Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCatastrophe Modeling" and "Changing Climate Conditions." The Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See "Reinsurance." Segment Realignment On June 10, 2014, the Company announced a realignment of its management team, effective July 1, 2014, that gave rise to a realignment of two of its three reportable business segments, as follows: The Company's International Insurance group, which had previously been included in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, was combined with the Company's previous Business Insurance segment to create a new Business and International Insurance segment. The Bond & Financial Products group, which comprised the remaining businesses in the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, now comprises the new Bond & Specialty Insurance segment. The Personal Insurance segment was not impacted by these changes. The realignment of segments described above was made to reflect the realignment of the Company's senior management responsibilities and the manner in which the Company's businesses have been managed starting July 1, 2014, and the aggregation of products and services based on the type of customer, how the business is marketed and the manner in which risks are underwritten. The following discussion of the Company's reportable business segments reflects the realigned segment reporting structure. Financial data for all prior periods presented was reclassified to be consistent with the 2014 presentation. BUSINESS AND INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE The Business and International Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance related services to its clients, primarily in the United States, as well as in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and throughout other parts of the world as a corporate member of Lloyd's. Business and International Insurance is organized as follows: Domestic Select Accounts provides small businesses with property and casualty products, including commercial multi-peril, commercial property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance. Middle Market provides mid-sized businesses with property and casualty products, including commercial multi-peril, commercial property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance, as well as risk management, claims handling and other services. Middle Market generally provides these products to mid-sized businesses through Commercial Accounts, as well as to targeted industries through Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services and Oil & Gas . Middle Market also provides mono-line umbrella and excess coverage insurance 5 Table of Contents through Excess Casualty and insurance coverages for foreign organizations with United States exposures through Global Partner Services . National Accounts provides large companies with casualty products and services, including workers' compensation, general liability and automobile liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products, on both a bundled and unbundled basis. National Accounts also includes the Company's commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers' compensation products and services to the involuntary market. First Party provides traditional and customized property insurance programs to large and mid-sized customers through National Property, insurance for goods in transit and movable objects, as well as builders' risk insurance, through Inland Marine , insurance for the marine transportation industry and related services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade, through Ocean Marine, and comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption coverages, through Boiler & Machinery . Specialized Distribution markets and underwrites its products to customers predominantly through brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents that manage customers' unique insurance requirements. Specialized Distribution provides insurance coverage for the commercial transportation industry, as well as commercial liability and commercial property policies for small, difficult to place specialty classes of commercial business primarily on an excess and surplus lines basis, through Northland, and tailored property and casualty programs on an admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements through National Programs . Specialized Distribution also serves small to medium-sized agricultural businesses, including farms, ranches, wineries and related operations, through Agribusiness . International International, through its operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, offers property and casualty insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, public services, and financial and professional services industry sectors. In addition, International markets personal lines and small commercial insurance business in Canada through The Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company (Dominion), which the Company acquired on November 1, 2013. International, through its Lloyd's syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, underwrites five principal businessesmarine, global property, accident & special risks, power & utilities and aviation. International also includes the Company's 49.5% ownership of the common stock of J. Malucelli Participaes em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. (JMalucelli), its joint venture in Brazil. JMalucelli is currently the market leader in surety in Brazil based on market share. JMalucelli commenced writing other property and casualty insurance business in 2012. The Company's investment in JMalucelli is accounted for using the equity method and is included in "other investments" on the consolidated balance sheet. In December 2014, the Company announced that its joint venture with JMalucelli in Brazil will acquire a majority interest in Cardinal Compaa de Seguros, a Colombian start-up surety provider. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2015, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Business and International Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain other runoff operations, which are collectively referred to as Business and International Insurance Other. 6 Table of Contents Selected Market and Product Information The following table sets forth the Business and International Insurance segment's net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see "Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "Product Lines," respectively. By market: Domestic: Select Accounts $ 2,707 $ 2,724 $ 2,775 18.5 % Middle Market 6,108 5,862 5,654 41.7 National Accounts 1,047 1,010 907 7.2 First Party 1,579 1,552 1,436 10.8 Specialized Distribution 1,074 1,085 1,100 7.3 Total Domestic 12,515 12,233 11,872 85.5 International 2,121 1,279 1,057 14.5 Total Business and International Insurance by market $ 14,636 $ 13,512 $ 12,929 100.0 % By product line: Domestic: Workers' compensation $ 3,794 $ 3,642 $ 3,400 25.9 % Commercial automobile 1,892 1,897 1,924 12.9 Commercial property 1,793 1,748 1,647 12.3 General liability 1,891 1,823 1,765 12.9 Commercial multi-peril 3,103 3,083 3,100 21.2 Other 42 40 36 0.3 Total Domestic 12,515 12,233 11,872 85.5 International 2,121 1,279 1,057 14.5 Total Business and International Insurance by product line $ 14,636 $ 13,512 $ 12,929 100.0 % Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution The Business and International Insurance segment distributes its products through approximately 11,400 independent agencies and brokers. Agencies and brokers are serviced by 133 field offices and three customer service centers. Business and International Insurance continues to make significant investments in enhanced technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with independent agencies and brokers. Business and International Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business and International Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's financial strength, staff experience and strategic fit with the Company's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business and International Insurance carefully monitors its performance. The majority of products offered in the United States are distributed through a common base of independent agents and brokers, many of whom also sell the Company's Personal Insurance products. Additionally, several operations may underwrite business with agents that specialize in servicing the needs of certain of the industries served by these operations. 7 Table of Contents Select Accounts is a leading provider of commercial property and casualty insurance products to small businesses in the U.S., generally with fewer than 50 employees, and sells these products through a large network of independent agents and brokers. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures. Each small business risk is independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of new small business risks at their desktop in an efficient manner that significantly reduces the time period between quoting a price on a new policy and issuing that policy. Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel. Select Accounts has established a strong marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided this network with defined underwriting policies, a broad array of products and competitive prices. In addition, the Company has established centralized service centers to help agents perform many service functions, in return for a fee. Middle Market sells a broad range of commercial property and casualty insurance products and services through a large network of independent agents and brokers, primarily targeting mid-sized businesses in the U.S. with 50 to 1,000 employees. The Company offers a full line of products to its Middle Market customers with an emphasis on guaranteed cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows Middle Market to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base. Within Middle Market, products and services are tailored to certain targeted industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claim, risk management or other insurance-related products and services. National Accounts sells a variety of casualty products and services to large companies in the U.S. through a network of national and regional brokers, primarily utilizing loss-sensitive products in connection with a large deductible or self-insured program and, to a lesser extent, a retrospectively rated or a guaranteed cost insurance policy. National Accounts also provides casualty products and services through retail brokers on an unbundled basis, using third-party administrators for insureds who utilize programs such as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. National Accounts provides insurance-related services, such as risk management services, claims administration, loss control and risk management information services, either in addition to, or in lieu of, pure risk coverage, and generated $251 million of fee income in 2014, excluding commercial residual market business. The commercial residual market business of National Accounts sells claims and policy management services to workers' compensation pools throughout the United States, and generated $132 million of fee income in 2014. National Accounts services approximately 34% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry. Workers' compensation accounted for approximately 76% of sales to National Accounts customers during 2014, based on direct written premiums and fees. First Party markets commercial property and casualty insurance products and services through a large network of agents and brokers to a wide customer base in the U.S. having specialized property and casualty coverage requirements. First Party provides traditional and customized property insurance programs to large and mid-sized customers, insurance for goods in transit and movable objects, builders' risk insurance, insurance for the marine transportation industry and related services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade. In addition, First Party provides comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption coverages. Specialized Distribution distributes admitted as well as excess and surplus lines property and casualty products predominantly through selected brokers, wholesale agents, program managers 8 Table of Contents and specialized retail agents, including on a brokerage and delegated authority underwriting basis. These brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents operate in certain markets in the U.S. that are not typically served by the Company's appointed retail agents, or they maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with agents or program managers on a brokerage basis, Specialized Distribution underwrites the business and sets the premium level. In working with agents or program managers with delegated underwriting authority, the agents produce and underwrite business subject to underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program. International distributes its products, principally through brokers, in each of the countries in which it operates. International also writes business at Lloyd's, where its products are distributed through Lloyd's wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd's worldwide licenses, the Business and International Insurance segment has access to international markets across the world. Pricing and Underwriting Business and International Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for particular industries, in conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The Company utilizes both standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues. A portion of business in this segment, particularly in National Accounts and Construction, is written with large deductible insurance policies. Under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, the Company is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. The Company is subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and is subject to credit risk until such reimbursement is made. At December 31, 2014, contractholder payables on unpaid losses within the deductible layer of large deductible policies and the associated receivables were each approximately $4.36 billion. Business and International Insurance also utilizes retrospectively rated policies for another portion of the business, primarily for workers' compensation coverage. Although the retrospectively rated feature of the policy substantially reduces insurance risk for the Company, it introduces additional credit risk to the Company. Premium receivables from holders of retrospectively rated policies totaled approximately $89 million at December 31, 2014. Significant collateral, primarily letters of credit and, to a lesser extent, cash collateral or trusts, is generally obtained for large deductible plans and/or retrospectively rated policies that provide for deferred collection of deductible recoveries and/or ultimate premiums. The amount of collateral requested is predicated upon the creditworthiness of the customer and the nature of the insured risks. Business and International Insurance continually monitors the credit exposure on individual accounts and the adequacy of collateral. For additional information concerning credit risk in certain of the Company's businesses, see "Item 1ARisk FactorsWe are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business and investment operations including reinsurance or structured settlements." Product Lines The Business and International Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages: Domestic Workers' Compensation. Provides coverage for employers for specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace injuries to employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death 9 Table of Contents benefits and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers, employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that focuses on the injured employee's early return to work and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers' compensation products: guaranteed-cost insurance products, in which policy premium charges are fixed for the period of coverage and do not vary as a result of the insured's loss experience; loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, in which fees or premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period; and service programs, which are generally sold to the Company's National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees rather than premiums for providing loss prevention, risk management, and claim and benefit administration services to organizations under service agreements. The Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant. Commercial Automobile. Provides coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties, property damage to an insured's vehicle and property damage to other vehicles and other property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business. Commercial Property. Provides coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment from a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes and other windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and financial loss due to business interruption resulting from covered property damage. For additional information on terrorism coverages, see "ReinsuranceCatastrophe ReinsuranceTerrorism Risk Insurance Program." Property also includes specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures. General Liability. Provides coverages for businesses against third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, including as a result of injuries sustained from products sold. Specialized liability policies may also include coverage for directors' and officers' liability arising in their official capacities, employment practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance. Commercial Multi-Peril. Provides a combination of the property and liability coverages described in the foregoing product line descriptions. International Provides coverage for auto and motor (similar to automobile coverage in the United States), personal property, employers' liability (similar to workers' compensation coverage in the United States), public and product liability (the equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability coverage), commercial property, surety, marine, aviation, personal accident and kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related liability, offshore energy, ports and terminals, fine art and 10 Table of Contents terrorism. Aviation provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space risks. Personal accident provides financial protection in the event of death or disablement due to accidental bodily injury, while kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap, hijack, illegal detention and extortion. While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the U.S. market, the different legal environments can make the product risks and coverage terms potentially very different from those the Company faces in the United States. Net Retention Policy Per Risk The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Business and International Insurance segment as of January 1, 2015. For third-party liability, Business and International Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $18.8 million per insured, per occurrence. For property exposures, Business and International Insurance generally limits its net retained amount per risk to $20.0 million per occurrence, after reinsurance. Business and International Insurance generally retains its workers' compensation exposures. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per-risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Business and International Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Business and International Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk. Geographic Distribution The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business and International Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2014: Domestic: California 11.1 % New York 7.4 Texas 6.7 Illinois 4.5 Pennsylvania 3.4 Florida 3.4 New Jersey 3.4 Massachusetts 3.0 All other domestic(1) 44.0 Total domestic 86.9 International: Canada 9.0 All other international(1) 4.1 Total international 13.1 Total Business and International Insurance 100.0 % (1) No other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of the Business and International Insurance segment's direct written premiums in 2014. 11 Table of Contents Competition The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other entities offering risk alternatives, such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition works within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for insurance products and the levels of coverage and service provided. A company's success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to profitably provide insurance and services, including claims handling and risk control, at prices and terms that retain existing customers and attract new customers. Domestic Competitors typically write Select Accounts business through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers and as direct writers. Both national and regional property and casualty insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally comprises lower-hazard, "Main Street" business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry practices and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on product offerings, service levels, ease of doing business and price. Competitors typically write Middle Market business through independent agents and brokers. Several of Middle Market's operations require unique combinations of industry knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and regional insurance companies. Companies compete based on product offerings, service levels, price and claim and loss prevention services. Efficiency through automation and rapid response time to agent, broker and customer needs is one key to success in this market. In the National Accounts market, competition is based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems and collateral requirements. National Accounts primarily competes with national property and casualty insurance companies, as well as with other underwriters of property and casualty insurance in the alternative risk transfer market, such as self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, and a variety of other risk-financing vehicles and mechanisms. The residual market division competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy management services. First Party and Specialized Distribution compete in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these businesses compete with national carriers with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Each of these businesses has regional structures that allow them to deliver personalized service and local knowledge to their customer base. Specialized agents and brokers, including wholesale agents and program managers, supplement this strategy. In all of these businesses, the competitive strategy typically is the application of focused industry knowledge to insurance and risk needs. International International competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Companies compete on the basis of price, product offerings and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and provides both property and casualty coverage for these markets. 12 Table of Contents At Lloyd's, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd's market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets where the Lloyd's operation writes business worldwide. Competition is again based on price, product and service. The Company focuses on lines it believes it can underwrite effectively and profitably with an emphasis on short-tail insurance lines. BOND & SPECIALTY INSURANCE The Bond & Specialty Insurance segment provides surety, crime, management and professional liability coverages and related risk management services to a wide range of primarily domestic customers, utilizing various degrees of financially-based underwriting approaches. The range of coverages includes performance, payment and commercial surety and fidelity bonds for construction and general commercial enterprises; management liability coverages for losses caused by the actual or alleged negligence or misconduct of directors and officers or employee dishonesty; employment practices liability coverages and fiduciary coverages for public corporations, private companies and not-for-profit organizations; professional liability coverage for actual or alleged errors and omissions committed in the course of professional conduct or practice for a variety of professionals including, among others, lawyers and design professionals; and professional and management liability, property, workers' compensation, auto and general liability and fidelity insurance for financial institutions. Selected Market and Product Information The following table sets forth Bond & Specialty Insurance net written premiums by product line for the periods indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the table, see "Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "Product Lines," respectively. Fidelity and surety $ 963 $ 918 $ 895 45.8 % General liability 961 934 859 45.7 Other 179 178 170 8.5 Total Bond & Specialty Insurance $ 2,103 $ 2,030 $ 1,924 100.0 % Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution Bond & Specialty Insurance distributes the vast majority of its products in the United States through approximately 6,000 of the same independent agencies and brokers that distribute the Business and International Insurance segment's products in the U.S. The Bond & Specialty Insurance segment, in conjunction with the Business and International Insurance segment, continues to make investments in enhanced technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers. Bond & Specialty Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Specialty Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, its ongoing performance is closely monitored. Pricing and Underwriting Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for specific accounts and industries, in conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The Company utilizes both standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues. 13 Table of Contents Product Lines The Bond & Specialty Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages: Fidelity and Surety. Provides fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured. Surety is generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other performance bonds. General Liability. Provides coverage for specialized liability exposures as described above in more detail in the "Business and International Insurance" section of this report. Other. Coverages include Property, Workers' Compensation, Commercial Automobile and Commercial Multi-Peril, which are described above in more detail in the "Business and International Insurance" section of this report. Net Retention Policy Per Risk The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment as of January 1, 2015. For third party liability, including but not limited to umbrella liability, professional liability, directors' and officers' liability, and employment practices liability, Bond & Specialty Insurance generally limits net retentions to $25.0 million per policy. For surety protection, where insured limits are often significant, Bond & Specialty Insurance generally retains up to $115.0 million probable maximum loss (PML) per principal but may retain higher amounts based on the type of obligation, credit quality and other credit risk factors. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Bond & Specialty Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk. Geographic Distribution The following table shows the geographic distribution of Bond & Specialty Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2014: California 10.5 % New York 7.8 Texas 7.4 Florida 5.3 Illinois 4.8 Pennsylvania 4.2 Massachusetts 3.3 All other(1) 56.7 Total 100.0 % (1) No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment's direct written premiums in 2014. 14 Table of Contents Competition The competitive landscape in which the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment operates is affected by many of the same factors described previously for the Business and International Insurance segment. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of business and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments. Bond & Specialty Insurance underwrites and markets its products to all sizes of businesses and other organizations, as well as individuals. The Company believes that its reputation for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships, as well as its ability to offer its customers a full range of products, provides Bond & Specialty Insurance an advantage over many of its competitors and enables it to compete effectively in a complex, dynamic marketplace. The Company believes that the ability of the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment to cross-sell its products to customers of the Business and International Insurance and Personal Insurance segments provides additional competitive advantages for the Company. PERSONAL INSURANCE The Company's Personal Insurance segment writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals' personal risks. The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages. Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information The following table sets forth net written premiums for the Personal Insurance segment's business by product line for the periods indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see "Product Lines." In addition, see "Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" for a discussion of distribution channels for Personal Insurance's product lines. By product line: Automobile $ 3,390 $ 3,370 $ 3,642 47.3 % Homeowners and Other 3,775 3,855 3,952 52.7 Total Personal Insurance $ 7,165 $ 7,225 $ 7,594 100.0 % Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution Personal Insurance products are distributed primarily through approximately 11,100 active independent agencies located throughout the United States, supported by personnel in nine sales regions. In addition, sales and service are provided to customers through five contact centers. While the principal markets for Personal Insurance products continue to be in states along the East Coast, California and Texas, the business continues to expand its geographic presence across the United States. See "Competition" below for a discussion of the Company's newest private passenger automobile product, Quantum Auto 2.0. In selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with the segment's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal Insurance carefully monitors its performance. Agents can access the Company's agency service portal for a number of resources including customer service, marketing and claims management. In addition, agencies can choose to shift the 15 Table of Contents ongoing service responsibility for Personal Insurance's customers to one of the Company's Customer Care Centers, where the Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of customer service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy changes. Approximately 1,600 agents take advantage of this service alternative, for which they generally pay a fee. Personal Insurance also distributes its products through additional channels, including corporations that make the company's product offerings available to their employees primarily through payroll deduction, consumer associations and affinity groups. Personal Insurance handles the sales and service for these programs either through a sponsoring independent agent or through the Company's contact center locations. In addition, since 1995, the Company has had a marketing agreement with GEICO to underwrite homeowners business for certain of their auto customers. In 2009, the Company began marketing its insurance products directly to consumers, largely through online channels. The investment in the direct-to-consumer initiative has generated growing but still modest premium volume for Personal Insurance in recent years, which was consistent with the Company's expectations. The direct-to-consumer initiative, while intended to enhance the Company's long-term ability to compete successfully in a consumer-driven marketplace, is expected to remain modest with respect to premium volume and remain unprofitable for a number of years as the Company continues to develop, test and evaluate this distribution channel. Pricing and Underwriting Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claim, actuarial and product development. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary data accumulated over many years is analyzed and Personal Insurance uses a variety of risk differentiation models to facilitate its pricing segmentation. The Company's product management area establishes underwriting guidelines integrated with its filed pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to effectively execute its risk selection and pricing processes. Pricing for personal automobile insurance is driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of automobile repairs, medical care and litigation of liability claims. Pricing in the homeowners business is driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of building supplies, labor and household possessions. In addition to the normal risks associated with any multiple peril coverage, the profitability and pricing of both homeowners and automobile insurance are affected by the incidence of natural disasters, particularly those related to weather and, for homeowners insurance, earthquakes. Insurers writing personal lines property and casualty policies may be unable to increase prices until some time after the costs associated with coverage have increased, primarily because of state insurance rate regulation. The pace at which an insurer can change rates in response to increased costs depends, in part, on whether the applicable state law requires prior approval of rate increases or notification to the regulator either before or after a rate change is imposed. In states with prior approval laws, rates must be approved by the regulator before being used by the insurer. In states having "file-and-use" laws, the insurer must file rate changes with the regulator, but does not need to wait for approval before using the new rates. A "use-and-file" law requires an insurer to file rates within a period of time after the insurer begins using the new rate. Approximately one-half of the states require prior approval of most rate changes. In addition, changes to methods of marketing and underwriting in some jurisdictions are subject to state-imposed restrictions, which can make it more difficult for an insurer to significantly manage catastrophe exposures. The Company's ability or willingness to raise prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the competitive environment, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. The 16 Table of Contents Company also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write in some states for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other commercial or personal underwriting opportunities. In choosing to write business in some states, the Company also considers the costs and benefits of those states' residual markets and guaranty funds, as well as other property and casualty business the Company writes in those states. Product Lines The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners and other insurance sold to individuals. Personal Insurance had approximately 6.2 million active policies (e.g., policies-in-force) at December 31, 2014. The Personal Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages: Personal Automobile provides coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, uninsured motorist protection, and for physical damage to an insured's own vehicle from collision, fire, flood, hail and theft. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage. Homeowners and Other provides protection against losses to dwellings and contents from a variety of perils (excluding flooding) as well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and tenants, and rental properties. The Company also writes coverage for boats and yachts and valuable personal items such as jewelry, and also writes coverages for umbrella liability, identity fraud, and weddings and special events. Net Retention Policy Per Risk The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Personal Insurance segment as of January 1, 2015. Personal Insurance generally retains its primary personal auto exposures in their entirety. For personal property insurance, there is an $8.0 million maximum retention per risk. Personal Insurance issues umbrella policies up to a maximum limit of $10.0 million per risk. Personal Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk. 17 Table of Contents Geographic Distribution The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2014: New York 15.0 % Texas(1) 8.2 Pennsylvania 7.3 California 6.1 New Jersey 5.1 Georgia 4.7 Florida 4.5 Connecticut 4.4 Virginia 4.3 Maryland 3.4 Massachusetts 3.1 All others(2) 33.9 Total 100.0 % (1) The percentage for Texas includes business written by the Company through a fronting agreement with another insurer. (2) No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the Personal Insurance segment's direct written premiums in 2014. Competition Although national companies write the majority of this business, Personal Insurance also faces competition from many regional and hundreds of local companies. Personal Insurance primarily competes based on breadth of product offerings, price, service (including claims handling), ease of doing business, stability of the insurer and name recognition. Personal Insurance competes for business within each independent agency since these agencies also offer policies of competing companies. At the agency level, competition is primarily based on price, service (including claims handling), the level of automation and the development of long-term relationships with individual agents. In recent years, most independent personal insurance agents have begun utilizing price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Because the use of this technology facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. Personal Insurance also competes with insurance companies that use exclusive agents or salaried employees to sell their products, as well as those that employ direct marketing strategies. See "Item 1ARisk FactorsThe intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability." The Agency Automobile line of business has been negatively impacted by various factors, including the use of price comparison technology by agents and brokers as discussed above. The Company's actions in response to these factors have included, among other things, the reduction of claim adjustment and other insurance expenses, with the majority of the impact in the Agency Automobile line of business. At December 31, 2014, these actions to reduce costs have resulted in an expected annual decrease of $140 million in pre-tax expenses in 2015 when compared with expense levels prior to their implementation. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company launched its newest private passenger automobile product, Quantum Auto 2.0. This product, in addition to incorporating 18 Table of Contents the cost savings described above, has a lower base commission rate than the Company's existing Quantum Auto 1.0 product. These changes in cost structure enabled the Company to price Quantum Auto 2.0 more competitively while maintaining expected returns at appropriate levels. By December 31, 2014, the Company offered Quantum Auto 2.0 in approximately 90% of the states where it plans to offer the product, and the Company currently expects that, by the end of 2015, it will offer the product in all of those states. The Company intends that, in approved states, all new accounts will be written using Quantum Auto 2.0. In addition, Quantum Auto 2.0 is available to agents at their discretion for existing accounts. CLAIMS MANAGEMENT The Company's claim functions are managed through its Claims Services organization, with locations in the United States and in the countries where it does business. With more than 11,000 employees, Claims Services employs a group of professionals with diverse skills, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys, investigators, engineers, accountants, system specialists and training, management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as investigators, attorneys and, in the rare circumstances when necessary, independent adjusters and appraisers, are available for use as appropriate. U.S. field claim management teams located in 21 claim centers and 53 satellite and specialty-only offices in 45 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim characteristics unique to the businesses within the Company's business segments. Claim teams with specialized skills, required licenses, resources and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of those businesses, with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment. The Company's home office operations provide additional support in the form of workflow design, quality management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial reporting and control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits the Company to maintain the economies of scale of a large, established company while retaining the agility to respond promptly to the needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims management for International, while generally provided locally by staff in the respective international locations due to local knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, is also managed by the Company's Claims Services organization in the U.S. to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices. An integral part of the Company's strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts who investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This staff also has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are reported to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies. Claims Services uses technology, management information and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results in order to evaluate and improve its claims management performance. The Company's claims management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company continually monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a disciplined approach to continual improvement. The Company operates a state-of-the-art claims training facility which offers hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In recent years, the Company has invested significant additional resources in many of its claim handling operations and routinely monitors the effect of those investments to ensure a consistent optimization among outcomes, cost and service. Claims Services' catastrophe response strategy is to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel, enabling it to minimize reliance on independent adjusters and appraisers. The 19 Table of Contents Company has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing employees who can be deployed on short notice in the event of a catastrophe that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In recent years, these internal resources were successfully deployed to respond to a record number of catastrophe claims. REINSURANCE The Company reinsures a portion of the risks it underwrites in order to manage its exposure to losses and to protect its capital. The Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of these risks and pays premiums based upon the risk and exposure of the policies subject to such reinsurance. Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools and associations, and is predominantly subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices, the price of their product offerings and the value of collateral provided. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk to a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. For additional information concerning reinsurance, see note 5 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements and "Item 1ARisk Factors." The Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to large property and casualty losses, including: facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy and each policy reinsured is separately negotiated; quota share reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for each policy covered on a pro rata basis; treaty reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and catastrophe reinsurance, in which the Company is indemnified for an agreed upon amount of contractual loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to losses resulting from a catastrophic event. For a description of reinsurance-related litigation, see note 16 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements. Included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to structured settlements, which are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the amount due from the life insurance company related to the structured settlement is included in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as a reinsurance recoverable and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. If it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, the Company would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. In the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments. 20 Table of Contents Catastrophe Reinsurance Catastrophes can be caused by a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. Catastrophes can also result from terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions and infrastructure failures. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes and earthquakes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those areas that are heavily populated. The Company generally seeks to manage its exposure to catastrophes through individual risk selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. The Company utilizes corporate catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties with unaffiliated reinsurers to manage its exposure to losses resulting from catastrophes and to protect its capital. In addition to the coverage provided under these treaties, the Company also utilizes catastrophe bonds to protect against hurricane losses in the Northeastern United States, and a Northeast catastrophe reinsurance treaty to protect against losses resulting from weather-related and earthquake catastrophes in the Northeastern United States. The Company also utilizes excess-of-loss treaties to protect against earthquake losses up to a certain threshold in the Business and International Insurance segment (for certain markets) and for the Personal Insurance segment, and several reinsurance treaties specific to its international operations. Corporate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. For the period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, the Company has entered into a reinsurance agreement that covers the accumulation of certain property losses arising from one or multiple occurrences: 75% ($1.50 billion) of qualifying losses covered by the treaty and 25% ($500 million) of qualifying losses retained by the Company part of $2.0 billion excess of $3.0 billion. Qualifying losses for each occurrence are after a $100 million deductible. The treaty covers all of the Company's exposures in the United States and Canada and their territories and possessions, the Caribbean Islands, Mexico and all waters contiguous thereto. The treaty only provides coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. This treaty replaced the Company's General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty, which was cancelled on a cut-off basis effective December 31, 2014, and the General Catastrophe Aggregate Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty, which expired on December 31, 2014. Catastrophe Bonds. The Company has catastrophe protection through two indemnity reinsurance agreements with Long Point Re III Ltd. (Long Point Re III), an independent Cayman Islands company licensed as a Class B insurer in the Cayman Islands. The reinsurance agreements expire in June 2015 and May 2016, respectively, and provide coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United States. Both reinsurance agreements meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with each reinsurance agreement, Long Point Re III issued notes (generally referred to as "catastrophe bonds") to investors in an amount equal to the full coverage provided under the respective reinsurance agreement as described below. On June 6, 2012, Long Point Re III completed an offering to unrelated investors of $250 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with the offering, the Company and Long Point Re III entered into a three-year reinsurance agreement providing coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United States. The proceeds of the offering were deposited in a reinsurance trust account. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage are reset annually to maintain modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss on the respective catastrophe bonds equal to the initial modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage were reset in April 2014. Accordingly, 21 Table of Contents for the period May 1, 2014 through June 6, 2015, the Company will be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the reinsurance agreement if the losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $1.772 billion. The full $250 million coverage amount is available on a proportional basis until covered losses reach a maximum $2.331 billion. On May 16, 2013, Long Point Re III completed a second offering to unrelated investors of $300 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with the offering, the Company and Long Point Re III entered into a three-year reinsurance agreement providing for coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United States. Similar to the first arrangement with Long Point Re III, the proceeds of the offering were deposited in a reinsurance trust account. The attachment point and maximum limit are reset annually, with the ability of the Company to adjust the expected loss of the coverage layer (the difference between the attachment point and the maximum limit) within a predetermined range. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage were reset in April 2014. Accordingly, for the period May 17, 2014 through May 16, 2015, the Company will be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the reinsurance agreement if the losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $1.222 billion. The full $300 million coverage amount is available on a proportional basis until covered losses reach a maximum $1.772 billion. The business covered by these reinsurance agreements is a subset of the Company's overall insurance portfolio, comprising property insurance and related coverages spread across the following geographic locations: Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and Vermont. The coverage under both reinsurance agreements is limited to specified property coverage written in the Company's Personal Insurance segment, and within Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts in the Company's Business and International Insurance segment. Under the terms of both reinsurance agreements, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Long Point Re III for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable to the Company under both reinsurance agreements with respect to any covered event cannot exceed the Company's actual losses from such event. The principal amount of the respective catastrophe bond will be reduced by any amounts paid to the Company under the respective reinsurance agreement. As with any reinsurance agreement, there is credit risk associated with collecting amounts due from reinsurers. With regard to Long Point Re III, the credit risk is mitigated by reinsurance trust accounts that have been funded by Long Point Re III with money market funds that invest solely in direct government obligations and obligations backed by the U.S. government with maturities of no more than 13 months. The money market funds must have a principal stability rating of at least AAAm by Standard & Poor's on the issuance date of the bonds and thereafter must be rated by Standard & Poor's. Other permissible investments include money market funds which invest in repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by direct government obligations and obligations of any agency backed by the U.S. government with terms of no more than 397 calendar days, and cash. At the time the agreements were entered into with Long Point Re III, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable interest entities or VIEs. Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through voting rights or similar rights to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity's operations, or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE's activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's expected residual returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company's financial statements. 22 Table of Contents As a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreements with Long Point Re III, the Company concluded that it was a VIE because the conditions described in items (a) and (b) above were present. However, while Long Point Re III was determined to be a VIE, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in the entity, as the variability in its results, caused by the reinsurance agreements, is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by Long Point Re III and residual amounts earned by it, if any, are expected to be absorbed by the equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Long Point Re III). Accordingly, the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III and does not consolidate that entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally, because the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III, the consolidation of that entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely. The Company has not incurred any losses that have resulted or are expected to result in a recovery under the Long Point Re III agreements since their inception. Northeast General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty. In addition to its Corporate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty and its multi-year catastrophe bonds, the Company also is party to a northeast general catastrophe reinsurance treaty which provides up to $850 million of coverage, subject to a $2.25 billion retention, for certain losses arising from hurricanes, tornados, hail storms, earthquakes and winter storm or freeze losses from Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015. Losses from a covered event (occurring over several days) anywhere in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico and waters contiguous thereto may be used to satisfy the retention. Recoveries under the catastrophe bonds (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to this treaty. Business and International Insurance Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. For the period July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015, the Company has entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss treaty that provides for up to $150 million part of $165 million of coverage, subject to a $60 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake, including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by Technology, Public Sector Services and Commercial Accounts in the Company's Business and International Insurance segment. Personal Insurance Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. For the period January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015, the Company has entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss treaty that provides for up to $200 million of coverage, subject to a $150 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake, including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by the Company's Personal Insurance segment. Canadian Property Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Contract. This contract, effective for the period July 1, 2014 through and including June 30, 2015, covers the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one occurrence on business written by the Company's Canadian businesses. The treaty covers all property written by the Company's Canadian businesses for Canadian insureds, including, but not limited to, habitational property, commercial property, inland marine, ocean marine and auto physical damages exposures, with respect to risks located worldwide, written for Canadian insureds. The treaty provides coverage for 100% of loss retained in excess of C$50 million (US$43 million at December 31, 2014) up to C$900 million (US$775 million at December 31, 2014). Other International Reinsurance Treaties. For other business underwritten in Canada, as well as for business written in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and in the Company's operations at Lloyd's, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more commensurate with the size of the respective local balance sheet. The Company conducts an ongoing review of its risk and catastrophe coverages and makes changes as it deems appropriate. 23 Table of Contents Terrorism Risk Insurance Program. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program is a Federal program administered by the Department of the Treasury that provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses resulting from certified acts of terrorism. In January 2015, the program was reauthorized through December 31, 2020. For a further description of the program, including the Company's estimated deductible under the program in 2015, see note 5 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements and "Item 1ARisk FactorsCatastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance." CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. The Company continually refines its reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process that includes review of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience. The Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are also reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. For additional information on the process of estimating reserves and a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates." The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the "Critical Accounting Estimates" section of "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process. The Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Company's reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsbestos Claims and Litigation," and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." Discounting The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long-term disability and annuity claim payments, primarily arising from workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, were discounted to the present value of estimated future payments using a rate of 5% at both December 31, 2014 and 2013. These discounted reserves totaled $2.01 billion and $2.21 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 24 Table of Contents Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table The table that follows sets forth the year-end reserves from 2004 through 2014 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for 2004 through 2012 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Dominion in November 2013. The table includes Dominion's reserves beginning at December 31, 2013. The data in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly reported by the insurance industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 2004 to 2014 year-end reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves. For instance, the cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that year-end have changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency or redundancy for a year relates only to reserves at that year-end and those amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the original reserves at the end of 2004 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2008 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of the actual payment of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiency for 2004 and would also be reflected as a reduction in the cumulative redundancies in each of the years 2005 to 2007 shown in the accompanying table. Various factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative deficiency shown in the table for 2004 arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the post-1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsbestos Claims and Litigation," and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." General conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future. Other factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example, reserves for long-term disability and annuity claim payments (tabular reserves), primarily arising from workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, are discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers' compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also, a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business, increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or redundancies on the Company's earnings but are not reflected in the table. 25 Table of Contents Because of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table. Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 $ 40,941 $ 40,255 $ 40,919 $ 40,634 $ 41,585 $ 41,036 Cumulative amounts paid as of One year later 8,871 8,632 7,417 8,146 7,519 7,748 7,653 8,326 8,416 8,099 Two years later 14,666 13,837 13,181 12,798 12,454 12,374 12,567 13,447 13,452 Three years later 18,733 18,466 16,545 16,264 15,668 15,708 16,081 17,049 Four years later 22,514 21,025 19,113 18,524 18,053 18,126 18,634 Five years later 24,572 22,992 20,820 20,244 19,824 19,957 Six years later 26,189 24,423 22,205 21,609 21,319 Seven years later 27,469 25,616 23,381 22,869 Eight years later 28,557 26,675 24,534 Nine years later 29,543 27,741 Ten years later 30,570 Reserves re-estimated as of One year later 41,706 42,466 42,172 41,373 39,863 39,524 39,413 39,845 39,690 40,628 Two years later 42,565 42,311 40,837 39,925 38,640 38,421 38,393 38,964 38,931 Three years later 42,940 41,692 39,739 38,842 37,613 37,539 37,576 38,402 Four years later 43,148 40,855 38,734 38,223 36,892 36,889 37,179 Five years later 42,655 40,026 38,409 37,716 36,361 36,605 Six years later 42,068 39,849 38,134 37,323 36,240 Seven years later 42,019 39,694 37,858 37,356 Eight years later 41,987 39,518 37,977 Nine years later 41,942 39,705 Ten years later 42,142 Cumulative deficiency (redundancy) 696 (3,190 ) (4,867 ) (5,742 ) (5,072 ) (4,336 ) (3,076 ) (2,517 ) (1,703 ) (957 ) Gross liabilityend of year $ 59,438 $ 61,461 $ 59,677 $ 58,094 $ 55,121 $ 53,529 $ 51,537 $ 51,353 $ 50,888 $ 50,865 $ 49,824 Reinsurance recoverables 17,992 18,566 16,833 14,996 13,809 12,588 11,282 10,434 10,254 9,280 8,788 Net liabilityend of year $ 41,446 $ 42,895 $ 42,844 $ 43,098 $ 41,312 $ 40,941 $ 40,255 $ 40,919 $ 40,634 $ 41,585 $ 41,036 Gross re-estimated liability-latest $ 59,868 $ 57,503 $ 53,285 $ 50,896 $ 48,407 $ 47,705 $ 47,436 $ 48,152 $ 49,255 $ 49,814 Re-estimated reinsurance recoverables-latest 17,726 17,798 15,308 13,540 12,167 11,100 10,257 9,750 10,324 9,186 Net re-estimated liability-latest $ 42,142 $ 39,705 $ 37,977 $ 37,356 $ 36,240 $ 36,605 $ 37,179 $ 38,402 $ 38,931 $ 40,628 Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy) $ 430 $ (3,958 ) $ (6,392 ) $ (7,198 ) $ (6,714 ) $ (5,824 ) $ (4,101 ) $ (3,201 ) $ (1,633 ) $ (1,051 ) For years prior to 2013, the table excludes reserves of Dominion, which were acquired by the Company on November 1, 2013. Accordingly, the reserve development for years prior to 2013 does not include reserve development recorded by Dominion. At December 31, 2013, Dominion's gross reserves were $2,110 million, and net reserves were $1,779 million. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.)-based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses. 26 Table of Contents The gross and net cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by calendar year as set forth in the table above includes the following impact of unfavorable prior year reserve development related to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions: Gross $ 2,361 $ 1,527 $ 1,330 $ 1,331 $ 1,261 $ 1,076 $ 814 $ 619 $ 448 $ 258 Net $ 2,172 $ 1,341 $ 1,185 $ 1,185 $ 1,115 $ 930 $ 790 $ 615 $ 440 $ 250 Gross $ 867 $ 850 $ 742 $ 560 $ 475 $ 390 $ 345 $ 265 $ 166 $ 94 Net $ 843 $ 813 $ 693 $ 508 $ 423 $ 353 $ 318 $ 242 $ 152 $ 87 Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis At December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $29 million higher, $17 million higher and $22 million lower, respectively, than those reported in the Company's respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves). The differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items: (1) fees associated with billing of required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting. Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other liabilities as contra-liabilities rather than in loss reserves. Asbestos and Environmental Claims Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Company's Special Liability Group, a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsbestos Claims and Litigation" and "Environmental Claims and Litigation." INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS Most of the Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool's statutory capital and surplus rather than just on its own statutory capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses. 27 Table of Contents RATINGS Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Company's competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies typically issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings which reflect the rating agency's assessment of an insurer's ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders, and debt ratings, which reflect the rating agency's assessment of a company's prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in connection with the setting of interest rates and terms for a company's short- and long-term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company's overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company's website and from the agencies. A downgrade in one or more of the Company's claims-paying ratings could negatively impact the Company's business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its products may be reduced, particularly because some customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with it. Additionally, a downgrade in one or more of the Company's debt ratings could adversely impact the Company's ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in the syndicated bank loan market, and/or result in higher financing costs. For example, downgrades in the Company's debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Company's revolving credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 150 basis points, depending on the Company's debt ratings), the Company's commercial paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities. See "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the Company's revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company considers the level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of the Company's liquidity requirements. The Company currently believes that a one- to two-notch downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs. In addition, the Company considers the impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases. ClaimsPaying Ratings The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Insurance Company of Canada, The Dominion of Canada 28 Table of Contents General Insurance Company and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as of February 12, 2015. The table presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale. Travelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b) A++ (1 st of 16 ) Aa2 (3 rd of 21 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) Travelers C&S Co. of America A++ (1 st of 16 ) Aa2 (3 rd of 21 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. A (4 th of 16 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts A (3 rd of 16 ) Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. A++ (1 st of 16 ) Aa2 (3 rd of 21 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) Travelers Insurance Company of Canada A++ (1 st of 16 ) AA (4 th of 21 ) The Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company A (3 rd of 16 ) Travelers Insurance Company Limited A (3 rd of 16 ) AA (3 rd of 21 ) (a) The Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company, Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, The Travelers Casualty Company, St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, Travelers Constitution State Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company. (b) The following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company, Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company. Debt Ratings The following table summarizes the current debt, trust preferred securities and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of February 12, 2015. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale. Senior debt a+ (5 th of 22 ) A2 (6 th of 21 ) A (6 th of 22 ) A (6 th of 22 ) Subordinated debt a (7 th of 22 ) A3 (7 th of 21 ) A (7 th of 22 ) BBB+ (8 th of 22 ) Junior subordinated debt bbb+ (8 th of 22 ) A3 (7 th of 21 ) BBB+ (8 th of 22 ) BBB+ (8 th of 22 ) Trust preferred securities bbb+ (8 th of 22 ) A3 (7 th of 21 ) BBB+ (8 th of 22 ) BBB+ (8 th of 22 ) Commercial paper AMB-1 (2 nd of 6 ) P-1 (1 st of 4 ) A-1 (2 nd of 10 ) F-1 (2 nd of 8 ) 29 Table of Contents Rating Agency Actions The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from February 13, 2014 (the date on which the Company filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013), through February 12, 2015: On May 23, 2014, A.M. Best upgraded the financial strength ratings to "A++" from "A+" and the issuer credit ratings to "aa+" from "aa" of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool as well as Travelers C&S Co. of America, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. and Travelers Insurance Company of Canada. Concurrently, A.M. Best upgraded the issuer credit ratings and senior debt ratings to "a+" from "a" of TRV and its two wholly-owned downstream holding companies, Travelers Property Casualty Corp. and Travelers Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. The outlook for the above ratings has been revised to stable from positive. A.M. Best also affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" and issuer credit rating "a+" of The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, and the financial strength rating of "A" and issuer credit rating of "a" of First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. The outlook for these ratings is stable. On May 23, 2014, A.M. Best assigned a financial strength rating of "A" and an issuer credit rating of "a" to The Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company, which the Company acquired in November 2013. The outlook assigned to all ratings is stable. On June 13, 2014, S&P affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable. On August 14, 2014, Moody's affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable. On August 26, 2014, Fitch affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable. On November 26, 2014, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" and the issuer credit rating of "a+" for Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook for both ratings is stable. INVESTMENT OPERATIONS The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid, taxable U.S. government, tax-exempt U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and the Company's investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy its insurance and debt obligations. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Company's fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company's insurance reserves. The Company's management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio, including its use of Treasury futures at times, has produced a duration that is less than the estimated duration of the Company's net insurance liabilities. The substantial amount by which the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Company's ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities. The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships and joint ventures. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity. See note 3 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's investment portfolio. 30 Table of Contents REGULATION U.S. State and Federal Regulation TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to transact insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The extent of regulation varies, but generally derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance in each state. The regulation, supervision and administration relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and claims practices. In addition, many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and annual basis. State insurance regulation continues to evolve in response to the changing economic and business environment as well as efforts by regulators internationally to develop a consistent approach to regulations. While the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act established a Federal Insurance Office (the FIO) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the FIO has limited regulatory authority, it has been active in the discussions to develop international regulatory standards for the insurance industry. In response to these international efforts, the state insurance regulators, through the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, are working with the Federal Reserve and FIO to consider and develop changes to the U.S. regulatory framework. These changes are evidenced by the recent incorporation of supervisory colleges into the U.S. regulatory framework. A supervisory college is a forum of the regulators having jurisdictional authority over a holding company's various insurance subsidiaries, including foreign insurance subsidiaries, convened to meet with the insurer's executive management, to evaluate the insurer from both a group-wide and legal-entity basis. Some of the items evaluated during the colleges include the insurer's business strategies, enterprise risk management and corporate governance. The state of Connecticut is the lead regulator for TRV and conducts the supervisory colleges for the Company. Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries. TRV's principal domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Connecticut. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend from an insurance subsidiary that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurance subsidiary's statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurance subsidiary's net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices. The insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Rate and Rule Approvals. TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and rule approvals. The applicable laws and regulations are used by 31 Table of Contents states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An insurer's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements. Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies. Several states have laws and regulations which may impact the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non-renew certain policies only for certain specified reasons. Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that establish second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury. TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers' compensation, automobile insurance, property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage in the voluntary market. Assessments may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, various workers' compensation related funds (e.g., the New York Special Disability Fund), North Carolina Beach Plan, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses," such as the New York Special Disability Fund. For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory pooling and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see "Item 1ARisk Factors." Insurance Regulatory Information System. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year-end data. These ratios assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. Based on preliminary 2014 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company for its lead domestic insurance subsidiaries, The Travelers Indemnity Company and St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company had 32 Table of Contents results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of their investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries. In 2013, The Travelers Indemnity Company and St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of their investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries. Management does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2014 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required. Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements. The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies, which determines minimum capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. The Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to these NAIC RBC requirements based on laws that have been adopted by individual states. These requirements subject insurers having policyholders' surplus less than that required by the RBC calculation to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. Each of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries had policyholders' surplus at December 31, 2014 significantly above the level at which any RBC regulatory action would occur. While there is currently no group regulatory capital requirement in the United States, a comparison of an insurer's policyholders' surplus on a combined basis to the legal entity NAIC RBC requirements on a combined basis can provide useful information regarding an insurance group's overall capital adequacy in the U.S. The amount of policyholders' surplus held by the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 determined on a combined basis significantly exceeded the level at which the subsidiaries would be subject to RBC regulatory action (company action level) on a combined basis at that date. The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital above the RBC requirement. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. Investment Regulation. Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2014, the Company was in compliance with these laws and regulations. International Regulation TRV's insurance subsidiaries based in Canada and the Canadian branch of one of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act. These Canadian subsidiaries and the Canadian branch are also subject to provincial insurance legislation which regulates pricing, underwriting, coverage and claim conduct, in varying degrees by province and by product line. TRV's insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom are regulated by two regulatory bodies, The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The PRA's primary objective is to promote the safety and soundness of insurers for the protection of policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the UK financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. TRV's insurance operations in the Republic of 33 Table of Contents Ireland are conducted through the Irish branch of Travelers Insurance Company Limited which is regulated by the Insurance Supervision Departments of the Central Bank of Ireland (as to conduct) and also by the PRA. TRV's managing agency (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyd's syndicate (Travelers Syndicate 5000) is also regulated by the PRA and the FCA, which have delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's. Travelers Syndicate 5000 is able to write business in over 75 jurisdictions throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international licenses. In each such jurisdiction, the policies written by Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd., as part of Lloyd's, are subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that jurisdiction. Travelers Underwriting Agency Limited, which as an insurance intermediary is regulated by the FCA, produces insurance business for Travelers Syndicate 5000. A TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, has a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. A TRV subsidiary, TCI Global Services, Inc., has a liaison office in India. Insurance business in India is regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. TRV has a 49.5% investment in JMalucelli, a joint venture holding company in Brazil. JMalucelli's subsidiaries operate in the insurance and reinsurance business in Brazil and are regulated by the Superintendencia de Seguros Privados. Regulators in these jurisdictions require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on, among other things, the type and amount of insurance policies in force. Each of the Company's foreign insurance subsidiaries had capital significantly above their respective regulatory requirements at December 31, 2014. Insurance Holding Company Statutes As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries' states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws, require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions. Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control. Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state. The laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition. Any transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV's insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business. Two of TRV's insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd's are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the Financial 34 Table of Contents Services Act of 2012, including approval of the PRA and FCA. Some of TRV's other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. JMalucelli and its subsidiaries are subject to change of control and other share transfer restrictions and requirements in insurance laws and regulations in Brazil, mainly in Decree 73/1966 and CNSP Resolution no. 166/2007, which may include the need for prior approval of the insurance regulator, Superintendencia de Seguros Privados. These requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV's shareholders. Regulatory Developments For a discussion of domestic and international regulatory developments, see "Item 1ARisk Factors" including "Changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results" and "New regulations outside of the United States, including in the European Union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth." ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of the Company's operations. It also requires the Company to manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the Company's stakeholders. This approach to Company-wide risk evaluation and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks. Effective ERM also includes the determination of the Company's risk capital needs, which takes into account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in addition to economic and other factors. ERM at the Company is an integral part of its business operations. All corporate leaders and the board of directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves risk-based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives. The Company uses various methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. These analyses and methods are used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions as part of managing the Company's exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. The Company also utilizes proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes to evaluate capital adequacy. These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Company's ERM process and further support the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives. In addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company's operations, key internal risk management functions include, among others, the Management and Operating Committees (comprised of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Business Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy 35 Table of Contents group and the Enterprise Underwriting group. A senior executive serves as Chief Risk Officer and oversees the ERM process. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company's overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee of the board of directors, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Company's insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Company's ERM program. The Company's ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk-based culture within the Company that focuses on value creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the Company's significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in "Item 1ARisk Factors," "