Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, managements observation of trends in the industry, information provided by our clients and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our consolidated financial statements. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and assumptions or the judgments affecting the application of those estimates and assumptions since the filing of our Prospectus9. Our critical accounting policies are described in the Prospectus and include: - Revenue Recognition - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts - Long-Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill - Acquisition Accounting - Income Taxes - Stock-Based Compensation Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 The following table sets forth revenues (in thousands) and changes in revenues for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, Percentage 2010 2009 Change Revenues: Software licenses $ 5,589 $ 5,820 -4 % Maintenance 18,019 15,540 16 % Professional services 5,389 5,196 4 % Software-enabled services 49,177 37,166 32 % Total revenues $ 78,174 $ 63,722 23 % The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues represented by each of the following sources of revenues for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Revenues: Software licenses 7 % 9 % Maintenance 23 % 25 % Professional services 7 % 8 % Software-enabled services 63 % 58 % Total revenues 100 % 100 % Revenues Our revenues consist primarily of software-enabled services and maintenance revenues, and, to a lesser degree, software license and professional services revenues. As a general matter, our software license and professional services revenues tend to fluctuate based on the number of new licensing clients, while fluctuations in our software-enabled services revenues are 12 Table of Contents attributable to the number of new software-enabled services clients as well as the number of outsourced transactions provided to our existing clients and total assets under management in our clients portfolios. Maintenance revenues vary based on the rate by which we add or lose maintenance clients over time and, to a lesser extent, on the annual increases in maintenance fees, which are generally tied to the consumer price index. Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2010 were $78.2 million compared to $63.7 million for the same period in 2009. The revenue increase of $14.5 million, or 23%, was primarily a result of revenues from products and services that we acquired through our acquisitions of Evare in March 2009, MAXIMIS in May 2009, TNR in November 2009, Tradeware in December 2009, and GIPS in February 2010, which added $10.9 million in revenues in the aggregate and a $1.0 million increase in revenues for businesses and products that we have owned for at least 12 months, or organic revenues. The favorable impact from foreign currency translation accounted for $2.6 million of the increase, resulting from the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to currencies such as the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Australian dollar and the euro. Software Licenses . Software license revenues were $5.6 million and $5.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in software license revenues of $0.2 million was primarily due to a decrease of $0.9 million in organic software license revenues, partially offset by revenues from acquisitions, which contributed $0.6 million, and a favorable impact from foreign currency translation of $0.1 million. Software license revenues will vary depending on the timing, size and nature of our license transactions. For example, the average size of our software license transactions and the number of large transactions may fluctuate on a period-to-period basis. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, the average size and number of perpetual license transactions was consistent with those for the three months ended March 31, 2009, while revenues from term licenses decreased from the prior year period. Additionally, software license revenues will vary among the various products that we offer, due to differences such as the timing of new releases and variances in economic conditions affecting opportunities in the vertical markets served by such products. Maintenance . Maintenance revenues were $18.0 million and $15.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in maintenance revenues of $2.5 million, or 16%, was primarily due to revenue from acquisitions, which contributed $2.7 million in the aggregate, and a favorable impact from foreign currency translation of $0.3 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in organic maintenance revenues of $0.5 million. We typically provide maintenance services under one-year renewable contracts that provide for an annual increase in fees, which are generally tied to the percentage change in the consumer price index. Future maintenance revenue growth is dependent on our ability to retain existing clients, add new license clients, and increase average maintenance fees. Professional Services . Professional services revenues were $5.4 million and $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase of $0.2 million was primarily due to revenues from acquisitions, which contributed $0.8 million in the aggregate, and a favorable impact from foreign currency translation of $0.2 million, partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million in organic professional services revenues. Our overall software license revenue levels and market demand for professional services will continue to have an effect on our professional services revenues. Software-Enabled Services . Software-enabled services revenues were $49.2 million and $37.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in software-enabled services revenues of $12.0 million, or 32%, was primarily due to revenue from acquisitions, which contributed $6.7 million, an increase of $3.3 million in organic software-enabled services revenues and a favorable impact from foreign currency translation of $2.0 million. Future software-enabled services revenue growth is dependent on our ability to retain existing clients, add new clients and increase average fees. Cost of Revenues The total cost of revenues was $39.2 million and $33.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The gross margin was 50% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to 48% for the comparable period in 2009. Our costs of revenues increased by $6.1 million, or 18%, primarily as a result of acquisitions, which added costs of revenues of $5.4 million and an increase in costs of $1.3 million related to foreign currency translation, partially offset by a reduction of $0.6 million in costs to support organic revenue growth. Cost of Software Licenses . Cost of software license revenues consists primarily of amortization expense of completed technology, royalties, third-party software, and the costs of product media, packaging and documentation. The cost of software license revenues was $1.9 million and $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in cost of software licenses was primarily due to a reduction of $0.2 million in amortization 13 Table of Contents expense under the percent of cash flows method, as a lower percentage of current license revenues was deemed associated with technology that existed at the date of the Transaction, partially offset by amortization expense of $0.1 million related to acquisitions. Cost of software license revenues as a percentage of such revenues was 34% and 35% for the 2010 and 2009 periods, respectively. Cost of Maintenance . Cost of maintenance revenues consists primarily of technical client support, costs associated with the distribution of products and regulatory updates and amortization of intangible assets. The cost of maintenance revenues was $8.0 million and $6.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in cost of maintenance revenues of $1.5 million, or 24%, was primarily due to acquisitions, which added $1.2 million in costs, an increase in costs of $0.2 million related to foreign currency translation, and an additional amortization expense of $0.2 million as a result of increasing cash flows. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other costs to support organic maintenance revenues of $0.1 million. Cost of maintenance revenues as a percentage of these revenues was 44% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to 42% for the three months ended March 31, 2009. Cost of Professional Services . Cost of professional services revenues consists primarily of the cost related to personnel utilized to provide implementation, conversion and training services to our software licensees, as well as system integration, custom programming and actuarial consulting services. The cost of professional services revenues was $3.4 million and $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in costs of professional services revenues of $0.6 million, or 16%, was primarily related to a reduction of $1.3 million in costs to support organic professional services revenues, primarily as a result of one significant implementation project that occurred during 2009, partially offset by our acquisitions, which added $0.5 million in costs, and an increase in costs of $0.2 million related to foreign currency translation. Cost of professional services revenues as a percentage of these revenues was 62% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to 77% for the three months ended March 31, 2009. Cost of Software-Enabled Services . Cost of software-enabled services revenues consists primarily of the cost related to personnel utilized in servicing our software-enabled services clients and amortization of intangible assets. The cost of software-enabled services revenues was $25.9 million and $20.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in costs of software-enabled services revenues of $5.3 million, or 26%, was primarily related to our acquisitions, which added $3.6 million in costs, an increase in costs of $0.9 million related to foreign currency translation and an increase of $0.8 million in costs to support the growth of organic software-enabled services revenues. Cost of software-enabled services revenues as a percentage of these revenues was 53% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to 55% for the three months ended March 31, 2009. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $19.6 million and $16.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in total operating expenses of $3.4 million, or 21%, was primarily due to our acquisitions of Evare, MAXIMIS, TNR, Tradeware, and GIPS, which added $2.8 million in costs, and an increase in costs of $0.6 million related to foreign currency translation. Total operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 25% for each of the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Selling and Marketing . Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of the personnel costs associated with the selling and marketing of our products, including salaries, commissions and travel and entertainment. Such expenses also include amortization of intangible assets, the cost of branch sales offices, trade shows and marketing and promotional materials. Selling and marketing expenses were $6.2 million and $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 8% of total revenues in those periods. The increase in selling and marketing expenses of $1.0 million, or 18%, was primarily related to our acquisitions, which added $0.9 million in costs, and an increase in costs of $0.2 million related to foreign currency translation, partially offset by a decrease in costs of $0.1 million. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs attributable to the enhancement of existing products and the development of new software products. Research and development expenses were $7.8 million and $5.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 10% and 9% of total revenues in those periods, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses of $1.9 million, or 32%, was primarily related to our acquisitions, which added $1.3 million in costs, an increase in costs of $0.3 million related to foreign currency translation, and an increase of $0.3 million in costs to support organic revenue growth. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs related to management, accounting and finance, information management, human resources and administration and associated overhead 14 Table of Contents costs, as well as fees for professional services. General and administrative expenses were $5.7 million and $5.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 7% and 8% of total revenues in those periods, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $0.6 million, or 12%, was primarily related to our acquisitions, which added $0.6 million in costs, and an increase in costs of $0.1 million related to foreign currency translation, partially offset by a decrease of $0.1 million in other general and administrative costs. Interest Expense, Net. Net interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 was $9.0 million and $9.4 million, respectively, and primarily related to interest expense on debt outstanding under our senior credit facility and 11 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2013. The decrease in interest expense of $0.4 million was due to a decrease in outstanding debt as principal payments are made and lower average interest rates for the period. Other (Expense) Income, Net . Other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2010 consists primarily of foreign currency losses. Other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2009 consisted primarily of foreign currency gains. Provision for Income Taxes. We had effective tax rates of 12.3% and 31.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expected effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 is forecasted to be between 25% and 30%. The difference between the March 31, 2010 effective tax rate and the forecasted tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 is attributable to a release of uncertain income tax positions, refunds and enacted rate changes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development and to acquire complementary businesses or assets. We expect our cash on hand, cash flows from operations and availability under the revolving credit portion of our senior credit facilities to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. Our cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2010 were $21.2 million, an increase of $2.1 million from $19.1 million at December 31, 2009. Cash provided by operations was partially offset by net repayments of debt, cash used for an acquisition and capital expenditures. Net cash provided by operating activities was $15.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. Cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net income of $9.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of $9.8 million, partially offset by changes in our working capital accounts totaling $3.3 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by an increase in accounts receivable and income taxes receivable and payable, and decreases in accrued expenses and other liabilities and accounts payable, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenues. The increase in deferred revenues was primarily due to the collection of annual maintenance fees. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the increase in revenue, partially offset by an improvement in days sales outstanding. The decrease in accrued expenses was primarily due to the payment of annual employee bonuses, offset in part by an increase in interest payable related to our notes. Investing activities used net cash of $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010, primarily related to $11.4 million cash paid for our acquisition of GIPS and $1.0 million cash paid for capital expenditures. Financing activities used net cash of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010, representing $2.7 million in net repayments of debt under our senior credit facilities and $1.2 million for the repurchase of our common stock in connection with stock option exercises, partially offset by income tax windfall benefits of $2.0 million related to the exercise of stock options and proceeds of $1.0 million from stock option exercises. In April 2010, we received IPO proceeds of $134.8 million, a portion of which SS&C will use to pay down $71.75 million in principal amount of the outstanding 11 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2013 at a redemption price of 105.875% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest on or about May 24, 2010. 15 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Senior Credit Facilities SS&Cs borrowings under the senior credit facilities bear interest at either a floating base rate or a Eurocurrency rate plus, in each case, an applicable margin. In addition, SS&C pays a commitment fee in respect of unused revolving commitments at a rate that will be adjusted based on its leverage ratio. SS&C is obligated to make quarterly principal payments on the term loan totaling $2.0 million per year. Subject to certain exceptions, thresholds and other limitations, SS&C is required to prepay outstanding loans under the senior credit facilities with the net proceeds of certain asset dispositions and certain debt issuances and 50% of its excess cash flow (as defined in the agreements governing our senior credit facilities), which percentage will be reduced based on SS&C reaching certain leverage ratio thresholds. The obligations under SS&Cs senior credit facilities are guaranteed by us and all of SS&Cs existing and future material wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as set forth in the credit agreement. The obligations of the Canadian borrower are guaranteed by us, SS&C and each of SS&Cs U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries, with certain exceptions as set forth in the credit agreement. The obligations under the senior credit facilities are secured by a perfected first priority security interest in all of SS&Cs capital stock and all of the capital stock or other equity interests held by us, SS&C and each of SS&Cs existing and future U.S. subsidiary guarantors (subject to certain limitations for equity interests of foreign subsidiaries and other exceptions as set forth in SS&Cs credit agreement) and all of our and SS&Cs tangible and intangible assets and the tangible and intangible assets of each of SS&Cs existing and future U.S. subsidiary guarantors, with certain exceptions as set forth in the credit agreement. The Canadian borrowers borrowings under the senior credit facilities and all guarantees thereof are secured by a perfected first priority security interest in all of SS&Cs capital stock and all of the capital stock or other equity interests held by us, SS&C and each of SS&Cs existing and future U.S. and Canadian subsidiary guarantors, with certain exceptions as set forth in the credit agreement, and all of our and SS&Cs tangible and intangible assets and the tangible and intangible assets of each of SS&Cs existing and future U.S. and Canadian subsidiary guarantors, with certain exceptions as set forth in the credit agreement. The senior credit facilities contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, SS&Cs (and its restricted subsidiaries) ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and distributions on capital stock, create liens on assets, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, repay subordinated indebtedness, make capital expenditures, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets and engage in mergers or acquisitions. In addition, under the senior credit facilities, SS&C is required to satisfy and maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. SS&C was in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2010. 11 3 / 4 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 The 11 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2013 are unsecured senior subordinated obligations of SS&C that are subordinated in right of payment to all existing and future senior debt, including the senior credit facilities. The senior subordinated notes will be pari passu in right of payment to all future senior subordinated debt. The senior subordinated notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at SS&Cs option, at any time at varying redemption prices that generally include premiums, which are defined in the indenture. In addition, upon a change of control, SS&C is required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior subordinated notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. In April 2010, SS&C issued a notice of redemption for $71.75 million in principal amount of our outstanding 11 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2013 at a redemption price of 105.875% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The indenture governing the senior subordinated notes contains a number of covenants that restrict, subject to certain exceptions, SS&Cs ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make certain investments, create liens, dispose of certain assets and engage in mergers or acquisitions. Covenant Compliance Under the senior credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial 16 Table of Contents condition tests. As of March 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the financial and non-financial covenants. Our continued ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the senior credit facilities, which are material facilities supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the senior credit facilities. We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests contained in the senior credit facilities. Management uses Consolidated EBITDA to gauge the costs of our capital structure on a day-to-day basis when full financial statements are unavailable. Management further believes that providing this information allows our investors greater transparency and a better understanding of our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make capital expenditures. The breach of covenants in the senior credit facilities that are tied to ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA could result in a default under that agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed due and payable and to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Any such acceleration would also result in a default under our indenture. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under our debt agreements would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under our debt agreements, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by GAAP and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the senior credit facilities require that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. Consolidated EBITDA is not a recognized measurement under GAAP, and investors should not consider Consolidated EBITDA as a substitute for measures of our financial performance and liquidity as determined in accordance with GAAP, such as net income, operating income or net cash provided by operating activities. Because other companies may calculate Consolidated EBITDA differently than we do, Consolidated EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Consolidated EBITDA has other limitations as an analytical tool, when compared to the use of net income (loss), which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, including: Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the provision of income tax expense in our various jurisdictions; Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense we incur as a result of our debt leverage; Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect any attribution of costs to our operations related to our investments and capital expenditures through depreciation and amortization charges; Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the cost of compensation we provide to our employees in the form of stock option awards; and Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses that we believe are unusual or non-recurring, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business. 17 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in the senior credit facilities. Twelve Months Ended Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, 2010 2009 2010 Net income $ 9,021 $ 3,898 $ 24,141 Interest expense 9,017 9,350 36,530 Income taxes 1,268 1,782 9,290 Depreciation and amortization 10,113 8,573 37,568 EBITDA 29,419 23,603 107,529 Purchase accounting adjustments (1) 23 (51 ) (19 ) Unusual or non-recurring charges (2) 351 (472 ) 2,813 Acquired EBITDA and cost savings (3) 192 221 7,021 Stock-based compensation 1,350 1,269 5,688 Capital-based taxes 226 334 687 Other (4) 206 345 1,062 Consolidated EBITDA $ 31,767 $ 25,249 $ 124,781 (1) Purchase accounting adjustments include an adjustment to increase rent expense by the amount that would have been recognized if lease obligations were not adjusted to fair value at the date of the Transaction. (2) Unusual or non-recurring charges include foreign currency gains and losses, expenses related to the withdrawn public offering, severance expenses associated with workforce reduction, equity earnings and losses on investments, proceeds from legal and other settlements and other one-time expenses. (3) Acquired EBITDA and cost savings reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period and cost savings to be realized from such acquisitions. (4) Other includes management fees and related expenses paid to The Carlyle Group and the non-cash portion of straight-line rent expense. The covenant restricting capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2010 limits expenditures to $25.5 million. Actual capital expenditures through March 31, 2010 were $1.0 million. The covenant requirements for total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio and the actual ratios for the twelve months ended March 31, 2010 are as follows: Covenant Actual Requirements Ratios Maximum consolidated total leverage to Consolidated EBITDA Ratio 5.50x 3.01x Minimum Consolidated EBITDA to consolidated net interest coverage ratio 2.25x 3.65x Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance on subsequent events. Under this amended guidance, SEC filers are no longer required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in originally issued and revised financial statements. This guidance was effective immediately, and we adopted these new requirements upon issuance of this guidance. In January 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to improving disclosures about fair value measurements. This guidance requires the disclosure of separate amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and the reason for such transfers. It also requires information related to purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities to be presented separately in the reconciliation of fair value measurements for the period presented. In addition, the guidance clarifies existing disclosure guidance with respect to the level of disaggregation for classes of financial assets and liabilities as well as valuation techniques and inputs used for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements of Level 2 and Level 3 assets and liabilities. We adopted the new disclosure requirements effective January 1, 2010. 18 Table of Contents