Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on fluctuations in revenues, profit margins and other operating results. Additional factors that may lead to such fluctuation include: the timing of the introduction and the market acceptance of new products, product enhancements or services by us or our competitors; the lengthy and often unpredictable sales cycles of large client engagements; the amount and timing of our operating costs and other expenses; the financial health of our clients; changes in the volume of assets under our clients management; cancellations of maintenance and/or software-enabled services arrangements by our clients; changes in local, national and international regulatory requirements; acquisitions during the relevant period; implementation of our licensing contracts and software-enabled services arrangements; changes in economic and financial market conditions; and changes in the types of products and services we provide. We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity. We are dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships, impair our compliance efforts as a public company, and have a material adverse effect on our business objectives. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any senior officer or manager. If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to provide adequate technical expertise and customer service to our clients. We believe that our success is due in part to our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the software and hedge fund industries is intense, and we have, at times, found it difficult to attract and retain skilled personnel for our operations. Our failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees could prevent us from developing and servicing our products at the same levels as our competitors; therefore, we may lose potential clients and suffer a decline in revenues. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information, our success and our ability to compete will be subject to various risks, such as third-party infringement claims, unauthorized use of our technology, disclosure of our proprietary information or inability to license technology from third-parties. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients. However, these efforts may be insufficient to prevent those parties or others from infringing, misappropriating, violating or asserting rights in our intellectual property, confidential information or other technology and our proprietary technology and confidential information may be subject to embezzlement, theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or third-parties. In addition, our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients may breach our confidentiality agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If a third-party were to gain unauthorized access to or independently develop the confidential or proprietary information we possess, we could suffer a loss of revenues, we could experience an adverse impact on our competitive position, and our relationships with our clients and our reputation could be materially adversely effected. 21 Existing patent and copyright laws afford only limited protection. Third - parties may develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology or may offer equivalent products in competition with our products in a manner that does not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property or other proprietary rights , thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. A number of third - parties hold patents and other intellectual property r ights with application in the financial services field. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that such third - parties will claim that our products infringe , misappropriate or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights, including their patent rights. Such claims, regardless of merit , could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation , divert the attention of our personnel, and impair our intellectual property rights. Moreover, as a result of such claims, we may be required to redesign our products or services in a manner that is not infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating such third-partys intellectual property rights, which may not be technically or com mercially feasible. We may also be required to obtain a license to such intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, result s of operation, and financial condition. We incorporate open source software into a limited number of our software products. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend. Some open source licenses require that source code subject to the license be disclosed to third-parties, grant such third-parties the right to modify and redistribute that source code and a requirement that the source code for any software derived from it be disclosed. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms is uncertain and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding those of our products, technologies or solutions affected. We have acquired and may acquire important technology rights through our acquisitions and have often incorporated and may incorporate features of these technologies across many of our products and services. As a result, we are subject to the above risks and the additional risk that the seller of the technology rights may not have appropriately protected the intellectual property rights we acquired. Indemnification and other rights under applicable acquisition documents are limited in term and scope and therefore provide us with only limited protection. In addition, we rely on third-party software in providing some of our products and services. If we lose our licenses to use such software or if such licenses are found to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate upon the rights of others, we will need to seek alternative means of obtaining the licensed software to continue to provide our products or services, which may not be feasible on a technical or commercial basis. Our inability to replace such software, or to replace such software in a timely manner, could significantly disrupt our business and our ability to deliver products and services to our clients, and adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. We could become subject to litigation regarding our or a third-partys intellectual property rights or other confidential or proprietary information, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs. In recent years, there has been a high incidence of litigation in the U.S. involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We are from time to time a party to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to protect our confidential or proprietary information, or as a result of an allegation that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate a third-partys intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights. From time to time, we have received notices claiming our technology may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate third-party intellectual property rights or otherwise threatening to assert intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and our intellectual property rights being reduced, narrowed or held unenforceable or invalid. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, adversely affect our revenues, profitability and prospects, and divert management time and attention. If we are found to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate a third-partys intellectual property rights, we may be required to pay the third-party substantial monetary damages and to cease the activities covered by such intellectual property rights, unless we obtain a license to such intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, these claims and threats could also cause us to undertake to re-engineer our products or services which may not be technically or commercially feasible. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We may be unable to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and new product and service introductions characterize the market for our products and services. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance 22 our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs. The process of developing our software products is comple x and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and technologies. Current areas of significant technological change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the pr ocessing and analyzing of large amounts of data. Our ability to keep up with technology and business and regulatory changes is subject to a number of risks, including that: we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to meet our clients needs; we may find it difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; we may find it difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, regulatory requirements and other developments in the industries in which our clients operate; and we may be exposed to liability for security breaches that allow unauthorized persons to gain access to confidential information stored on our computers or transmitted over our network. Our failure to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to promptly address the needs of our clients and a changing marketplace could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Undetected software design defects, errors or failures, or employee errors, may result in defects, delays, loss of our clients data, litigation against us and harm to our reputation and business. Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors or bugs in our software may affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, result in the loss of client data, damage our reputation, affect market acceptance of our products or result in the rejection of our products by the market, cause loss of revenues, divert development resources, increase product liability and warranty claims, and increase service and support costs. We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products. Moreover, our clients engage in complex trading activities and this complexity increases the likelihood that our employees may make errors. Employee errors, poor employee performance or misconduct may be difficult to detect and deter. These product defects or errors in the product operations, or employee errors, poor performance or misconduct, could cause damages to our clients for which they may assert claims or lawsuits against us. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert managements attention and result in reputational harm. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our platform could be used to collect and store personal information of our customers employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit use of our platform. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the U.S. and in many other countries where we offer our solutions or may offer them in the future. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving, is not uniform and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, disclosure, control, security and deletion of personal information. In the U.S., these include, without limitation, laws and regulations promulgated by states, as well as rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and federal financial regulatory bodies. Internationally, most of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal frameworks, many of which are broader in scope, more restrictive and impose greater obligations on us and our customers. For instance, effective May 2018, the European Unions (E.U.) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new E.U.-wide legal framework to govern data collection use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, will strengthen and unify data protection rules for individuals within the E.U. The GDPR also addresses export of personal data outside the E.U. Many of these obligations are updated frequently and subject to interpretation by various regulatory bodies and thus require ongoing monitoring. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. 23 As a result of uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection-related laws, regulations, and self-regulatory requirements, it is possible that these laws, regulations, and requirements may be in terpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data handling practices or the technological features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamental ly change our business activities and practices or modify our solutions, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy or data protection-related concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable priv acy or data protection-related laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the la ws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our solutions. Also, privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adop tion of our solutions, particularly in foreign countries. Our business is subject to evolving regulations and increased scrutiny from regulators. Our business is subject to evolving and increasing regulation, and our relationships with our clients may subject us to increased scrutiny from a number of regulators, including the Bermuda Monetary Authority, British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission, Centrale Bank van Curacao en Sint Maarten, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FTC, Cayman Islands Monetary Authority, Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Financial Conduct Authority, Central Bank of Ireland, National Futures Association, Ontario Securities Commission, SEC, Securities Commission of the Bahamas, U.S. Treasury Department and other government entities that regulate the financial services, hedge fund and hedge fund services industry in the U.S., the United Kingdom (U.K.) and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or to offer products and services we may wish to offer in the future. As a result of the changes in the global economy and the turmoil in global financial markets in recent years, the risk of additional government regulation has increased. In addition, the final outcome of negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U. with respect to the U.K.s exit from the E.U. is uncertain. As a result, the impact of the U.K.s exit on the U.K. regulatory regime is unknown, but it is possible that we will become subject to more onerous regulations in the U.K. as a result. The European Unions AIFMD and the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, among other initiatives, pose significant changes to the regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate. The impact of these regulatory changes remains uncertain. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines or other sanctions, including revocation of our licenses and/or registrations with various regulatory agencies, criminal penalties and civil lawsuits. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K. Bribery Act (Bribery Act), generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. We and our clients operate in a number of jurisdictions that may pose a risk of potential FCPA or Bribery Act violations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our internal operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. While our policies mandate compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. A failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations, or allegations of such noncompliance, could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various international jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The Tax Act, among other things, reduces the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and executive compensation, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We recorded a net benefit to income tax expense of $88 million in 2017 related to the enactment of the Tax Act, which includes the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the corporate tax rate reduction, the one-time transition tax imposed on accumulated foreign earnings and deferred taxes provided for the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) minimum tax that takes effect in 2018. The SEC Staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118) to provide guidance to companies on how to implement the accounting and disclosure changes required as a result of the Tax Act. The SEC staff guidance has recognized that, due to the 24 complexity of the Tax Act, the accounting for income tax effects of the change in law may be incomplete upon issuance of a company's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act was enacted. SAB 118 states that if a company can determine a reasonable estimate for the effects of the Tax Act then this estimate can be included in the financial statements. We have made reasonable estimat e s and recorded certain provisional tax benefits and charges in connection with the implementation of the Tax Act that were based on our current interpretation and understanding of the law and may change as we receive additional clarification and implement ation guidance. Changes to these provisional amounts could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods. We will continue to gather and analyze information on historical unrepatriated foreign earnings and to monitor state laws relati ng to this income to finalize both the federal and state tax impact. We will also continue to review the impact of certain limitations on deductions in our assessment of the value of our deferred tax assets as regulatory guidance is issued. See Manageme nts Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be affected by the outcome of investigations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted, outside the U.S. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 international revenues accounted for 27%, 27% and 32%, respectively, of our total revenues. We sell certain of our products, such as MarginMan and Pacer, primarily outside the U.S. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U, commonly referred to as Brexit. Current uncertainty over the final outcome of the negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U., with respect to the terms of the U.K.s exit, may adversely affect our operations and financial results, as we generated approximately $115.8 million in revenue from the U.K. in 2017. Our international business is also subject to a variety of other risks, including: potential changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic climate; the need to comply with a variety of local regulations and laws, U.S. export controls, the FCPA and the Bribery Act; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; application of discriminatory fiscal policies; potential changes in tax laws and the interpretation of such laws; and potential difficulty enforcing third-party contractual obligations and intellectual property rights. Such factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S. and significant revenues are generated outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation or transaction risk, and significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial statements. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the foreign currency translation impact on operating results and financial condition. We do not currently engage in hedging activities. Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. 25 Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition. A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the potential impact of the adoption and implementation of the accounting standard update on revenue recognition issued in May 2014 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Under the new standard, we will recognize term license revenues upfront at time of delivery rather than ratably over the related contract period. Additionally, under the new standard, we will capitalize and amortize certain direct costs, such as commissions, over the expected customer life rather than expensing them as incurred. While the adoption of the new standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot do so, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure