Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on fluctuations in revenues, profit margins and other operating results. Additional factors that may lead to such fluctuation include: the timing of the introduction and the market acceptance of new products, product enhancements or services by us or our competitors; the lengthy and often unpredictable sales cycles of large client engagements; the amount and timing of our operating costs and other expenses; the financial health of our clients; changes in the volume of assets under our clients management; cancellations of maintenance and/or software-enabled services arrangements by our clients; changes in local, national and international regulatory requirements; acquisitions during the relevant period; implementation of our licensing contracts and software-enabled services arrangements; changes in economic and financial market conditions; and changes in the types of products and services we provide. We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity. We are dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships, impair our compliance efforts as a public company, and have a material adverse effect on our business objectives. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any senior officer or manager. If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to provide adequate technical expertise and customer service to our clients. We believe that our success is due in part to our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the software and hedge fund industries is intense, and we have, at times, found it difficult to attract and retain skilled personnel for our operations. Our failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees could prevent us from developing and servicing our products at the same levels as our competitors; therefore, we may lose potential clients and suffer a decline in revenues. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information, our success and our ability to compete will be subject to various risks, such as third-party infringement claims, unauthorized use of our technology, disclosure of our proprietary information or inability to license technology from third parties. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients. These efforts may be insufficient to prevent third parties from misappropriating or asserting rights in our intellectual property and technology. Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Existing patent and copyright laws afford only limited protection. Third parties may develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology or may offer equivalent products in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. A number of third parties hold patents and other intellectual property rights with application in the financial services field. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that such third parties will claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, including their patent rights. Such claims, if successful, could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation and impair our intellectual property rights. We incorporate open source software into a limited number of our software products. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms is uncertain and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding those of our products, technologies or solutions affected. We have acquired and may acquire important technology rights through our acquisitions and have often incorporated and may incorporate features of these technologies across many of our products and services. As a result, we are subject to the above risks and the additional risk that the seller of the technology rights may not have appropriately protected the intellectual property rights we acquired. Indemnification and other rights under applicable acquisition documents are limited in term and scope and therefore provide us with only limited protection. In addition, we rely on third-party software in providing some of our products and services. If we lose our licenses to use such software or if such licenses are found to infringe upon the rights of others, we will need to seek alternative means of obtaining the licensed software to continue to provide our products or services. Our inability to replace such software, or to replace such software in a timely manner, could significantly disrupt our business and our ability to deliver products and services to our clients, and adversely affect our financial results. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs. In recent years, there has been a high incidence of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We are from time to time a party to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or as a result of an allegation that we infringe a third partys intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and copyrights. From time to time, we have received notices claiming our technology may infringe third-party intellectual property rights or otherwise threatening to assert intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of 24 Table of Contents our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, adversely affect our revenues, profitability and prospects, and divert management time and attention. These claims and threats could also cause us to undertake to re-engineer our products or services or obtain a license of third-party technologies on unfavorable terms. We may be unable to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and new product and service introductions characterize the market for our products and services. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs. The process of developing our software products is complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and technologies. Current areas of significant technological change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. Our ability to keep up with technology and business and regulatory changes is subject to a number of risks, including that: we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to meet our clients needs; we may find it difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; we may find it difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, regulatory requirements and other developments in the industries in which our clients operate; and we may be exposed to liability for security breaches that allow unauthorized persons to gain access to confidential information stored on our computers or transmitted over our network. Our failure to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to promptly address the needs of our clients and a changing marketplace could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Undetected software design defects, errors or failures, or employee errors, may result in defects, delays, loss of our clients data, litigation against us and harm to our reputation and business. Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors or bugs in our software may affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, result in the loss of client data, damage our reputation, affect market acceptance of our products or result in the rejection of our products by the market, cause loss of revenues, divert development resources, increase product liability and warranty claims, and increase service and support costs. We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products. Moreover, our clients engage in complex trading activities and this complexity increases the likelihood that our employees may make errors. Employee errors, poor employee performance or misconduct may be difficult to detect and deter. These product defects or errors in the product operations, or employee errors, poor performance or misconduct, could cause damages to our clients for which they may assert claims or lawsuits against us. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert managements attention and result in reputational harm. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our business and financial statements. 25 Table of Contents Our business is subject to evolving regulations and increased scrutiny from regulators. Our business is subject to evolving and increasing regulation, and our relationships with our clients may subject us to increased scrutiny from a number of regulators, including the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA), British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (BVIFSC), Centrale Bank van Curacao en Sint Maarten, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (CIMA), Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF), Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Central Bank of Ireland (CBI), National Futures Association (NFA), Ontario Securities Commission (OSC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Securities Commission of the Bahamas (SCB), U.S. Treasury Department and other government entities that regulate the financial services, hedge fund and hedge fund services industry in the United States, the United Kingdom and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or to offer products and services we may wish to offer in the future. As a result of the changes in the global economy and the turmoil in global financial markets in recent years, the risk of additional government regulation has increased. The European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) and the United States Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, among other initiatives, pose significant changes to the regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate. The impact of these regulatory changes remains uncertain. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines or other sanctions, including revocation of our licenses and/or registrations with various regulatory agencies, criminal penalties and civil lawsuits. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K. Bribery Act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees or agents that violate anti-bribery laws could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions. A failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations, or allegations of such noncompliance, could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various international jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our business and financial statements may be affected by the outcome of investigations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted, outside the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, international revenues accounted for 35%, 35% and 33%, respectively, of our total revenues. We sell certain of our products, such as MarginMan and Pacer, primarily outside the United States. Our international business is subject to a variety of risks, including: potential changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic climate; 26 Table of Contents the need to comply with a variety of local regulations and laws, U.S. export controls, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; application of discriminatory fiscal policies; potential changes in tax laws and the interpretation of such laws; and potential difficulty enforcing third-party contractual obligations and intellectual property rights. Such factors could adversely affect our business and financial statements. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States and significant revenues are generated outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Because our consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation or transaction risk, and significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial statements. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the foreign currency translation impact on operating results and financial condition. We do not currently engage in hedging activities. Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot do so, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure