Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on fluctuations in revenues, profit margins and other operating results. Additional factors that may lead to such fluctuation include: the timing of the introduction and the market acceptance of new products, product enhancements or services by us or our competitors; the lengthy and often unpredictable sales cycles of large client engagements; the amount and timing of our operating costs and other expenses; the financial health of our clients; changes in the volume of assets under our clients management; cancellations of maintenance and/or software-enabled services arrangements by our clients; changes in local, national and international regulatory requirements; acquisitions during the relevant period; implementation of our licensing contracts and software-enabled services arrangements; changes in economic and financial market conditions; and changes in the types of products and services we provide. We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity. We are dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships, impair our compliance efforts as a public company, and have a material adverse effect on our business objectives. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any senior officer or manager. 21 Table of Contents If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to provide adequate technical expertise and customer service to our clients. We believe that our success is due in part to our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the software and hedge fund industries is intense, and we have, at times, found it difficult to attract and retain skilled personnel for our operations. Our failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled employees could prevent us from developing and servicing our products at the same levels as our competitors; therefore, we may lose potential clients and suffer a decline in revenues. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information, our success and our ability to compete will be subject to various risks, such as third-party infringement claims, unauthorized use of our technology, disclosure of our proprietary information or inability to license technology from third parties. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information. We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients. These efforts may be insufficient to prevent third parties from misappropriating or asserting rights in our intellectual property and technology. Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. Existing patent and copyright laws afford only limited protection. Third parties may develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology or may offer equivalent products in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. A number of third parties hold patents and other intellectual property rights with application in the financial services field. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that such third parties will claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, including their patent rights. Such claims, if successful, could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation and impair our intellectual property rights. We incorporate open source software into a limited number of our software products. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms is uncertain and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding those of our products, technologies or solutions affected. We have acquired and may acquire important technology rights through our acquisitions and have often incorporated and may incorporate features of these technologies across many of our products and services. As a result, we are subject to the above risks and the additional risk that the seller of the technology rights may not have appropriately protected the intellectual property rights we acquired. Indemnification and other rights under applicable acquisition documents are limited in term and scope and therefore provide us with only limited protection. In addition, we rely on third-party software in providing some of our products and services. If we lose our licenses to use such software or if such licenses are found to infringe upon the rights of others, we will need to seek alternative means of obtaining the licensed software to continue to provide our products or services. Our inability to replace such software, or to replace such software in a timely manner, could significantly disrupt our business and our ability to deliver products and services to our clients, and adversely affect our financial results. 22 Table of Contents We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs. In recent years, there has been a high incidence of litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We are from time to time a party to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or as a result of an allegation that we infringe a third partys intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and copyrights. From time to time, we have received notices claiming our technology may infringe third-party intellectual property rights or otherwise threatening to assert intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, adversely affect our revenues, profitability and prospects, and divert management time and attention. These claims and threats could also cause us to undertake to re-engineer our products or services or obtain a license of third-party technologies on unfavorable terms. We may be unable to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and new product and service introductions characterize the market for our products and services. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs. The process of developing our software products is complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and technologies. Current areas of significant technological change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. Our ability to keep up with technology and business and regulatory changes is subject to a number of risks, including that: we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to meet our clients needs; we may find it difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; we may find it difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, regulatory requirements and other developments in the industries in which our clients operate; and we may be exposed to liability for security breaches that allow unauthorized persons to gain access to confidential information stored on our computers or transmitted over our network. Our failure to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to promptly address the needs of our clients and a changing marketplace could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Undetected software design defects, errors or failures, or employee errors, may result in defects, delays, loss of our clients data, litigation against us and harm to our reputation and business. Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors or bugs in our software may affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, result in the loss of client data, damage our reputation, affect market acceptance of our products or result in the rejection of our products by the market, cause loss of revenues, divert development resources, increase product liability and warranty claims, and increase service and support costs. We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products. Moreover, our clients engage in complex trading activities and this complexity increases the likelihood that our employees may make errors. Employee errors, poor employee performance or misconduct may be difficult to detect and deter. These product defects or errors in the product operations, or employee errors, poor performance or misconduct, could cause damages to our clients for which they may assert claims or lawsuits against us. The cost of defending such a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be substantial and could divert managements attention and result in reputational harm. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may be liable for payment of substantial damages. Any or all of these potential consequences could have an adverse impact on our business and financial statements. 23 Table of Contents Our business is subject to evolving regulations and increased scrutiny from regulators. Our business is subject to evolving and increasing regulation, and our relationships with our clients may subject us to increased scrutiny from a number of regulators, including the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA), British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (BVIFSC), Centrale Bank van Curacao en Sint Maarten, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (CIMA), Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF), Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Central Bank of Ireland (CBI), National Futures Association (NFA), Ontario Securities Commission (OSC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Securities Commission of the Bahamas (SCB), U.S. Treasury Department and other government entities that regulate the financial services, hedge fund and hedge fund services industry in the United States, the United Kingdom and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or to offer products and services we may wish to offer in the future. As a result of the changes in the global economy and the turmoil in global financial markets in recent years, the risk of additional government regulation has increased. The European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) and the United States Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, among other initiatives, pose significant changes to the regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate. The impact of these regulatory changes remain uncertain. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines or other sanctions, including revocation of our licenses and/or registrations with various regulatory agencies, criminal penalties and civil lawsuits. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K. Bribery Act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees or agents that violate anti-bribery laws could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions. A failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations, or allegations of such noncompliance, could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various international jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our business and financial statements may be affected by the outcome of investigations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted, outside the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, international revenues accounted for 30%, 35% and 35%, respectively, of our total revenues. We sell certain of our products, such as MarginMan and Pacer, primarily outside the United States. Our international business is subject to a variety of risks, including: potential changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic climate; the need to comply with a variety of local regulations and laws, U.S. export controls, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; application of discriminatory fiscal policies; potential changes in tax laws and the interpretation of such laws; and potential difficulty enforcing third-party contractual obligations and intellectual property rights. Such factors could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 24 Table of Contents We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States and significant revenues are generated outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Because our consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation or transaction risk, and significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial statements. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the foreign currency translation impact on operating results and financial condition. We do not currently engage in hedging activities. Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. To complete our acquisitions of GlobeOp and Thomson Reuters PORTIA Business, or the PORTIA Business, we incurred approximately an additional $1,072 million of debt under a senior credit facility. Borrowings under this facility totaled approximately $782 million as of December 31, 2013. The existence of this indebtedness could have adverse consequences. For example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, change in our business and the industry in which we operate; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our senior credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the agreement governing our senior credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We are currently obligated to make periodic interest payments on our senior debt of approximately $23 million annually. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business fails to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings are not available to us under our senior credit facility, we may not be able to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. We may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 25 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in the agreement governing our senior credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The agreement governing our senior credit facility limits our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness; sell assets, including capital stock of certain subsidiaries; pay dividends; consolidate, merge, liquidate or dissolve; acquire companies, products or technologies; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and incur liens. In addition, our senior credit facility includes other covenants that, subject to permitted exceptions, prohibit us from making investments, loans, dispositions and other advances, changing the nature of our business, modifying our organizational documents and prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under our senior credit facility is outstanding. The agreement governing our senior credit facility also requires us to maintain compliance with a specified leverage ratio. Our ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in the agreement governing our senior credit facility could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise conduct our business activities and plans. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or our inability to comply with the leverage ratio could result in a default under the agreement governing our senior credit facility. If such a default occurs, the lenders under our senior credit facility may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior credit facility also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash, granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the indebtedness under our senior credit facility were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock If equity research analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock or trading volume in our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing regular reports about us or our business. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our common stock. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering, or IPO, at a price of $15.00 per share on March 31, 2010, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $46.61 and as low as $13.27. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; 26 Table of Contents changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; regulatory developments in any of our markets; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us; and changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for technology stocks, financial services stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, exerts significant control over our company. As of February 24, 2014, William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 20.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. We are party to a stockholders agreement with Mr. Stone, pursuant to which Mr. Stone has the right to nominate two members of our board of directors, one of which will be Mr. Stone for so long as he is our Chief Executive Officer, and controls the right (formerly held jointly by Mr. Stone and Carlyle) to nominate two additional board members. As a result, Mr. Stone has significant influence over our policy and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval. SS&C Holdings is a holding company with no operations or assets of its own and its ability to pay dividends is limited or otherwise restricted. SS&C Holdings has no direct operations and no significant assets other than the stock of SS&C. The ability of SS&C Holdings to pay dividends is limited by its status as a holding company and by the terms of the agreement governing our senior credit facility. See Risk factors Risks relating to our indebtedness Restrictive covenants in the agreement governing our senior credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Moreover, none of the subsidiaries of SS&C Holdings is obligated to make funds available to SS&C Holdings for the payment of dividends or otherwise. In addition, Delaware law imposes requirements that may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries, including SS&C, to pay dividends to SS&C Holdings. These limitations could reduce our attractiveness to investors. Our management has broad discretion in the use of our existing cash resources and may not use such funds effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash resources. Accordingly, our stockholders will have to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to our existing cash resources, with only limited information concerning managements specific intentions. Our management may spend our cash resources in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: 27 Table of Contents limitations on the removal of directors; a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and a prohibition on stockholders from acting by written consent. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their shares of common stock in an acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate offices, which consist of approximately 93,500 square feet of office space located in 80 Lamberton Road, Windsor, CT 06095. In 2013, we extended the lease term through October 2022. We utilize facilities and offices in twenty-six other locations in the United States and have offices in Toronto, Canada; Montreal, Canada; Mississauga, Canada; Kitchener, Canada; London, England; Dublin, Ireland; Luxembourg; Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Singapore; Curacao; Grand Cayman; Bermuda; Bangalore, India; Mumbai, India; Hong Kong; and Sydney, Australia. We lease all of our facilities and offices except for our offices in Yorktown, New York, and Harrison, New York, which we own. We believe that our facilities are in good condition and generally suitable to meet our needs for the foreseeable future; however, we will continue to seek additional space as needed to satisfy our growth. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS As described below, our subsidiary, GlobeOp, is a defendant in pending litigation relating to several clients for which GlobeOp performed services. Fairfield Greenwich-Related Actions In April 2009, GlobeOp was named as a defendant in a putative class action, which we refer to as the Anwar Action, filed by Pasha S. Anwar in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against multiple defendants relating to Greenwich Sentry L.P. and Greenwich Sentry Partners L.P., or the FG Funds, and the alleged losses sustained by the FG Funds investors as a result of Bernard Madoffs Ponzi scheme. The complaint alleged breach of fiduciary duties by GlobeOp and negligence in the performance of its duties and sought to recover as damages the net losses sustained by investors in the putative class, together with applicable interest, costs, and attorneys fees. GlobeOp served as administrator for the Greenwich Sentry fund from October 2003 through August 2006 and for the Greenwich Sentry Partners fund from May 2006 through August 2006, during which time the approximate net asset value of the Greenwich Sentry Fund was $135 million and the Greenwich Sentry Partners Fund was $6 million. In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted the plaintiffs motion for class certification of a class consisting of all net loss investors in the litigated funds (excluding investors from a number of enumerated foreign countries). GlobeOp petitioned the Court of Appeals to permit an interlocutory appeal of the class certification order, but subsequently requested that the Court of Appeals hold its petition in abeyance pending the consummation of a settlement, as detailed below. GlobeOp was also named as one of five defendants in two derivative actions, which we refer to as the Derivative Actions, that were initially filed in New York State Supreme Court in February 2009. Following initial motion practice, the court ordered the plaintiffs to arbitrate the claims asserted against GlobeOp. A litigation trustee on behalf of the bankrupt FG Funds subsequently substituted in as the plaintiff in these actions, which relate to the same losses alleged in the Anwar Action. The litigation trustee sought unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, together with applicable interest, costs, and attorneys fees, as well as contribution and indemnification from GlobeOp for the FG Funds settlement with the Irving Picard, trustee for the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, LLC. GlobeOp maintained that the prior orders compelling arbitration apply to the litigation trustee. 28 Table of Contents In August 2013, GlobeOp and the plaintiffs in the Anwar Action and the Derivative Actions, as well as certain insurers that have agreed to provide GlobeOp with coverage for these claims, entered into a settlement agreement resolving all disputes and claims between and among the parties. After notice and certification of a settlement class, the settlement was approved by an order of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on November 22, 2013, or the Settlement Order. No appeals of the Settlement Order were filed by the January 27, 2014 deadline and, accordingly, the settlement is now final. On January 28, 2014, a notice of voluntary dismissal with prejudice was filed in the New York State Court overseeing the Derivative Actions. On or about January 30, 2014, the settlement amount was released from two escrow accounts to the plaintiffs in the Anwar Action and the Derivative Actions. The entirety of the settlement amount was funded by GlobeOps insurers. Accordingly, the settlement of the Anwar Action and the Derivative Actions has been consummated and the matters are concluded. Millennium Actions Several actions, which we refer to as the Millennium Actions, have been filed in various jurisdictions against GlobeOp alleging claims and damages with respect to a valuation agent services agreement performed by GlobeOp for the Millennium Global Emerging Credit Fund, L.P. and Millennium Global Emerging Credit Fund Ltd., which we refer to collectively as the Millennium Funds. These actions include (i) a putative class action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, or the U.S. Class Action, on behalf of a putative class of investors in the Millennium Funds filed in May 2012 asserting claims of $844 million (the alleged aggregate value of assets under management by the Millennium Funds at the funds peak valuation); (ii) an arbitration proceeding in the United Kingdom, or the UK Arbitration, on behalf of Millennium Global Investments Ltd. and Millennium Asset Management Ltd., the Millennium Funds investment manager and administrative manager, respectively, or the Millennium Managers, which commenced with a request for arbitration in July 2011, seeking an indemnity of $26.5 million for sums paid by way of settlement to the Millennium Funds in a separate arbitration to which GlobeOp was not a party, as well as an indemnity for any losses that may be incurred by the Millennium Managers in the U.S. Class Action; and (iii) a claim in the same arbitration proceeding by the liquidators on behalf of the Millennium Global Emerging Credit Master Fund Ltd., or the Master Fund, against GlobeOp for damages alleged to be in excess of $160 million. These actions allege that GlobeOp breached its contractual obligations and/or negligently breached a duty of care in the performance of services for the Millennium Fund and that, inter alia, GlobeOp should have discovered and reported a fraudulent scheme perpetrated by the portfolio manager employed by the investment manager. The U.S. Class Action also asserts claims against SS&C identical to the claims against GlobeOp in that action. In the arbitration, GlobeOp has asserted counterclaims against both the Millennium Managers and the Master Fund for indemnity, including in respect of the U.S. Class Action. A hearing on the merits of the claims asserted in the UK arbitration was conducted in London in July and August 2013. The hearing has been adjourned and is not expected to be reconvened until September 2014. GlobeOp has secured insurance coverage that provides reimbursement of various litigation costs up to pre-determined limits. In 2012 and 2013, GlobeOp was reimbursed for litigation costs under the applicable insurance policy. In January 2014, GlobeOp, SS&C, the Millennium Managers and the plaintiff in the U.S. Class Action entered into a settlement agreement resolving all disputes and claims between and among the parties (including a separate mutual release between and among GlobeOp and SS&C, on the one hand, and the Millennium Managers on the other). The parties have presented the settlement agreement for approval by the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York. As part of the settlement, GlobeOp and the Millennium Managers have agreed to withdraw their claims against each other in the UK Arbitration upon approval of the settlement agreement by the United States District Court. Pending that approval, the UK Arbitration has been stayed in relation to the claims between Millenium and GlobeOp. The settlement agreement does not affect the claims, counterclaims and/or defenses as between GlobeOp and the Master Fund. 29 Table of Contents GlobeOps insurers have agreed to fund the entirety of the settlement amount contemplated to be contributed by GlobeOp. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these matters. The Company believes that it has strong defenses in the U.S. Class Action and the UK Arbitration and is vigorously contesting the UK Arbitration (as described above, the U.S. Class Action is subject of a pending settlement agreement). The amount of any potential loss, if any at all, cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. In addition to the foregoing legal proceedings, from time to time, the Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of its business. In the opinion of the Companys management, the Company is not involved in any other such litigation or proceedings with third parties that management believes would have a material adverse effect on the Company or its business. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SSNC. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Global Select Market: High Low 2013 Fourth quarter $ 44.26 $ 34.67 Third quarter $ 39.94 $ 32.51 Second quarter $ 34.44 $ 27.54 First quarter $ 30.24 $ 22.22 High Low 2012 Fourth quarter $ 25.84 $ 21.00 Third quarter $ 27.04 $ 21.55 Second quarter $ 25.27 $ 20.50 First quarter $ 23.61 $ 17.80 On February 24, 2014, the closing price reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market of our common stock was $38.96 per share. As of February 24, 2014, we had approximately 20 holders of record of our common stock. There is no established public trading market for shares of our Class A non-voting common stock. As of February 24, 2014, William C. Stone, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, was the only holder of record of our Class A non-voting common stock. Each share of Class A non-voting common stock automatically converts into one share of our common stock upon (i) the expiration, with respect to a holder of Class A non-voting common stock, of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the HSR Act, such that such holder could acquire shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of such holders shares of Class A non-voting common stock in compliance with the HSR Act, (ii) any other event, the occurrence of which results in the ability of a holder of Class A non-voting Common Stock to acquire the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Class A non-voting common stock pursuant in compliance with the HSR Act or (iii) the sale of such share of Class A non-voting common stock to a person or entity (x) that would not be required to make a filing under the HSR Act to acquire an equal number of shares of common stock or (y) for which the waiting period under the HSR Act applicable to such person acquiring an equal number of shares of common stock has expired. We have never declared or paid dividends, and we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings in the foreseeable future will be used for the operation and growth of our business. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our status as a holding company and by the terms of the agreement governing our senior credit facility, insofar as we may seek to pay dividends out of funds made available to us by our subsidiaries, because our debt instruments directly or indirectly impose certain limitations on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make loans to us. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. Our equity plan information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information in Part III, Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 31 Table of Contents Performance graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc. under the Exchange Act. The following graph shows a comparison from March 31, 2010 (the date our common stock commenced trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market) through December 31, 2013 of cumulative total return for our common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer and Data Processing Index. Such returns are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. Data for the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer and Data Processing Index assume reinvestment of dividends. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc., the NASDAQ Composite Index And the NASDAQ Computer and Data Processing Index * $100 invested in stock on 3/31/2010. Return calculations of indices assume the reinvestment of dividends. We did not pay dividends in the periods depicted. 3/31/2010 6/30/2010 9/30/2010 12/31/2010 3/31/2011 6/30/2011 9/30/2011 12/31/2011 SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc. 100 106 105 136 135 132 95 120 NASDAQ Composite-Total Returns 100 88 99 112 117 117 102 111 NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing Index 100 84 99 113 117 116 105 110 3/31/2012 6/30/2012 9/30/2012 12/31/2012 3/31/2013 6/30/2013 9/30/2013 12/31/2013 SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc. 155 166 167 153 199 218 253 294 NASDAQ Composite-Total Returns 132 125 134 130 141 148 164 183 NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing Index 126 121 129 125 135 143 154 180 32 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following is a summary of our repurchases of our common stock in the fourth quarter of 2013: Period(1) (a) Total Number of Shares Purchased(2) (b) Average Price Paid per Share(3) (c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(4) (d) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under Plans or Programs(5) October 1, 2013 October 31, 2013 $ $ 100,000,000 November 1, 2013 November 30, 2013 $ $ 100,000,000 December 1, 2013 December 31, 2013 23,900 $ 39.46 23,900 $ 99,056,838 Total 23,900 23,900 (1) Information is based on settlement dates of repurchase transactions. (2) Consists of shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share. (3) Includes commissions paid. (4) In October 31, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a one-year stock repurchase program for up to $100.0 million of our common stock from time to time commencing in October 2013 on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. (5) Dollar amounts represented reflect $100.0 million minus the total aggregate amount purchased in such month and aggregate commissions paid in connection therewith. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The five-year selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. 2013(5) 2012(4) 2011(3) 2010(2) 2009(1) (In thousands, except per share data) STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Revenues $ 712,702 $ 551,842 $ 370,828 $ 328,905 $ 270,915 Operating income 182,968 123,216 93,777 79,840 67,103 Net income 117,895 45,820 51,021 32,413 19,018 Earnings per share Basic $ 1.45 $ 0.59 $ 0.67 $ 0.47 $ 0.31 Diluted $ 1.38 $ 0.55 $ 0.63 $ 0.44 $ 0.30 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 81,195 78,321 76,482 69,027 60,381 Diluted 85,616 82,888 80,709 73,079 63,653 Cash dividends declared per share BALANCE SHEET Total assets $ 2,275,324 $ 2,362,905 $ 1,207,608 $ 1,275,726 $ 1,185,641 Total long-term debt, including current portion 774,507 1,012,138 100,000 290,794 397,259 Stockholders equity 1,231,708 1,075,503 980,103 857,183 645,987 (1) On March 20, 2009, we acquired the assets and business of Evare, LLC. On May 29, 2009, we acquired the assets and business associated with Unisys Corporations MAXIMIS software. On November 19, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of TheNextRound, Inc. On December 31, 2009, we acquired Tradeware Global Corp., through the merger of TG Acquisition Corp., our wholly-owned subsidiary, with and into Tradeware Global Corp., with Tradeware Global Corp., being the surviving company and becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary. (2) On February 3, 2010, we acquired the assets and business associated with Geller & Company LLCs Geller Investment Partnership Services division. On October 1, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of thinkorswim Technologies, Inc. On December 6, 2010, we acquired the all of the outstanding stock of PC Consulting d/b/a TimeShareWare. (3) On March 10, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of BenefitsXML, Inc. On September 8, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of BDO Simpson Xavier Fund Administration Services Limited, a division of BDO. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. (4) On May 9, 2012, we acquired the assets and business associated with Thomson Reuters PORTIA Business. In the second quarter of 2012, we acquired of all of the outstanding stock of GlobeOp Financial Services, S.A. On September 27, 2012, we acquired the assets and business of Gravity Financial. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. (5) On October 1, 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Prime Management Limited. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are a leading provider of mission-critical, sophisticated software products and software-enabled services that allow financial services providers to automate complex business processes and effectively manage their information processing requirements. Our portfolio of software products and rapidly deployable software-enabled services allows our clients to automate and integrate front-office functions such as trading and modeling, middle-office functions such as portfolio management and reporting, and back-office functions such as accounting, performance measurement, reconciliation, reporting, processing and clearing. Our solutions enable our clients to focus on core operations, better monitor and manage investment performance and risk, improve operating efficiency and reduce operating costs. We provide our solutions globally to more than 6,900 clients, principally within the institutional asset management, alternative investment management and financial institutions vertical markets. In addition, our clients include commercial lenders, corporate treasury groups, insurance and pension funds, municipal finance groups and real estate property managers. Since 2010, through a combination of strategic acquisitions and internal development of new products and services, we have expanded our presence in current markets and entered new markets, increased our contractually recurring revenues, more than doubled our operating income and expanded our reach in the financial services market. Our acquisitions since 2010 have expanded our offerings for alternative investment managers and added to our portfolio management systems. Our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business in 2012 significantly expanded our geographic footprint, most notably in Europe and Asia, and our client base and added broader employee expertise. Our contractually recurring revenues, which we define as our maintenance revenues and software-enabled services revenues, were $656.0 million in 2013, compared to $500.2 million and $324.3 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, contractually recurring revenues represented 92.0% of total revenues, compared to 90.6% and 87.4% in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We believe our high level of contractually recurring revenues provides us with the ability to better manage our costs and capital investments. Our revenues from sales outside the United States were $246.0 million in 2013, compared to $191.4 million and $111.1 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. As we have expanded our business, we have focused on increasing our contractually recurring revenues. Since 2010, we have seen increased demand in the financial services industry for our software-enabled services from existing and new customers. We have taken a number of steps to support that demand, such as automating our software-enabled services delivery methods, expanded our service offerings and providing our employees with sales incentives. We have also acquired businesses that offer software-enabled services or have a large base of maintenance clients. Our software-enabled services revenues increased from $246.0 million in 2011 to $552.6 million in 2013. Our maintenance revenues increased from $78.3 million in 2011 to $103.4 million in 2013. Maintenance customer retention rates have continued to be in excess of 90% for our core enterprise products, and we have maintained both pricing levels for new contracts and annual price increases for existing contracts. To support the growth in our software-enabled services revenues and maintain our level of customer service, we have added personnel, expanded our facilities and invested in information technology. These investments and automation improvements in our software-enabled services have served to improve gross margins, although our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business in 2012 have added a significant amount of amortization expense related to intangible assets, which has resulted in an initial decrease in gross margins. Gross margins have decreased from 50.3% in 2011 to 45.4% in 2013. In connection with the acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business in the second quarter of 2012, we entered into a new credit agreement, which is described below in Liquidity and Capital Resources, to fund a portion of the purchase prices and refinance amounts outstanding under our prior senior credit facility. We generated $208.3 million in cash from operating activities in 2013, compared to $134.4 million and $110.4 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, we used our operating cash flow and existing cash to repay $239.0 million of debt, invest $11.9 million in capital equipment in our business, acquire Prime Management Limited for $3.7 million and invest $2.4 million in internally-developed capitalized software. 35 Table of Contents Acquisitions. To supplement our growth, we evaluate and execute acquisitions that provide complementary products or services, add proven technology and an established client base, expand our intellectual property portfolio or address a highly specialized problem or a market niche. Since the beginning of 2011, we have spent approximately $991 million to acquire eight businesses in the financial services industry, using a combination of cash and debt financing (as discussed in Notes 6 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements). The following table lists the businesses we have acquired since January 1, 2011: Acquired Business Acquisition Date Acquired Capabilities, Products and Services Prime Management Limited October 2013 Expanded fund administration services in the insurance linked securities market Hedgemetrix LLC October 2012 Expanded fund administration services in southwest USA Gravity September 2012 Expanded fund administration services in northeast USA GlobeOp June 2012 Expanded fund administration services in hedge fund and other asset management sectors The PORTIA Business May 2012 Added portfolio management software and outsourcing services for institutional managers Acquisition of Teledata Communications, Inc. Software December 2011 Added background search and credit retrieval software-as-a-service Ireland Fund Admin September 2011 Expanded fund administration services to UCITS funds BenefitsXML March 2011 Added employee benefits administration solutions The discussion in this Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes the operations of the business listed in the table above for the respective time periods each was owned by SS&C. Results of Operations Revenues Our revenues consist primarily of software-enabled services and maintenance revenues, and, to a lesser degree, software license and professional services revenues. As a general matter, fluctuations in our software-enabled services revenues are attributable to the number of new software-enabled services clients as well as total assets under management in our clients portfolios and the number of outsourced transactions provided to our existing clients, while our software license and professional services revenues tend to fluctuate based on the number of new licensing clients. Maintenance revenues vary based on the rate by which we add or lose maintenance clients over time and, to a lesser extent, on the annual increases in maintenance fees, which are generally tied to the consumer price index. 36 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage of our total revenues represented by each of the following sources of revenues for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Revenues: Software-enabled services 78 % 74 % 67 % Software licenses 4 4 6 Maintenance 14 17 21 Professional services 4 5 6 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The following table sets forth revenues (dollars in thousands) and percent change in revenues for the periods indicated: Percent Change from Prior Year Ended December 31, Period 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 Revenues: Software-enabled services $ 552,565 $ 406,477 $ 246,007 36 % 65 % Software licenses 28,687 22,466 23,507 28 (4 ) Maintenance 103,409 93,760 78,266 10 20 Professional services 28,041 29,139 23,048 (4 ) 26 Total revenues $ 712,702 $ 551,842 $ 370,828 29 49 Fiscal 2013 versus Fiscal 2012. Our revenues increased in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to revenues related to our 2012 acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, for which revenues increased $119.2 million, reflecting a full year of activity, as well as a continued increase in demand for our hedge fund and private equity services from alternative investment managers. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of $2.0 million, which resulted from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to currencies such as the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. Our software licenses revenues in 2013 increased by $6.2 million from 2012 due to increased demand for our PORTIA, CAMRA, and Pages software products, which increased 2013 by approximately $4.8 million in the aggregate, as compared to 2012. Additionally, revenues associated with term licenses increased. Maintenance revenues experienced a substantial increase due to revenues related to the PORTIA Business, which increased $9.6 million in 2013, reflecting a full year of activity. Fiscal 2012 versus Fiscal 2011. Our revenues increased in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to revenues related to our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, which contributed $168.1 million in revenues, as well as a continued increase in demand for our hedge fund and private equity services from alternative investment managers. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of $0.9 million, resulting from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to currencies such as the Canadian dollar, the Euro and the British pound. Our maintenance and professional services revenues experienced substantial increases due to revenues related to the PORTIA Business, which contributed $16.4 million in 2012 and $3.1 million, respectively. Additionally, professional services revenues experienced an increase in product implementation projects. Cost of Revenues Cost of software-enabled services revenues consists primarily of the cost related to personnel utilized in servicing our software-enabled services clients and amortization of intangible assets. Cost of software license revenues consists primarily of amortization of completed technology, royalties, third-party software, and the costs of product media, packaging and documentation. Cost of maintenance revenues consists primarily of technical client support, costs associated with the distribution of products and regulatory updates and amortization of intangible assets. Cost of professional services revenues consists primarily of the cost related to personnel utilized to provide implementation, conversion and training services to our software licensees, as well as system integration and custom programming consulting services. 37 Table of Contents The following table sets forth each of the following cost of revenues as a percentage of their respective revenue source for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Cost of revenues: Cost of software-enabled services 58 % 58 % 52 % Cost of software licenses 18 28 29 Cost of maintenance 40 43 45 Cost of professional services 70 65 67 Total cost of revenues 55 54 50 Gross margin percentage 45 46 50 The following table sets forth cost of revenues (dollars in thousands) and percent change in cost of revenues for the periods indicated: Percent Change from Prior Year Ended December 31, Period 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 Cost of revenues: Cost of software-enabled services $ 322,719 $ 234,214 $ 126,921 38 % 85 % Cost of software licenses 5,302 6,336 6,825 (16 ) (7 ) Cost of maintenance 41,046 40,394 34,993 2 15 Cost of professional services 19,733 18,973 15,549 4 22 Total cost of revenues $ 388,800 $ 299,917 $ 184,288 30 63 Fiscal 2013 versus Fiscal 2012. Our gross margin decreased slightly in 2013 primarily due to an increase in amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired in the acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, partially offset by cost synergies with respect to the acquired businesses. Our total cost of revenues increased in 2013 primarily due to our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in costs of $3.0 million related to the favorable effect of foreign currency translation resulting from the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to currencies such as the Indian rupee and the Canadian dollar. Additionally, cost of software-enabled services revenues increased to support the increased demand for our hedge fund and private equity services from alternative investment managers. Fiscal 2012 versus Fiscal 2011. Our gross margin decreased in 2012 primarily due to amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired in the acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business. Our total cost of revenue increased in 2012 primarily as a result of costs associated with acquired businesses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation due to the final vesting of performance-based stock options in 2011 and in costs of $0.7 million related to the favorable effect of foreign currency translation. Additionally, cost of software-enabled services revenues increased to support the increased demand for our hedge fund and private equity services from alternative investment managers. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of the personnel costs associated with the selling and marketing of our products, including salaries, commissions and travel and entertainment. Such expenses also include amortization of intangible assets, the cost of branch sales offices, trade shows and marketing and promotional materials. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs attributable to the enhancement of existing products and the development of new software products. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs related to management, accounting and finance, information management, human resources and administration and associated overhead costs, as well as fees for professional services. Transaction costs consist primarily of legal, third-party valuation and other fees related to our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business. 38 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage of our total revenues represented by each of the following operating expenses for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 6 % 6 % 8 % Research and development 8 8 10 General and administrative 6 6 8 Transaction costs 3 Total operating expenses 20 23 25 The following table sets forth operating expenses (dollars in thousands) and percent change in operating expenses for the periods indicated: Percent Change from Prior Year Ended December 31, Period 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing $ 41,885 $ 33,858 $ 28,892 24 % 17 % Research and development 53,862 45,779 35,650 18 28 General and administrative 45,187 34,797 28,221 30 23 Transaction costs 14,275 (100 ) Total operating expenses $ 140,934 $ 128,709 $ 92,763 9 39 Fiscal 2013 versus 2012. The increase in total operating expenses in 2013 was primarily due to costs related to GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, reflecting a full year of activity, and an increase in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease in costs of $0.9 million related to the favorable impact from foreign currency translation, resulting from the relative strength of the U.S. dollar to currencies such as the Indian rupee. Fiscal 2012 versus 2011. The increase in total operating expenses in 2012 was primarily due to our acquisitions and the transaction costs associated with our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense and a decrease in costs of $0.4 million related to the favorable effect of foreign currency translation. Comparison of Fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 for Interest, Taxes and Other Interest income and interest expense. We had interest expense of $42.4 million in 2013 compared to $32.9 million in 2012 and $14.7 million in 2011. The increase in interest expense in 2013 reflected a full year of interest associated with the credit facility that we entered into during the second quarter of 2012 in connection with our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, partially offset by a decrease in average interest rates. We had interest income of $1.1 million in 2013 compared to $0.4 million in 2012 and $0.1 million in 2011. The increase in interest income in 2013 and 2012 resulted from higher average cash balances. The increase in interest expense in 2012 reflects the higher average debt balance resulting from the credit facility that we entered into in connection with our acquisitions of GlobeOp and the PORTIA Business, and the related amortization of an original issue discount. The credit facility is discussed further in Liquidity and Capital Resources. 39 Table of Contents Other income (expense), net. Other income, net for 2013 consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction gains. Other expense, net for 2012 consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction losses and a loss recorded on foreign currency contracts associated with our acquisition of GlobeOp, which is discussed further in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. Other (expense) income, net for 2011 consisted primarily of changes in accrued earn-out liabilities and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Loss on extinguishment of debt. Loss on extinguishment of debt in 2012 consisted of write-offs of deferred financing costs associated with the repayment of our prior senior credit facility. Loss on extinguishment of debt in 2011 consisted of note redemption premiums and write-offs of deferred financing costs associated with the redemption of the remaining $133.3 million of our 11 3 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2013. The redemption of our notes is discussed further in Liquidity and Capital Resources. Provision for Income Taxes. The following table sets forth the provision for income taxes (dollars in thousands) and effective tax rates for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Provision for income taxes $ 27,292 $ 24,665 $ 22,918 Effective tax rate 19 % 35 % 31 % Our 2013, 2012 and 2011 effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to the effect of our foreign operations. The decrease in effective rate from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to an increase in operations outside the United States, which are subject to lower tax rates than the U.S. statutory rate, research and development tax credits, a release of an uncertain income tax position, a decrease in the impact of foreign valuation allowances and non-deductible transaction costs in 2012. The increase in effective rate from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to the impact of a valuation allowance recorded on deferred tax assets and non-deductible transaction costs, partially offset by the favorable impact of a rate change in the United Kingdom. We had $128.7 million of deferred tax liabilities and $25.9 million of deferred tax assets at December 31, 2013. Our effective tax rate includes the effect of operations outside the United States, which historically have been taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate. While we have income from multiple foreign sources, the majority of our non-U.S. operations are in Canada, India and the United Kingdom, where the statutory rates were 26.5%, 34.0% and 23.3%, respectively, in 2013 and 26.5%, 32.4% and 24.5%, respectively, in 2012. The statutory rates for Canada and the United Kingdom were 28.2% and 26.0% in 2011. A future proportionate change in the composition of income before income taxes from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions could impact our periodic effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development and to acquire complementary businesses or assets. We expect our cash on hand and cash flows from operations to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements and capital spending for at least the next twelve months. Our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2013 were $84.5 million, a decrease of $1.7 million from $86.2 million at December 31, 2012. The decrease in cash is due primarily to cash used for repayments of debt and capital expenditures, partially offset by cash provided by operations and proceeds from stock option exercises and the related income tax benefits. Net cash provided by operating activities was $208.3 million in 2013. Cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from net income of $117.9 million adjusted for non-cash items of $79.7 million and changes in our working capital accounts (excluding the effect of acquisitions) totaling $10.7 million. The changes in our working capital accounts were driven by changes in income taxes prepaid and payable and an increase in accrued expenses and a decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets and decreases in accounts payable and deferred revenues. The change in income taxes prepaid and payable was primarily related to the utilization of prepaid taxes in 2013. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to timing of payments. 40 Table of Contents Investing activities used net cash of $17.9 million in 2013, primarily related to $11.9 million in cash paid for capital expenditures, $3.7 million in cash paid for our acquisition of Prime Management Limited, and $2.4 million in cash paid for capitalized software. Financing activities used net cash of $189.8 million in 2013, representing $239.0 million in repayments of debt, $1.9 million in deferred financing costs, and $0.9 million in the purchases of common stock for treasury, partially offset by proceeds of $27.8 million from stock option exercises and income tax windfall benefits of $24.2 million related to the exercise of stock options. We have made a permanent reinvestment determination in certain non-U.S. operations that have historically generated positive operating cash flows. At December 31, 2013, we held approximately $55.3 million in cash and cash equivalents at non-U.S. subsidiaries where we had made such a determination and in turn no provision for U.S. income taxes had been made. At December 31, 2013, we held approximately $24.0 million in cash by subsidiaries of SS&C Technologies Holdings Europe S.A.R.L., or SS&C Sarl, the foreign borrower under our credit facility that will be used to facilitate debt servicing of SS&C Sarl. At December 31, 2013, we held approximately $19.3 million in cash at our Indian operations that if repatriated to our foreign debt holder would incur distribution taxes of approximately $3.3 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013 that require us to make future cash payments (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years All Other Short-term and long-term debt $ 782,000 $ 23,212 $ 61,015 $ 160,231 $ 537,542 $ Interest payments(1) 117,635 24,286 46,222 39,420 7,707 Operating lease obligations(2) 84,186 13,878 26,060 18,900 25,348 Purchase obligations(3) 14,501 6,889 5,217 2,395 Uncertain tax positions and related interest(4) 7,760 7,760 Total contractual obligations $ 1,006,082 $ 68,265 $ 138,514 $ 220,946 $ 570,597 $ 7,760 (1) Reflects interest payments on our Credit Facility at an assumed interest rate of one-month LIBOR of 0.17% plus 2.50% for U.S. dollar loans on our Term A-2 facility and 3.25% on our Term B-1 and B-2 facilities. On February 12, 2014, we completed a repricing of our Term A-2 facility. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. (2) We are obligated under noncancelable operating leases for office space and office equipment. The lease for the corporate facility in Windsor, Connecticut expires in 2022. We sublease office space under noncancelable leases. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 we received rental income under these leases of $1.3 million, $1.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively. The effect of the rental income to be received in the future has not been included in the table above. 41 Table of Contents (3) Purchase obligations include the minimum amounts committed under contracts for goods and services. (4) As of December 31, 2013, our liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable was $7.6 million and $0.1 million, respectively. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of such liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Credit Facility On March 14, 2012, in connection with our acquisition of GlobeOp, we entered into a credit agreement with SS&C and SS&C Sarl as the borrowers, which we refer to as the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement has four tranches of term loans: (i) a $0 term A-1 facility with a five and one-half year term for borrowings by SS&C, (ii) a $325.0 million term A-2 facility with a five and one-half year term for borrowings by SS&C Sarl, (iii) a $725.0 million term B-1 facility with a seven year term for borrowings by SS&C and (iv) a $75.0 million term B-2 facility with a seven year term for borrowings by SS&C Sarl. In addition, the Credit Agreement had a $142.0 million bridge loan facility, of which $31.6 million was immediately drawn, with a 364-day term available for borrowings by SS&C Sarl and has a revolving credit facility with a five and one-half year term available for borrowings by SS&C with $100.0 million in commitments. The revolving credit facility contains a $25.0 million letter of credit sub-facility and a $20.0 million swingline loan sub-facility. The bridge loan was repaid in July 2012 and is no longer available for borrowing. The term loans and the revolving credit facility bear interest, at the election of the borrowers, at the base rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or LIBOR, plus the applicable interest rate margin for the revolving credit facility. The term A loans and the revolving credit facility initially bore interest at either LIBOR plus 2.75% or at the base rate plus 1.75%, and then will be subject to a step-down at any time SS&Cs consolidated net senior secured leverage ratio is less than 3.00 times, to 2.50% in the case of the LIBOR margin, and 1.50% in the case of the base rate margin. In February 2014, we completed a repricing of our term A loans, which replaced these loans with new term A loans at the same outstanding principal balance, but at a different interest rate. The applicable interest rates have been reduced to either LIBOR plus 2.0% or the base rate plus 1.0%. The maturity date of the new loans remains December 8, 2017, and no changes were made to the financial accounts or scheduled amortization. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. In June 2013, we completed a repricing of our term B-1 loans and term B-2 loans, which replaced these loans with new term B-1 loans and term B-2 loans at the same outstanding principal balance, but at a different interest rate. The applicable interest rates have been reduced to either LIBOR plus 2.75% or the base rate plus 1.75%, and the LIBOR floor has been reduced from 1.00% to 0.75%, subject to a step-down at any time that the consolidated net senior secured leverage ratio is less than 2.75 times, to 2.50% in the case of the LIBOR margin, and 1.50% in the case of the base rate margin. The maturity date of the new loans remains June 8, 2019, and no changes were made to the financial covenants or scheduled amortization. The initial proceeds of the borrowings under the Credit Agreement were used to satisfy a portion of the consideration required to fund our acquisition of GlobeOp and refinance amounts outstanding under SS&Cs prior senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2013, there was $215.9 million in principal amount outstanding under the term A-2 facility, $513.0 million in principal amount outstanding under the term B-1 facility and $53.1 million in principal amount outstanding under the term B-2 facility. Holdings, SS&C and the material domestic subsidiaries of SS&C have pledged substantially all of their tangible and intangible assets to support the obligations of SS&C and SS&C Sarl under the Credit Agreement. In addition, SS&C Sarl has agreed, in certain circumstances, to cause subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions to guarantee SS&C Sarls obligations and pledge substantially all of their assets to support the obligations of SS&C Sarl under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, pay dividends, incur debt or liens, redeem or repurchase equity, enter into transactions with affiliates, make investments, merge or consolidate with others or dispose of assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring SS&C to maintain a consolidated net senior secured leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with the financial and non-financial covenants. 42 Table of Contents The Credit Agreement contains various events of default (including failure to comply with the covenants contained in the Credit Agreement and related agreements) and upon an event of default, the lenders may, subject to various customary cure rights, require the immediate repayment of all amounts outstanding under the term loans, the bridge loans and the revolving credit facility and foreclose on the collateral. Covenant Compliance Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests. As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with the financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our continued ability to meet this financial ratio and these tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet this ratio and these tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Consolidated EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure used in key financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, which is a material facility supporting our capital structure and providing liquidity to our business. Consolidated EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments permitted in calculating covenant compliance under the Credit Agreement. We believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to EBITDA applied in presenting Consolidated EBITDA is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with the specified financial ratio and other financial condition tests contained in the Credit Agreement. Management uses Consolidated EBITDA to gauge the costs of our capital structure on a day-to-day basis when full financial statements are unavailable. Management further believes that providing this information allows our investors greater transparency and a better understanding of our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make capital expenditures. Any breach of covenants in the Credit Agreement that are tied to ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA could result in a default under that agreement, in which case the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed immediately due and payable and to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Any default and subsequent acceleration of payments under the Credit Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional indebtedness, making investments and paying dividends is also tied to ratios based on Consolidated EBITDA. Consolidated EBITDA does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as those terms are defined by generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and does not necessarily indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. Further, the Credit Agreement requires that Consolidated EBITDA be calculated for the most recent four fiscal quarters. As a result, the measure can be disproportionately affected by a particularly strong or weak quarter. Further, it may not be comparable to the measure for any subsequent four-quarter period or any complete fiscal year. Consolidated EBITDA is not a recognized measurement under GAAP and investors should not consider Consolidated EBITDA as a substitute for measures of our financial performance and liquidity as determined in accordance with GAAP, such as net income, operating income or net cash provided by operating activities. Because other companies may calculate Consolidated EBITDA differently than we do, Consolidated EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Consolidated EBITDA has other limitations as an analytical tool, when compared to the use of net income, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, including: Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the provision of income tax expense in our various jurisdictions; Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense we incur as a result of our debt leverage; Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect any attribution of costs to our operations related to our investments and capital expenditures through depreciation and amortization charges; Consolidated EBITDA does not reflect the cost of compensation we provide to our employees in the form of stock option awards; and Consolidated EBITDA excludes expenses that we believe are unusual or non-recurring, but which others may believe are normal expenses for the operation of a business. 43 Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of net income to Consolidated EBITDA as defined in our senior credit facility. Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (In thousands) Net income $ 117,895 $ 45,820 $ 51,021 Interest expense, net (1) 41,279 36,856 19,415 Income tax provision 27,292 24,665 22,918 Depreciation and amortization 99,780 75,814 42,224 EBITDA 286,246 183,155 135,578 Purchase accounting adjustments (2) (52 ) 894 (373 ) Capital-based taxes 182 (785 ) 354 Unusual or non-recurring charges (gains) (3) (3,121 ) 31,629 2,355 Acquired EBITDA (4) 890 35,531 1,192 Stock-based compensation 8,386 5,590 13,493 Other (5) 235 (17 ) (183 ) Consolidated EBITDA, as defined $ 292,766 $ 255,997 $ 152,416 (1) Interest expense includes loss from extinguishment of debt shown as a separate line item on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (2) Purchase accounting adjustments include (a) an adjustment to increase rent expense by the amount that would have been recognized if lease obligations were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions and (b) an adjustment to increase revenues by the amount that would have been recognized if deferred revenue were not adjusted to fair value at the date of acquisitions. (3) Unusual or non-recurring charges include transaction costs, losses on currency contracts, foreign currency gains and losses, severance expenses, proceeds from legal and other settlements and other one-time expenses, such as expenses associated with the bond redemptions and acquisitions. (4) Acquired EBITDA reflects the EBITDA impact of significant businesses that were acquired during the period as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period. (5) Other includes the non-cash portion of straight-line rent expense. Our covenant requirement for net senior secured leverage ratio and the actual ratio for the year ended December 31, 2013 are as follows: Covenant Requirement Actual Ratio Maximum consolidated net senior secured leverage to Consolidated EBITDA ratio (1) 5.50 x 2.38 x (1) Calculated as the ratio of consolidated senior secured funded debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the Credit Agreement, for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the measurement date. Consolidated senior secured funded debt is comprised of indebtedness for borrowed money, notes, bonds or similar instruments, letters of credit, deferred purchase price obligations and capital lease obligations. This covenant is applied at the end of each quarter. 44 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates A number of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by our management, and such judgments are reflected in the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of estimates. Those estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, managements observation of trends in the industry, information provided by our clients and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets and other contingent liabilities. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates contained in our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following are our critical accounting policies. Revenue Recognition Our revenues consist primarily of software-enabled services and maintenance revenues, and, to a lesser degree, software license and professional services revenues. Software-enabled services revenues, which are based on a monthly fee or are transaction-based, are recognized as the services are performed. Software-enabled services are generally provided under non-cancelable contracts with initial terms of one to five years that require monthly or quarterly payments, and are subject to automatic annual renewal at the end of the initial term unless terminated by either party. We recognize software-enabled services revenues on a monthly basis as the software-enabled services are provided and when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. We do not recognize any revenues before services are performed. Certain contracts contain additional fees for increases in market value, pricing and trading activity. Revenues related to these additional fees are recognized in the month in which the activity occurs based upon our summarization of account information and trading volume. We recognize revenues from the sale of software licenses when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Our products generally do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software and, accordingly, the implementation services we provide are not considered essential to the functionality of the software. We use a signed license agreement as evidence of an arrangement for the majority of our transactions. Delivery generally occurs when the product is delivered to a common carrier F.O.B. shipping point, or if delivered electronically, when the client has been provided with access codes that allow for immediate possession via a download. Although our arrangements generally do not have acceptance provisions, if such provisions are included in the arrangement, then delivery occurs at acceptance, unless such acceptance is deemed perfunctory. At the time of the transaction, we assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms. Collection is assessed based on several factors, including past transaction history with the client and the creditworthiness of the client. The arrangements for perpetual software licenses are generally sold with maintenance and professional services. We allocate revenue to the delivered components, normally the license component, using the residual value method based on vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value of the undelivered elements. The total contract value is attributed first to the maintenance and customer support arrangement based on the fair value, which is derived from substantive renewal rates. Fair value of the professional services is based upon stand-alone sales of those services. Professional services are generally billed at an hourly rate plus out-of-pocket expenses. Professional services revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Maintenance agreements generally require us to provide technical support and software updates to our clients (on a when-and-if-available basis). We generally provide maintenance services under one-year renewable contracts. Maintenance revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. We also sell term licenses with maintenance. These arrangements range from one to seven years where vendor-specific objective evidence does not exist for the maintenance element in the term licenses. Revenues are recognized ratably over the contractual term of the arrangement. 45 Table of Contents We occasionally enter into software license agreements requiring significant customization or fixed-fee professional service arrangements. We account for these arrangements in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method based on the ratio of hours incurred to expected total hours; accordingly we must estimate the costs to complete the arrangement utilizing an estimate of man-hours remaining. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is at least reasonably possible that completion costs may be revised. Such revisions are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Due to the complexity of some software license agreements, we routinely apply judgments to the application of software revenue recognition accounting principles to specific agreements and transactions. Different judgments or different contract structures could have led to different accounting conclusions, which could have a material effect on our reported results of operations. Long-lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill We must test goodwill annually for impairment (and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired). Historically, we have tested the recoverability of goodwill based on our reporting unit structure by comparing fair value to carrying value. To the extent that we do not achieve our revenue or operating cash flow plans or other measures of fair value decline, including external valuation assumptions, our current goodwill carrying value could be impaired. Additionally, since fair value is also based in part on the market approach, if our stock price declines, it is possible we could be required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test and impairment could result. The first step of the impairment analysis indicated that the fair value significantly exceeded the carrying value at December 31, 2013. We assess the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles and long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of potential impairment, we assess whether an impairment has occurred based on whether net book value of the assets exceeds related projected undiscounted cash flows from these assets. We consider a number of factors, including past operating results, budgets, economic projections, market trends and product development cycles in estimating future cash flows. Differing estimates and assumptions as to any of the factors described above could result in a materially different impairment charge, if any, and thus materially different results of operations. Acquisition Accounting In connection with our acquisitions, we allocate the purchase price to the assets and liabilities we acquire, such as net tangible assets, completed technology, in-process research and development, client contracts, other identifiable intangible assets, deferred revenue and goodwill. We applied significant judgments and estimates in determining the fair market value of the assets acquired and their useful lives. For example, we have determined the fair value of existing client contracts based on the discounted estimated net future cash flows from such client contracts existing at the date of acquisition and the fair value of the completed technology based on the relief-from-royalties method on estimated future revenues of such completed technology and assumed obsolescence factors. While actual results during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were consistent with our estimated cash flows and we did not incur any impairment charges during those years, different estimates and assumptions in valuing acquired assets could yield materially different results. 46 Table of Contents Stock-based Compensation Using the fair value recognition provisions of relevant accounting literature, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the appropriate service period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards requires considerable judgment, including estimating the expected term of stock options, expected volatility of our stock price, and the number of awards expected to be forfeited. In addition, for stock-based awards where vesting is dependent upon achieving certain operating performance goals, we estimate the likelihood of achieving the performance goals. Differences between actual results and these estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. A deferred income tax asset is recorded over the vesting period as stock compensation expense is recorded for non-qualified stock options. The realizability of the deferred tax asset is ultimately based on the actual value of the stock-based award upon exercise. If the actual value is lower than the fair value determined on the date of grant, then there could be an income tax expense for the portion of the deferred tax asset that is not realizable. Income Taxes The carrying value of our deferred tax assets assumes that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate whether deferred tax assets are realizable and assess whether there is a need for additional valuation allowances. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets and liabilities is recorded based on the statutory rates that we expect our deferred tax assets and liabilities to reverse into income. We estimate the state rate at which our deferred tax assets and liabilities will reverse based on estimates of state income apportionment for future years. Each of these estimates requires significant judgment on the part of our management. In addition, we evaluate the need to provide additional tax provisions for adjustments proposed by taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2013, we had $7.6 million in liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits. All of the unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate and increase our net income. We recognize accrued interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which amends the accounting guidance for the presentation of comprehensive income to improve the reporting of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The amendments do not change the current requirements for reporting net income or other comprehensive income, but do require an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is required under GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about these amounts. For public companies, these amendments are effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. The new guidance affects disclosures only and did not have any impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU No. 2012-02, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350) Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, or ASU 2012-02, to simplify how entities, both public and nonpublic, test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. ASU 2012-02 is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. The adoption of this standard in the first quarter of 2013 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists, or ASU 2012-02. The objective is to end some inconsistent practices with regard to the presentation on the balance sheet of unrecognized tax benefits. ASU 2012-02 is effective for financial statement periods beginning after December 15, 2013, wither early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt this standard beginning January 1, 2014. The Company does not expect these changes to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 47 Table of Contents