Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes included in Item 1, Financial Statements, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 and in Item 1A. Risk Factors, of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2023. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a pre-clinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Core-Business Focus Program On May 15, 2023, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized, and the Company commenced, a core-business focus program while the Company seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. This core-business focus program includes the cessation of research and development activities not related to LIBERTY, including terminating the Companys agreement with CardioSert for that technology, and returning intellectual property relating to the SCS (ViRob) and TipCat to Technion Research and Development Foundation. Cost Reduction Plan In addition to the core-business focus program described above, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized, and the Company commenced, a cost reduction plan while the Company seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. In May and June 2023, we raised sufficient capital that, together with the ongoing savings from the cost reduction plan, has enabled us to continue our operations through approximately April of 2024, including completion of the V&V study, perform the GLP study and submit the IDE to the US Food & Drug Administration. We also, retroactive to November 1, 2023, recommenced paying Rachel Vaknin, our CFO, and Simon Sharon, our CTO and General Manager, their regular salaries and benefits that were previously reduced as a result of the cost reduction plan. Continuing the continuing commitment of Harel Gadot, our CEO, to the Company to support it financially while it completes its current development and regulatory activities, his compensation will continue to be subject to his 50% reduction as part of the cost reduction plan. We continue to seek new sources of capital to stabilize our finances and provide operating runway subsequent to April of 2024. In the event the Company is not successful in raising additional capital by April of 2024, or if the results of the V&V study and first-in-human trials are not promising, the Company may be forced to take more drastic actions to conserve capital or shut down operations entirely. 13 First-In-Human Clinical Cases Subject to the final report from our recently completed pivotal pre-clinical study using the LIBERTY Robotic Surgical System which is expected before the end of 2023, and the completion of the verification and validation (V&V) process of which certain phases have been completed but others are ongoing and may be subject to delays indirectly caused by the Israel-Hamas war described below, we plan on submitting the Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in the first quarter of 2024, in order to commence a pivotal clinical trial in humans. In addition, we are considering secondary options and contingencies in the event the IDE application is delayed. After initially considering potential First-In-Human cases in Brazil, by engaging with interventional radiologist Prof. Francisco Cesar Carnevale from University of Sao Paulo Medical School Hospital, we determined that first-in-human clinical trials in Brazil have similar requirements as in the United States. Furthermore, we are still in the process of evaluating the potential of utilizing Greece as an option to carry our First-In Human Cases. However, although we believe Brazil and Greece remain strategically important for commercialization of our LIBERTY device, we decided not to pursue First-In-Human trials or cases outside of the United States at this time to avoid conflict with our FDA submission process. Israel-Hamas War On October 7, 2023, the State of Israel, where the Companys operations are primarily based, suffered a surprise attack by hostile forces from Gaza, which led to the declaration by Israel of the Iron Swords military operation. This military operation and related activities are on-going as of the issuance date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Consequently: Some of the Companys Israeli subcontractors, vendors, suppliers and other companies in which the Company relies, are currently only partially active, as instructed by the relevant authorities, which has caused delays in aspects of our development and regulatory activities; The lack of international flights in and out of Israel may affect the Companys ability to import materials that are required to construct the Companys devices which are required to complete development and regulatory activities; and The lack of international flights in and out of Israel may affect the Companys commercial and regulatory activities. The Company is currently assessing whether there are any material adverse effects on its anticipated milestones and results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2023 and perhaps beyond due to the military operation and related matters, the extent of which cannot be estimated at this stage. Technological Platforms LIBERTY On January 13, 2020, Microbot unveiled what it believes is the worlds first fully disposable robotic system for use in endovascular interventional procedures, such as cardiovascular, peripheral and neurovascular. The LIBERTY robotic system features a unique compact design with the capability to be operated remotely, reduce radiation exposure and physical strain to the physician, reduce the risk of cross contamination, as well as the potential to eliminate the use of multiple consumables when used with its NovaCross platform or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies. LIBERTY is designed to maneuver guidewires and over-the-wire devices (such as microcatheters) within the bodys vasculature. It eliminates the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated Cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. We believe LIBERTYs addressable markets are the Interventional Cardiology, Interventional Radiology and Interventional Neuroradiology markets. The unique characteristics of LIBERTY compact, mobile, disposable and remotely controlled - open the opportunity of expanding telerobotic interventions to patients with limited access to life-saving procedures, such as mechanical thrombectomy in ischemic stroke. 14 LIBERTY is being designed to have the following attributes: Compact size - Eliminates the need for large capital equipment in dedicated cath-lab rooms with dedicated staff. Fully disposable - To our knowledge, the first and only fully disposable, robotic system for endovascular procedures. One & Done Can be made compatible with Microbots NitiLoops NovaCross products or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies, that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. State of the art maneuverability - Provides linear, rotational and tip control of its guidewire, as well as linear motion for an additional over the wire device. Compatibility with a wide range of commercially-available guidewires, microcatheters and guide-catheters. Enhanced operator safety and comfort Aims to reduce exposure to ionizing radiation and the need for heavy lead vests otherwise to be worn during procedures, as well as reducing the exposure to Hospital Acquired Infections (HAI). Ease of use - LIBERTYs intuitive remote controls aims to simplify advanced procedures while shortening the physicians learning curve. Telemedicine compatible - Capable of supporting tele-catheterization, carried out remotely by highly trained specialists. On August 17, 2020, Microbot announced the successful conclusion of its feasibility animal study using the LIBERTY robotic system. The study met all of its end points with no intraoperative adverse events, which supports Microbots objectives to allow physicians to conduct a catheter-based procedure from outside the catheterization laboratory (cath-lab), avoiding radiation exposure, physical strain and the risk of cross contamination. The study was performed by two leading physicians in the neuro vascular and peripheral vascular intervention spaces, and the results demonstrated robust navigation capabilities, intuitive usability and accurate deployment of embolic agents, most of which was conducted remotely from the cath-labs control room. On December 22, 2021, we entered into a strategic collaboration agreement for technology co-development with Stryker Corporation, acting through its Neurovascular Division. Pursuant to the agreement, the collaborative development program between Stryker and us aims to integrate certain of Strykers instruments with our LIBERTY Robotic System to address certain neurovascular procedures. The activities contemplated by the Agreement shall be specified in one or more development plans derived from the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. We are still determining scheduling to move the collaboration forward. In December 2021, we achieved design freeze of the LIBERTY device. In the first quarter of 2022, we filed our pre-submission package for the LIBERTY Robotic System with the FDA, addressing the regulatory pathway for the LIBERTY Robotic System. On July 22, 2022, the Company completed a pre-submission process with the FDA regarding the LIBERTY device. Formal feedback from the FDA included a recommendation to perform a clinical study and a human factors validation study, to support clearance through the 510(k) notification process. In September and October 2022, the Company conducted an animal study at an FDA accredited European-based MedTech research laboratory, which was performed by a team of seasoned Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) in the endovascular space, using porcine model. During the animal study, the physicians conducted 63 navigations to the targeted sites using the investigational LIBERTY Robotic System and performed an equal number of procedures manually. The LIBERTY Robotic System received positive feedback from participating physicians, and there were no observable immediate intraoperative adverse events, or harm, to the test subjects. The report from the animal study, which included histopathology data (the microscopic examination of tissue to study the manifestations of disease), exhibited equivocal results which were identified as related to unusual physiological animal responses in both manual and robotic test groups. 15 The Company believes the results of the study allow it to move forward and focus on the next phases to ultimately include a U.S.-based pivotal pre-clinical study. The Company, together with its regulatory experts and consultants, believe a larger sample size and robust data generated by this study will advance the Companys efforts towards the submission of an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). On May 3, 2023, we announced that the LIBERTY Robotic system has surpassed its 100th catheterization during multiple pre-clinical studies, with a 95% success rate of reaching pre-determined vascular targets, such as distal branches of hepatic, gastric, splenic, mesenteric, renal and hypogastric arteries. Moreover, all of the procedures were completed without notable signs of intraoperative injury. On June 29, 2023, we announced the successful completion of a two-day pre-clinical study held by leading key opinion leaders at a New York-based research lab, where they performed dozens of catheterizations, including the utilization of the LIBERTY Robotic Surgical Systems remote operation capabilities, to pre-determined vascular targets, with a 100% success rate of reaching the intended target with no observable on-site complications. In October 2023, we announced the successful initial outcomes from our pivotal pre-clinical study with the LIBERTY Robotic Surgical System. The pivotal study was conducted by three leading interventional radiologists that utilized the LIBERTY Robotic Surgical System to reach a total of 48 animal targets. A total of 6 LIBERTY Systems were used in the study, and each was used to reach a total of 8 targets. All 6 LIBERTY Systems performed flawlessly, with 100% usability and technical success. No acute adverse events or complications were visually observed intra-operative. We expect to receive the comprehensive final report later in the fourth quarter of 2023. Subject to the final report, and the completion of the verification and validation process which is ongoing but subject to delays indirectly caused by the Israel-Hamas war described above, we plan on submitting the Investigational Device Exemption application to the FDA in the first quarter of 2024, in order to commence our pivotal clinical trial in humans. On October 24, 2023, we announced that we received confirmation for the commencement of the process to support our future CE Mark approval, and to ultimately allow us to market the LIBERTY Robotic Surgical System in Europe as well as other regions who accept the CE Mark. According to the confirmation, we will commence audits for ISO 13485 certification to ensure our compliance with the Quality Management System (QMS) requirements of the EU Medical Devices Regulation (MDR 2017/745), during the first half of 2024. We had previously taken the first step to advance our European program by engaging with a leading Notified Body, who recently confirmed dates for conducting the required audits. NovaCrossTM On October 6, 2022, we purchased substantially all of the assets, including intellectual property, devices, components and product related materials of Nitiloop Ltd., an Israeli limited liability company. The assets include intellectual property and technology in the field of intraluminal revascularization devices with anchoring mechanism and integrated microcatheter, and the products or potential products incorporating the technology owned by Nitiloop and designated by Nitiloop as NovaCross, NovaCross Xtreme and NovaCross BTK and any enhancements, modifications and improvements. This technology is also expected to be incorporated in our One & Done feature. Other Technologies and Platforms During the second and third quarters of 2023, as a result of our core-business focus program and our cost reduction plan, we ceased research and development activities relating to the technology we acquired from CardioSert, and with respect to our SCS and TipCat platforms. As a result, we terminated the Companys agreement with CardioSert for that technology, and returned intellectual property relating to the SCS (ViRob) and TipCat to Technion Research and Development Foundation. 16 Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio, net of government grants. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries and benefits, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting and legal services, and allocated overhead expenses. Microbot has cut its general and administrative expenses in May 2023 as a result of its core-business focus program and cost reduction program; however, Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses may increase in the future as it incurs expenses relating to its operating activities, maintains and expands its patent portfolio and maintain compliance with exchange listing and public company requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with ASC Topic 450 Contingencies. Accordingly, Management will recognize a liability for a legal contingency when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters in each reporting period in order to determine if any adjustments are required. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. 17 A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Results of Operations Comparison of Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Change 2023 2022 Change Research and development expenses, net $ (1,612 ) $ (1,953 ) $ 341 $ (4,594 ) $ (5,852 ) $ 1,258 General and administrative expenses (932 ) (1,521 ) 589 (3,193 ) (4,361 ) 1,168 Financing income, net 98 6 92 201 43 158 Research and Development Expenses. The decrease in research and development expenses for both periods presented was primarily due to the Companys cost reduction plan (the Plan), which commenced in the second quarter of 2023. The Plan involved cutting expenses by implementing employee terminations, reducing management salaries, and eliminating bonus accruals. Furthermore, the Company has also reduced costs by decreasing expenses related to subcontractors, advisory board members, and patents. Additionally, in comparison to the same period in 2022, the Company incurred expenses in 2022 due to the development of the SCS technology, whereas in 2023, low expenses were recorded for that project as it was suspended in October 2022 and thereafter terminated. General and Administrative Expenses. The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the periods presented was primarily due to lower D&O insurance premiums in 2023 and execution of the Plan, which among other things, involved cutting expenses by implementing employee terminations, reducing management salaries, eliminating bonus accruals and pausing independent directors payments. Additionally, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Company recorded lower share -based compensation expenses compared to the comparable period in 2022, due to older options becoming fully vested. Financing Income, net. The increase in financing income net for the three and nine-month periods presented was primarily due to interest income, which has increased in 2023 due to overall rise in market interest rates earned on the Companys marketable securities, as well as unrealized gains from marketable securities, also due to rising interest rates. 18 Liquidity and Capital Resources Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for all periods presented. As of September 30, 2023, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $6,916,000, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. This compares to net working capital of approximately $6,745,000 as of December 31, 2022. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its primary product candidate and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through September 30, 2023, Microbot has raised cash proceeds of approximately $66,560,000 and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $76,347,000. Microbot returned $3,375,000 (before interest) to an investor as a result of an adverse outcome in a litigation that concluded in the first quarter of 2020 and is now subject to an additional lawsuit seeking the return of an additional $6,750,000 of such proceeds. This litigation is in its discovery stages and recently completed court-ordered mediation, and though management has been defending its position that no return of capital is warranted, we cannot predict what the eventual outcome will be, whether as a result of a courts judgment or a prior settlement. We believe that the uncertainty relating the outcome of this litigation could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through September 30, 2023 in the total amount of approximately $1,656,000. This amount includes advance payment in the third quarter of 2023 of approximately $156,000, which is a portion of additional grants from the IIA in the amount of approximately NIS 1,620,000, which based on an exchange rate on September 30, 2023 of NIS 1.00 = $0.2614, would be approximately $423,000, to further finance the development of our manufacturing process of the LIBERTY robotic surgical system. On January 4, 2018, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with CardioSert to acquire certain of its patent-protected technology. CardioSert received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants, which remains Microbot Israels responsibility for so long as it owns the CardioSert assets. On October 6, 2022, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with Nitiloop Ltd. to acquire substantially all of its assets. Nitiloop received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $925,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grants. The grants are linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of USD LIBOR. Under the terms of the grants and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grants, if the applicable project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. On March 2, 2023, the Company announced that it received approval for a grant from the Ministry of Economy in the amount of approximately NIS 300,000, which based on an exchange rate on such date of NIS 1.00 = $0.27457, would be approximately $82,000, to further finance the marketing activities of the LIBERTY Robotic System in the US market. On November 1, 2023, we received NIS 109,474 (approximately US$27,000) of such amount. In relation to the Ministry of Economy grant, the Company is obligated to pay royalties amounting to between 3%-5% of future sales of the LIBERTY product up to the grant amount plus interest. To date, we have not generated revenues from our operations. As of September 30, 2023, we had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $8,153,000, excluding restricted cash, which management believes is sufficient to fund our operations for approximately five months from the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or through approximately April of 2024, as a result of our recently enacted cost reduction plan. However, in the event we are unsuccessful in our current litigation discussed above, pursuant to which certain investors are seeking the return of $6,750,000 in proceeds we received from them in a 2017 stock offering, we will not have funds to continue our operation. As a result of the foregoing and our current cash position, these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern beyond approximately the next five months (or earlier in the event of an adverse judgment or settlement in the litigation), which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, expand our business and develop our planned products. 19 During the second fiscal quarter of 2023, Microbot commenced a core-business focus program and a cost reduction plan while it seeks to raise sufficient additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. In May and June 2023, Microbot raised aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $7.56 million, before fees and expenses of approximately $1.1 million, from investors, to continue to fund its operations and research and development activities, and will need additional funds to continue the FDA approval process for the Liberty device after the first quarter of 2024. To the extent available, Microbot intends to raise capital through future public and private issuances of debt and/or equity securities. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs, at the times it needs it or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. As a result of the foregoing, we are unable to fully implement our business plan without raising additional capital, if at all, and these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated interim financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on recoverability and reclassification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods presented (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Net cash flows used in operating activities $ (6,712 ) $ (9,086 ) Net cash flows used in investing activities (984 ) (83 ) Net cash flows provided by financing activities 6,558 - Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (1,138 ) $ (9,169 ) Net cash flows used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 were approximately $6,712,000, calculated by adjusting our net loss from operations by approximately $874,000 in the aggregate. Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was approximately $9,086,000, similarly adjusted by approximately $1,084,000. The decrease in net cash flows used in operating activities was mainly due to the reduction in operating expenses from implementation of the Plan and the closure of our SCS research and development program. Net cash flows used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 were approximately $984,000, resulting mainly from purchase of property and equipment, proceeds from sales of a marketable securities and proceeds from maturities of marketable securities off set by purchases of marketable securities compared to net cash flows used in investing activities in the prior comparable period as a result of purchase of property and equipment in the amount of $83,000. Net cash flows from financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 were approximately $6,558,000, resulting from net proceeds received due to the issuance of common stock, and other securities in a series of offerings in May and June 2023.