Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes included in Item 1, Financial Statements, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 and in Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2023. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a pre-clinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. 14 Core-Business Focus Program On May 15, 2023, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized, and the Company commenced, a core-business focus program while the Company seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. This core-business focus program includes the cessation of research and development activities not related to LIBERTY, including terminating the Companys agreement with CardioSert for that technology, and returning intellectual property relating to the SCS (ViRob) and TipCat to Technion Research and Development Foundation. Cost Reduction Plan In addition to the core-business focus program described above, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized, and the Company commenced, a cost reduction plan while the Company seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. This cost reduction plan includes: Limiting the Companys research & development and regulatory efforts to complete the LIBERTYs verification and validation process (V&V), complete robotics build-up and execute first in human cases outside the USA. Postponing a Good Laboratory Practice study for LIBERTY until the completion of the V&V, which was subsequently rescheduled for August 2023 after additional capital has been raised. Harel Gadot, Chairman, President and CEO of the Company, has agreed to a reduction of 50% of his base salary, with terms and conditions with respect to the reduction period to be determined. All other executive officers have agreed to a reduction of 30-40% of base salary as follows: Rachel Vaknin, CFO. Pursuant to an Addendum to Employment Agreement, Ms. Vaknins gross monthly salary was decreased to a gross amount of NIS 35,000. Simon Sharon, CTO and General Manager. Pursuant to an Addendum to Employment Agreement, Mr. Sharons gross monthly salary was decreased to a gross amount of NIS 44,496. Eyal Morag, CMO. Pursuant to an Addendum to Employment Agreement, Dr. Morags gross monthly salary was decreased to a gross amount of NIS 49,440. The independent members of the Board of Directors have agreed to a suspension of their quarterly director fees, with reinstatement of such fees to be determined. Freeze on new hires. Reduce employee headcount in both the US and Israel offices which are not directly involved in the research & development and/or regulatory process of LIBERTY, while retaining research & development and clinical-related employees to support the completion of the V&V and production of LIBERTY systems. Professor Moshe Shoham, a co-founder of the Company and currently a member of its Scientific Advisory Board, will waive his SAB fees, with fees payable to the remaining SAB members to be restructured. Postpone CE activities for the LIBERTY device. In May and June 2023, we raised sufficient capital that, together with the ongoing savings from the cost reduction plan described above, has enabled us to continue our operations through approximately April of 2024, including completion of the V&V study, commencing first-in-human cases planned in Brazil or elsewhere, perform the GLP study and submit the IDE to the US Food & Drug Administration. We continue to seek new sources of capital to stabilize our finances and provide operating runway subsequent to April of 2024. In the event the Company is not successful in raising additional capital by April of 2024, or if the results of the V&V study and first-in-human trials are not promising, the Company may be forced to take more drastic actions to conserve capital or shut down operations entirely. 15 Completion of Pre-Clinical Study On June 29, 2023, we announced the successful completion of a two-day pre-clinical study held by leading key opinion leaders at a New York-based research lab, where they performed dozens of catheterizations, including the utilization of the LIBERTY Robotic Surgical Systems remote operation capabilities, to pre-determined vascular targets, with a 100% success rate of reaching the intended target with no observable on-site complications. First-In-Human Clinical Cases We recently announced that we have initiated preparations for potential First-In-Human cases in Brazil, by engaging with interventional radiologist Prof. Francisco Cesar Carnevale. The engagement with Prof. Carnevale, from University of Sao Paulo Medical School Hospital, is expected to support our intention to conduct a first-in-human clinical trial in Brazil as part of our ongoing clinical and regulatory efforts. The potential clinical cases are expected to commence upon completion of the V&V process of our LIBERTY Robotic system, as well as obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals to perform those cases. We are also exploring options to conduct First-In-Human trials or cases in other places where the regulatory laws allow. Catheterization Milestone On May 3, 2023, we announced that the LIBERTY Robotic system has surpassed its 100th catheterization during multiple pre-clinical studies, with a 95% success rate of reaching pre-determined vascular targets, such as distal branches of hepatic, gastric, splenic, mesenteric, renal and hypogastric arteries. Moreover, all of the procedures were completed without notable signs of intraoperative injury. Technological Platforms LIBERTY On January 13, 2020, Microbot unveiled what it believes is the worlds first fully disposable robotic system for use in endovascular interventional procedures, such as cardiovascular, peripheral and neurovascular. The LIBERTY robotic system features a unique compact design with the capability to be operated remotely, reduce radiation exposure and physical strain to the physician, reduce the risk of cross contamination, as well as the potential to eliminate the use of multiple consumables when used with its NovaCross platform or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies. LIBERTY is designed to maneuver guidewires and over-the-wire devices (such as microcatheters) within the bodys vasculature. It eliminates the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated Cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. We believe LIBERTYs addressable markets are the Interventional Cardiology, Interventional Radiology and Interventional Neuroradiology markets. The unique characteristics of LIBERTY compact, mobile, disposable and remotely controlled - open the opportunity of expanding telerobotic interventions to patients with limited access to life-saving procedures, such as mechanical thrombectomy in ischemic stroke. LIBERTY is being designed to have the following attributes: Compact size - Eliminates the need for large capital equipment in dedicated cath-lab rooms with dedicated staff. Fully disposable - To our knowledge, the first and only fully disposable, robotic system for endovascular procedures. 16 One & DoneTM Can be made compatible with Microbots NitiLoops NovaCross products or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies, that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. State of the art maneuverability - Provides linear, rotational and tip control of its guidewire, as well as linear motion for an additional over the wire device. Compatibility with a wide range of commercially-available guidewires, microcatheters and guide-catheters. Enhanced operator safety and comfort Aims to reduce exposure to ionizing radiation and the need for heavy lead vests otherwise to be worn during procedures, as well as reducing the exposure to Hospital Acquired Infections (HAI). Ease of use - LIBERTYs intuitive remote controls aims to simplify advanced procedures while shortening the physicians learning curve. Telemedicine compatible - Capable of supporting tele-catheterization, carried out remotely by highly trained specialists. On August 17, 2020, Microbot announced the successful conclusion of its feasibility animal study using the LIBERTY robotic system. The study met all of its end points with no intraoperative adverse events, which supports Microbots objectives to allow physicians to conduct a catheter-based procedure from outside the catheterization laboratory (cath-lab), avoiding radiation exposure, physical strain and the risk of cross contamination. The study was performed by two leading physicians in the neuro vascular and peripheral vascular intervention spaces, and the results demonstrated robust navigation capabilities, intuitive usability and accurate deployment of embolic agents, most of which was conducted remotely from the cath-labs control room. On December 22, 2021, we entered into a strategic collaboration agreement for technology co-development with Stryker Corporation, acting through its Neurovascular Division. Pursuant to the agreement, the collaborative development program between Stryker and us aims to integrate certain of Strykers instruments with our LIBERTY Robotic System to address certain neurovascular procedures. The activities contemplated by the Agreement shall be specified in one or more development plans derived from the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. We are still determining scheduling to move the collaboration forward. In December 2021, we achieved design freeze of the LIBERTY device. In the first quarter of 2022, we filed our pre-submission package for the LIBERTY Robotic System with the FDA, addressing the regulatory pathway for the LIBERTY Robotic System. On July 22, 2022, the Company completed a pre-submission process with the FDA regarding the LIBERTY device. Formal feedback from the FDA included a recommendation to perform a clinical study and a human factors validation study, to support clearance through the 510(k) notification process. In September and October 2022, the Company conducted an animal study at an FDA accredited European-based MedTech research laboratory, which was performed by a team of seasoned Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) in the endovascular space, using porcine model. During the animal study, the physicians conducted 63 navigations to the targeted sites using the investigational LIBERTY Robotic System and performed an equal number of procedures manually. The LIBERTY Robotic System received positive feedback from participating physicians, and there were no observable immediate intraoperative adverse events, or harm, to the test subjects. The report from the animal study, which included histopathology data (the microscopic examination of tissue to study the manifestations of disease), exhibited equivocal results which were identified as related to unusual physiological animal responses in both manual and robotic test groups. The Company believes the results of the study allow it to move forward and focus on the next phases to ultimately include a U.S.-based pivotal pre-clinical study. The Company, together with its regulatory experts and consultants, believe a larger sample size and robust data generated by this study will advance the companys efforts towards the submission of Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 17 Technology from CardioSert On April 8, 2018, we acquired a patent-protected technology from CardioSert Ltd., a privately-held medical device company based in Israel that was part of a technological incubator supported by the Israel Innovation Authorities. The CardioSert technology contemplates a combination of a guidewire and microcatheter, technologies that are broadly used for surgery within a tubular organ or structure such as a blood vessel or duct. The CardioSert technology features a unique guidewire delivery system with steering and stiffness control capabilities which when developed is expected to give the physician the ability to control the tip curvature, to adjust tip load to varying degrees of stiffness in a gradually continuous manner. The technology was originally developed to support interventional cardiologists in crossing chronic total occlusions (CTO) during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures and has the potential to be used in other spaces and applications, such as peripheral intervention, and neurosurgery. This acquired technology from CardioSert was rebranded by us and trademarked as One & DoneTM. Microbot had been exploring the integration of the One & DoneTM technology into the LIBERTY endovascular robotic system for a range of potential applications in the cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and neurovascular spaces. However, as a result of its recently enacted core-business focus program and its cost reduction plan , the Company has terminated its existing agreement with CardioSert Ltd. as of August 17, 2023 and ceased its research and development of an commercialization efforts for the technology, which could result in the technology being re-acquired by CardioSert Ltd. for nominal consideration. The Company is in discussions with CardioSert with respect to post-termination matters. NovaCrossTM On October 6, 2022, we purchased substantially all of the assets, including intellectual property, devices, components and product related materials of Nitiloop Ltd., an Israeli limited liability company. The assets include intellectual property and technology in the field of intraluminal revascularization devices with anchoring mechanism and integrated microcatheter, and the products or potential products incorporating the technology owned by Nitiloop and designated by Nitiloop as NovaCross, NovaCross Xtreme and NovaCross BTK and any enhancements, modifications and improvements. This technology is also expected to be incorporated in our One & DoneTM platform. ViRob The ViRob is an autonomous crawling micro-robot which can be controlled remotely or within the body. Its miniature dimensions are expected to allow it to navigate and crawl in different natural spaces within the human body, including blood vessels, the digestive tract and the respiratory system as well as artificial spaces such as shunts, catheters, ports, etc. Its unique structure is expected to give it the ability to move in tight spaces and curved passages as well as the ability to remain within the human body for prolonged time. The SCS product was developed using the ViRob technology. On October 11, 2022, we announced that we are planning to focus our strategic efforts on the growing endovascular space and advancing the LIBERTY Robotic System to achieve its regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as expanding the LIBERTY ecosystem, and made a strategic decision to suspend the continued research and development of the SCS project, effective at that date. The SCS generally performed as expected during testing, both internally and externally, and we believe it continues to have potential clinical value as evidenced by the pre-clinical data submitted to the FDA, which allowed us to successfully apply for the Early Feasibility Study program administered by the FDA. However, the conflicting commercialization pathways between LIBERTY and the SCS due to different hospital call points, and the anticipated lengthier regulatory process of the SCS, led us to believe that focusing our strategic efforts on the LIBERTY Robotic System will provide us with a greater opportunity for success and future growth. We had been exploring opportunities with the SCS assets with the focus on maximizing shareholders value, including seeking buyers for the assets, entering into joint ventures, licensing arrangements, spinning-off the assets into a new operating company or discontinue the project altogether. However, as a result of our recently enacted core-business focus program and our cost reduction plan , we have been in contact with TRDF, the licensor of the technology, and returned the licensed intellectual property for the SCS (ViRob) back to TRDF in accordance with the terms of its license agreement, as we have not been successful in any such possible other opportunities. 18 TipCAT The TipCAT is a disposable self-propelled locomotive device that is specially designed to advance in tubular anatomies. The TipCAT is a mechanism comprising a series of interconnected balloons at the devices tip that provides the TipCAT with its forward locomotion capability. The device can self-propel within natural tubular lumens such as the blood vessels, respiratory and the urinary and GI tracts. A single channel of air/fluid supply sequentially inflates and deflates a series of balloons creating an inchworm like forward motion. The TipCAT maintains a standard working channel for treatments. Unlike standard access devices such as guidewires, catheters for vascular access and endoscopes, the TipCAT does not need to be pushed into the patients lumen using external pressure; rather, it will gently advance itself through the organs anatomy. As a result, the TipCAT is designed to be able to reach every part of the lumen under examination regardless of the topography, be less operator dependent, and greatly reduce the likelihood of damage to lumen structure. The TipCAT thus offers functionality features equivalent to modern tubular access devices, along with advantages associated with its physiologically adapted self-propelling mechanism, flexibility, and design. We have been exploring the use of the TipCAT for minimally invasive neurosurgical and endovascular applications to complement our other technologies. However, as a result of our recently enacted core-business focus program and our cost reduction plan , we returned the licensed intellectual property for the TipCAT back to TRDF in June 2023, as we do not have the funds to continue to develop this technology. Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries and benefits, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting and legal services, and allocated overhead expenses. Microbot has cut its general and administrative expenses in May 2023 as a result of its core-business focus program and cost reduction program; however, Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses may increase in the future as it incurs expenses relating to its operating activities, maintains and expands its patent portfolio and maintain compliance with exchange listing and public company requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 19 While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with ASC Topic 450 Contingencies. Accordingly, Management will recognize a liability for a legal contingency when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters in each reporting period in order to determine if any adjustments are required. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Results of Operations Comparison of Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Change 2023 2022 Change Research and development expenses $ (1,365 ) $ (2,193 ) $ 828 $ (2,982 ) $ (3,899 ) $ 917 General and administrative expenses (959 ) (1,370 ) 411 (2,261 ) (2,840 ) 579 Financing income, net 37 50 (13 ) 103 37 66 Research and Development Expenses. Microbots research and development expenses were approximately $1,365,000 and $2,982,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to approximately $2,193,000 and $3,899,000 for the comparable periods in 2022, respectively. The decrease in research and development expenses for the periods presented was primarily due to the Companys cost reduction plan which commenced in the second quarter of 2023. The cost reduction plan includes decreases in payroll from the termination of employees, salary reductions of management, subcontractors, advisory board members, patents expenses, as well as no bonus accrual. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were approximately $959,000 and $2,261,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to approximately $1,370,000 and $2,840,000 for the comparable periods in 2022, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the periods presented was primarily due to lower D&O insurance premiums in 2023 and the Companys cost reduction plan which commenced in the second quarter of 2023. The cost reduction plan includes decreases in payroll from the termination of employees, salary reductions of management, no bonus accrual and related expenses, paused independent director payments, and lower share based compensation expenses. 20 Financing Income, net. Financing income net was approximately $37,000 and $103,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to financing income net of approximately $50,000 and $37,000 for the comparable period in 2022. The increase in financing income net for the six-month period presented was primarily due to interest income and unrealized gains from marketable securities offset by exchange rate expenses recorded due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the NIS. The decrease in financing income net for the three-month period presented was primarily due to decrease in exchange rate income offset by increase in income from marketable securities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for all periods presented. As of June 30, 2023, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $9,015,000, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. This compares to net working capital of approximately $6,745,000 as of December 31, 2022. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its primary product candidate and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through June 30, 2023, Microbot has raised cash proceeds of approximately $66,560,000 and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $73,901,000. Microbot returned $3,375,000 (before interest) to an investor as a result of an adverse outcome in a litigation that concluded in the first quarter of 2020 and is now subject to an additional lawsuit seeking the return of an additional $6,750,000 of such proceeds. This litigation is in its discovery stages and pending court-ordered mediation, and we cannot predict what the eventual outcome will be, though management is vigorously defending its position that no return of capital is warranted. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through June 30, 2023 in the total amount of approximately $1,500,000. In addition, on June 2, 2023, we announced that we received approval for a grant from the IIA in the amount of NIS 1.62 million, which based on an exchange rate on such date of NIS 1.00 = $0.26675, would be approximately $433,000, to further finance the development of our manufacturing process of the LIBERTY robotic surgical system. On July 18, 2023, Microbot Israel received NIS 567,000 of such amount. On January 4, 2018, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with CardioSert to acquire certain of its patent-protected technology. CardioSert received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants, which remains Microbot Israels responsibility for so long as it owns the CardioSert assets. On October 6, 2022, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with Nitiloop Ltd. to acquire substantially all of its assets. Nitiloop received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $925,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grants. The grants are linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of USD LIBOR. Under the terms of the grants and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grants, if the applicable project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. To date, we have not generated revenues from our operations. As of June 30, 2023, we had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $9,920,000, excluding restricted cash, which management believes is sufficient to fund our operations for approximately eight months from the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or through approximately April of 2024, as a result of our recently enacted cost reduction plan. However, in the event we are unsuccessful in our current litigation discussed above, pursuant to which certain investors are seeking the return of $6,750,000 in proceeds we received from them in a 2017 stock offering, we will not have funds to continue our operation. As a result of the foregoing and our current cash position, these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern beyond approximately the next eight months, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, expand our business and develop our planned products. 21 During the second fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2023, Microbot commenced a core-business focus program and a cost reduction plan while it seeks to raise sufficient additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. In May and June 2023, Microbot raised aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $7.56 million, before fees and expenses of approximately $1.1 million, from investors, to continue to fund its operations and research and development activities, and will need additional funds to continue the FDA approval process for the Liberty device after the first quarter of 2024. To the extent available, Microbot intends to raise capital through future issuances of debt and/or equity securities including registered offerings under its existing Registration Statement on Form S-3, which it may draw down from time to time subject to limitations on our use of Registration Statements on Form S-3 as a result of our public float. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs, at the times it needs it or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. As a result of the foregoing, we are unable to fully implement our business plan without raising additional capital, if at all, and these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated interim financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on recoverability and reclassification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods presented (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Net cash flows used in operating activities $ (5,057 ) $ (6,131 ) Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities 1,588 (78 ) Net cash flows provided by financing activities 6,719 - Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 3,250 $ (6,209 ) Net cash flows used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 were approximately $5,057,000, calculated by adjusting our net loss from operations by approximately $83,000 in the aggregate. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2022 was approximately $6,131,000, similarly adjusted by approximately $571,000. The decrease in net cash flows used in operating activities was mainly due to the reduction in operating expenses from the May 2023 implementation of our cost reduction plan. Net cash flows from investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 were approximately $1,588,000, resulting from purchase of property and equipment, proceeds from sale of a marketable security and proceeds from maturities of marketable securities off set by purchase of marketable securities compared to net cash flows used in investing activities in the prior comparable period as a result of purchase of property and equipment in the amount of $78,000. Net cash flows from financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 were approximately $6,719,000, resulting from issuance of common stock, and other securities in a series of offerings in May and June 2023.