Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes included in Item 1, Financial Statements, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a preclinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Using our LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System, we are developing the first ever fully disposable robot for various endovascular interventional procedures. Technological Platforms LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System On January 13, 2020, Microbot unveiled what it believes is the worlds first fully disposable robotic system for use in endovascular interventional procedures, such as cardiovascular, peripheral and neurovascular. The LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System features a unique compact design with the capability to be operated remotely, reduce radiation exposure and physical strain to the physician, reduce the risk of cross contamination, as well as the potential to eliminate the use of multiple consumables when used with its NovaCross platform or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies. The LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System is designed to maneuver guidewires and over-the-wire devices (such as microcatheters) within the bodys vasculature. It eliminates the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated Cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. We believe the addressable markets for the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System are the Interventional Cardiology, Interventional Radiology and Interventional Neuroradiology markets. The unique characteristics of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System - compact, mobile, disposable and remotely controlled - open the opportunity of expanding telerobotic interventions to patients with limited access to life-saving procedures, such as mechanical thrombectomy in ischemic stroke. The LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System is being designed to have the following attributes: Compact size - Eliminates the need for large capital equipment in dedicated cath-lab rooms with dedicated staff. Fully disposable - To our knowledge, the first fully disposable, robotic system for endovascular procedures. One & Done - Can be made compatible with Microbots NitiLoops NovaCross products or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies, that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. State of the art maneuverability - Provides linear and rotational control of its guidewire, as well as linear and rotational control of a guide catheter, and the linear motion for an additional over the wire device. Compatibility with a wide range of commercially-available guidewires, microcatheters and guide-catheters. Enhanced operator safety and comfort - Aims to reduce exposure to ionizing radiation and the need for heavy lead vests otherwise to be worn during procedures, as well as reducing the exposure to Hospital Acquired Infections (HAI). Ease of use - Its intuitive remote controls aims to simplify advanced procedures while shortening the physicians learning curve. Telemedicine compatible - Capable of supporting tele-catheterization, carried out remotely by highly trained specialists. 12 On August 17, 2020, Microbot announced the successful conclusion of its feasibility animal study using the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. The study met all of its end points with no intraoperative adverse events, which supports Microbots objectives to allow physicians to conduct a catheter-based procedure from outside the catheterization laboratory (cath-lab), avoiding radiation exposure, physical strain and the risk of cross contamination. The study was performed by two leading physicians in the neuro vascular and peripheral vascular intervention spaces, and the results demonstrated robust navigation capabilities, intuitive usability and accurate deployment of embolic agents, most of which was conducted remotely from the cath-labs control room. On May 3, 2023, we announced that the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System has surpassed its 100th catheterization during multiple preclinical studies, with a 95% success rate of reaching pre-determined vascular targets, such as distal branches of hepatic, gastric, splenic, mesenteric, renal and hypogastric arteries. Moreover, all of the procedures were completed without notable signs of intraoperative injury. On June 29, 2023, we announced the successful completion of a two-day preclinical study held by leading key opinion leaders at a New York-based research lab, where they performed dozens of catheterizations, including the utilization of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical Systems remote operation capabilities, to pre-determined vascular targets, with a 100% success rate of reaching the intended target with no observable on-site complications. In October 2023, we announced the successful initial outcomes from our pivotal preclinical study with the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. The pivotal study was conducted by three leading interventional radiologists that utilized the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System to reach a total of 48 animal targets. A total of 6 LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical Systems were used in the study. All 6 LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical Systems performed flawlessly, with 100% usability and technical success. No acute adverse events or complications were visually observed intra-operative. In December 2023, we announced that the final histopathology and lab report supplements our previous findings, and that the results of the study will support our Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) submission to the FDA to commence human clinical study. On October 24, 2023, we announced that we received confirmation for the commencement of the process to support our future CE Mark approval, and to ultimately allow us to market the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System in Europe as well as other regions who accept the CE Mark. As a result, we recently were granted ISO 13485 certification for our quality management system, which is required to obtain CE mark approval for sales in the European Union. In addition, in view of the recent revision published by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regarding the QMSR (quality system management regulation) and its incorporation by reference of the ISO 13485 standard, we believe it will help streamline our transition into this revised FDA regulation. On January 29, 2024, the Company submitted an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application with the FDA, in order to commence its pivotal clinical trial in humans. On June 3, 2024, we announced that we received the FDAs approval to proceed with our pivotal human clinical trial as part of our IDE application for our LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. Since then, Brigham and Womens Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, Baptist Hospital of Miami, which includes Miami Cardiac & Vascular Institute and Miami Cancer Institute, and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, have each enrolled in the clinical trial as part of the IDE for the Companys LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. Since then, in October 2024, the Company has successfully completed enrollment and follow up for all patients in its human clinical trial. The Company also announced that is has successfully completed all biocompatibility tests, as required by its Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application and received full approval for the IDE study from the FDA. The Company currently anticipates filing its 510(k) submission with the FDA by of the end of 2024, and receiving 510(k) clearance from the FDA in the first half of 2025. Due to recent changes in the regulations that govern the production and distribution of medical devices in Europe (EU MDR), where the Company has already achieved the first step of obtaining the ISO 13485 certification, the Company now anticipates CE Mark approval in the second half of 2026. However, we can give no assurance that we will meet any of these projected milestones, if ever. The Company entered into an agreement with Emory University, which will allow the parties to evaluate and explore the potential for a future collaboration in connection with autonomous robotics in endovascular procedures. Under the terms of the agreement, Emory University will assume the responsibility of exploring the feasibility of integrating the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System with an imaging system to create an autonomous robotic system for endovascular procedures. NovaCross On October 6, 2022, we purchased substantially all of the assets, including intellectual property, devices, components and product related materials of Nitiloop Ltd., an Israeli limited liability company. The assets include intellectual property and technology in the field of intraluminal revascularization devices with anchoring mechanism and integrated microcatheter, and the products or potential products incorporating the technology owned by Nitiloop and designated by Nitiloop as NovaCross, NovaCross Xtreme and NovaCross BTK and any enhancements, modifications and improvements. This technology is also expected to be incorporated in our One & Done feature. War in Israel On October 7, 2023, the State of Israel, where the Companys research and development and other operations are primarily based, suffered a surprise attack by hostile forces from Gaza, which led to ongoing military operations and armed conflicts in the Gaza Strip. It continues to evolve and has since spread to northern Israel and threatens to spread to other Middle Eastern countries including Lebanon and Iran. These military operations and related activities are on-going as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company has considered various ongoing risks relating to the military operation and related matters, including: That some of the Companys Israeli subcontractors, vendors, suppliers and other companies in which the Company relies, are currently only partially active, as instructed by the relevant authorities; A slowdown in the number of international flights in and out of Israel; and Reduced workforce due to military service of some employees. 13 The Company is closely monitoring how the military operation and related activities could adversely affect its anticipated milestones and its Israel-based activities to support future clinical and regulatory milestones, including the Companys ability to import materials that are required to construct the Companys devices and to ship them outside of Israel. As of the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the Company has determined that there have not been any materially adverse effects on its business or operations, but it continues to monitor the situation, as any future escalation or change could result in a material adverse effect on the ability of the Companys Israeli office to support the Companys clinical and regulatory activities. The Company does not have any specific contingency plans in the event of any such escalation or change. Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses, net Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio, net of government grants. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses, net General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries and benefits, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting, legal services, and insurance expenses. Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses will increase over the long-term, even if a period-to-period comparison may show a decrease, as it expands its operating activities, maintains compliance with exchange listing and SEC requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 450 Contingencies. A provision is recorded when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters to determine if any adjustments are required. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 14 Results of Operations Comparison of Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2024 2023 Change 2024 2023 Change Research and development expenses, net $ 2,060 $ 1,612 $ 448 $ 4,646 $ 4,594 $ 52 General and administrative expenses, net 1,240 932 308 3,549 3,193 356 Financing income, net 85 98 (13 ) 144 201 (57 ) Research and Development Expenses, net. The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in clinical study expenses, regulation consultations and payroll expenses, offset by deduction of government grants and a decrease in animal study expenses. The increase in research and development expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to the increases in payroll expenses due to the cease of cost reduction plan which was implemented in 2023, an increase in clinical study expenses and increase in regulation expenses, offset by a decrease in stock based compensation expenses, a decrease in animal study expenses and a decrease due to deduction of government grants. General and Administrative Expenses, net. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in payroll expenses due to the cease of cost reduction plan which was implemented in 2023, offset by a decrease in legal expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the nine-month period ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in payroll expenses due to the cease of cost reduction plan which was implemented in 2023 as well as increase in stock based compensation expenses, offset by a decrease in travel expenses and legal expenses. Financing Income, net. The decrease in financing income, net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, was primarily due to expenses incurred from changes in exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in interest income. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, Microbot has not generated revenues from operations. Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for all periods presented. As of September 30, 2024, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $3.6 million, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. This compares to net working capital of approximately $4.1 million as of December 31, 2023. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its primary product candidate and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through September 30, 2024, Microbot has raised cash proceeds of approximately $72.8 million and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $87.5 million. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through September 30, 2024 in the total amount of approximately $1.9 million. This amount includes amounts received of approximately $378,000, which are a portion of an additional grant from the IIA in the amount of approximately NIS 1.6 million (approximately $447,000) approved by the IIA on June 1, 2023, to further finance the development of the manufacturing process of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. On January 4, 2018, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with CardioSert to acquire certain of its patent-protected technology as well as to assume CardioSerts grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000. During the 3rd quarter of 2024, Microbot Israel transferred such technology back to CardioSert, for nominal consideration and, as a result, Microbot Israels liability to repay CardioSerts IIA grants in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000 was also transferred back to CardioSert. On October 6, 2022, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with Nitiloop Ltd. to acquire substantially all of its assets. Nitiloop received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $925,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grants. The grants are linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of SOFR, a benchmark interest rate which replaced LIBOR. Under the terms of the grants and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grants, if the applicable project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated; accordingly, as we have discontinued the CardioSert program and are returning the technology to CardioSert, we do not expect to repay, or have the obligation to repay, the grants relating to that technology. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. 15 On March 2, 2023, the Company announced that it received approval for a grant from the Ministry of Economy in the amount of approximately NIS 300,000, which based on an exchange rate on such date of NIS 1.00 = $0.2923, would be approximately $88,000, to further finance the marketing activities of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System in the U.S. market. In relation to the Ministry of Economy grant, the Company is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3% of future sales of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System up to the grant amount plus interest. During the second fiscal quarter of 2023, Microbot commenced a core-business focus program and a cost reduction plan while it sought to raise sufficient additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. In May and June 2023, Microbot raised aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $7.6 million, before fees and expenses of approximately $1.1 million, from investors, to continue to fund its operations and research and development activities and will need additional funds to continue the FDA approval process for the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. We also raised approximately $5.05 million in gross proceeds, before fees and expenses of approximately $661,000, from financing activities through September 30, 2024, and raised an aggregate of approximately $734,000 in gross proceeds, before fees and expenses of approximately $49,000, through our recently reinstated At-the-Market Agreement with HC Wainwright (the ATM Agreement) since July 1, 2024. To the extent available, Microbot intends to raise capital through future public and private issuances of debt and/or equity securities, including continuing to raise capital, if available, pursuant to the ATM Agreement until the maximum of $4,819,905 is raised. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs, at the times it needs it or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. Management believes we have sufficient funds for our operations for less than one year. As a result of the foregoing and our current cash position, these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, expand our business and develop our planned products. The accompanying consolidated interim condensed financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on recoverability and reclassification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the nine-month periods presented (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 Net cash flows used in operating activities $ (7,136 ) $ (6,712 ) Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities 42 (984 ) Net cash flows provided by financing activities 5,104 6,558 Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (1,990 ) $ (1,138 ) The increase in net cash flows used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily due to ceasing our cost reduction plan which was implemented in 2023, which led to an increase in the net loss in the nine months ended September 30, 2024 as costs again increased. The increase in net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to 2023 was mainly due to the timing of purchases, sales and maturities of our marketable securities portfolio. The decrease in net cash flows provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to 2023 was due to a decrease in net proceeds received from fundraising activities from 2023 to 2024. 16