Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Star Peak Energy Transition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Forward-looking statements relate to the future and are subject to many risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including those risks set forth in this report and as described in Part I, Item IA Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our prior fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in Delaware on October 29, 2018 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). While we may pursue an acquisition opportunity in any business, industry, sector or geographical location, we intend to focus its efforts primarily on identifying businesses seeking to be a market leader in, and/or benefit from the increasing global initiatives to improve the efficiency of our energy ecosystems and reduce emissions (the Energy Transition). Our sponsor is Star Peak Sponsor LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (our Sponsor). Our registration statement for our Initial Public Offering (the Initial Public Offering) became effective on August 17, 2020. On August 20, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 35,000,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A common stock included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares) at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $350.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $20.0 million, inclusive of approximately $12.3 million in deferred underwriting commissions. On August 26, 2020, we consummated the sale of an additional 3,358,504 Units at the Initial Public Offering price at $10.00 per Unit pursuant to the notice of partial exercise from the underwriters, generating additional gross proceeds of approximately $33.6 million, and incurring additional offering costs of approximately $1.9 million, inclusive of an additional approximately $1.2 million in deferred underwriting commissions. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 6,733,333 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant to our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $10.1 million. In connection with the consummation of the sale of additional Units pursuant to the underwriters over-allotment option, on August 26, 2020, we sold 447,801 Private Placement Warrants to our Sponsor, generating additional gross proceeds of approximately $0.7 million. 18 Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement on August 20, 2020, $350.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement were placed in a trust account (Trust Account), located in the United States at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and invested only in U.S. government securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act having a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the assets held in the Trust Account as described below. Upon closing of the sale of Units and Private Placement Warrants upon exercise of the over-allotment, on August 26, 2020, $34.3 million of the net proceeds of the sale of the Units and Private Placement Warrants were placed in the Trust Account. Consummated Business Combination On April 28, 2021, we and STPK Merger Sub Corp., a newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary of us, and Stem, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Stem), consummated the previously-announced merger pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 3, 2020. See the Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on May 4, 2021 for additional information. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception through March 31, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective initial Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We will generate non-operating income in the form of gain on investment (net), dividends and interest held in Trust Account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $156.3 million, which consisted of approximately $519,000 in general and administrative expenses, approximately $30,000 in general and administrative expenses for costs incurred with our Sponsor, an approximately $155.8 million loss from change in fair value of warrant liabilities and approximately $49,000 of franchise tax expense, which was partially offset by approximately $35,000 gain on investment (net), dividends and interest held in Trust Account. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we had a net loss of approximately $1,000. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Going Concern As of March 31, 2021, we had approximately $426,000 in its operating bank account and working capital deficit of approximately $1.7 million. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied through a capital contribution of $25,000 from the Sponsor to purchase the Founder Shares, the loan of up to $300,000 under the Note, and the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We fully repaid the Note on August 20, 2020. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our officers, directors and initial stockholders may, but are not obligated to, provide us Working Capital Loans (see Note 4). To-date, there have been no borrowings under any Working Capital Loans. 19 In connection with our assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosures of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that the lack of liquidity raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the balance sheet. The unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay Administrative Services Agreement fees to our Sponsor that total $10,000 per month for office space, secretarial and administrative services provided to members of our management team. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instrument and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including Class A common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our outstanding Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 8,640,832 and 24,275,528 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the unaudited consolidated condensed balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Share of Common Stock Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the periods. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement to purchase up to an aggregate of 19,967,302 shares of our Class A common stock in the calculation of the diluted income per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted earnings per share is the same as basic earnings per share for the periods. 20 The unaudited consolidated condensed statements of operations include a presentation of income (loss) per share for common stock subject to redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income per share, basic and diluted for Class A common stock is calculated by dividing the gain on investment (net), dividends and interest held in Trust Account of approximately $35,000, net of applicable taxes available to be withdrawn from the Trust Account of approximately $35,000, by the weighted average number of Class A common stock outstanding for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Net loss per share, basic and diluted for Class B common stock is calculated by dividing the net loss of approximately $156.3 million and $0 for the three months March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, less income attributable to Class A common stock of $0 for each period, by the weighted average number of Class B common stock outstanding for the periods. Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815-15. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. We issued 19,967,302 common stock warrants issued in connection with our Initial Public Offering (12,786,168) and Private Placement (7,181,134) which are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815-40. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statements of operations. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants have been estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model each measurement date. The fair value of the warrants issued in connection with the Public Offering were initially measured at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model and subsequently measured based on the listed market price of such warrants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent Issued Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Inflation We do not believe that inflation had a material impact on our business, revenues or operating results during the period presented. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 21 Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.