Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes included in Item 1, Financial Statements, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a pre-clinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its micro-robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Microbots current technological platforms, ViRob TM , TipCAT TM , LIBERTY and CardioSert, are comprised of proprietary innovative technologies. Using the ViRob platform, Microbot is developing the Self Cleaning Shunt for the treatment of hydrocephalus and Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus, or NPH. Utilizing the LIBERTY and CardioSert platforms, Microbot is developing the first ever fully disposable robot for various endovascular interventional procedures. In addition, the Company is focused on the development of a Multi Generation Pipeline Portfolio utilizing all of its proprietary technologies. Technological Platforms LIBERTY On January 13, 2020, Microbot unveiled what it believes is the worlds first fully disposable robotic system for use in endovascular interventional procedures, such as cardiovascular, peripheral and neurovascular. The LIBERTY robotic system features a unique compact design with the capability to be operated remotely, reduce radiation exposure and physical strain to the physician, reduce the risk of cross contamination, as well as the potential to eliminate the use of multiple consumables when used with its One & Done capabilities, which would be based in part on the CardioSert platform or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies. 14 LIBERTY is designed to maneuver guidewires and over-the-wire devices (such as microcatheters) within the bodys vasculature. It eliminates the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. In addition, when combined with CardioSert technology or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies, it may be designed to streamline cath-lab procedures with our proprietary One & Done tool that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. With control over tip curvature and stiffness for maneuverability and access and without the need for constant tool exchanges when integrated into the LIBERTY device, the device may drastically reduce procedure time and costs while enhancing the operator experience. On August 17, 2020, Microbot announced the successful conclusion of its feasibility animal study using the LIBERTY robotic system. The study met all of its end points with no intraoperative adverse events, which supports Microbots objectives to allow physicians to conduct a catheter-based procedure from outside the catheterization laboratory (cath-lab), avoiding radiation exposure, physical strain and the risk of cross contamination. The study was performed by two leading physicians in the neuro vascular and peripheral vascular intervention spaces, and the results demonstrated robust navigation capabilities, intuitive usability and accurate deployment of embolic agents, most of which was conducted remotely from the cath-labs control room. In December 2021, we achieved design freeze of the LIBERTY device. On December 22, 2021, we entered into a strategic collaboration agreement for technology co-development with Stryker Corporation, acting through its Neurovascular Division. Pursuant to the agreement, the collaborative development program between Stryker and us aims to integrate certain of Strykers instruments with our LIBERTY Robotic System to address certain neurovascular procedures. The activities contemplated by the Agreement shall be specified in one or more development plans derived from the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. On March 31, 2022, the Company filed its pre-submission package for the LIBERTY Robotic System with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), addressing the regulatory pathway for the LIBERTY Robotic System. The Company expects to meet with the FDA following a normal review process to discuss the pre-submission and ensure the testing protocols and regulatory pathway are aligned with the FDA to obtain clearance for LIBERTY. On July 22, 2022, the Company completed a pre-submission process with the FDA regarding the LIBERTY device. Formal feedback from the FDA included a recommendation to perform a clinical study and a human factors validation study, to support clearance through the 510(k) notification process. We are continuously exploring and evaluating additional innovative guidewire/microcatheter technologies to be integrated and combined with the LIBERTY robotic platform. We are continuing our feasibility animal trials with respect to the LIBERTY device. ViRob The ViRob is an autonomous crawling micro-robot which can be controlled remotely or within the body. Its miniature dimensions are expected to allow it to navigate and crawl in different natural spaces within the human body, including blood vessels, the digestive tract and the respiratory system as well as artificial spaces such as shunts, catheters, ports, etc. Its unique structure is expected to give it the ability to move in tight spaces and curved passages as well as the ability to remain within the human body for prolonged time. The SCS product was developed using the ViRob technology. In December 2021, we achieved electrical and mechanical design freeze for the implant of the SCS. In preparation for the IDE submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for our planned Early Feasibility Study, we have determined that we need further clinical input, and we are seeking collaboration with key opinion leaders in the U.S. to serve as primary investigators to conduct the EFS study. In parallel, we are continuing development of the SCS to the extent feasible without such clinical input, and we are continuing to evaluate the SCS project based on clinical feedback received. Pursuant to an amendment to the License Agreement between Microbot and Technion Research and Development Foundation, both parties agreed to extend the next development milestone for the SCS project, which includes the First In Human milestone, until December 2024. 15 TipCAT The TipCAT is a disposable self-propelled locomotive device that is specially designed to advance in tubular anatomies. The TipCAT is a mechanism comprising a series of interconnected balloons at the devices tip that provides the TipCAT with its forward locomotion capability. The device can self-propel within natural tubular lumens such as the blood vessels, respiratory and the urinary and GI tracts. A single channel of air/fluid supply sequentially inflates and deflates a series of balloons creating an inchworm like forward motion. The TipCAT maintains a standard working channel for treatments. Unlike standard access devices such as guidewires, catheters for vascular access and endoscopes, the TipCAT does not need to be pushed into the patients lumen using external pressure; rather, it will gently advance itself through the organs anatomy. As a result, the TipCAT is designed to be able to reach every part of the lumen under examination regardless of the topography, be less operator dependent, and greatly reduce the likelihood of damage to lumen structure. The TipCAT thus offers functionality features equivalent to modern tubular access devices, along with advantages associated with its physiologically adapted self-propelling mechanism, flexibility, and design. Currently, Microbot is not pursuing the development of the TipCAT as a colonoscopy tool due to its focus on the neurosurgical and endovascular intervention spaces, and as such it is currently exploring the use of the TipCAT for applications to complement its other technologies. Pursuant to an amendment to the License Agreement between Microbot and the Technion, both parties agreed to continue to maintain the TipCat assets, which are still in a discovery phase, until December 2023. One & Done TM (CardioSert) Technology On April 8, 2018, Microbot acquired a patent-protected technology from CardioSert Ltd., a privately-held medical device company based in Israel that was part of a technological incubator supported by the Israel Innovation Authorities. The CardioSert technology contemplates a combination of a guidewire and microcatheter, technologies that are broadly used for surgery within a tubular organ or structure such as a blood vessel or duct. The CardioSert technology features a unique guidewire delivery system with steering and stiffness control capabilities which when developed is expected to give the physician the ability to control the tip curvature, to adjust tip load to varying degrees of stiffness in a gradually continuous manner. The CardioSert technology was originally developed to support interventional cardiologists in crossing chronic total occlusions (CTO) during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures and has the potential to be used in other spaces and applications, such as peripheral intervention, and neurosurgery. Our CardioSert tool is now trademarked as One & Done TM . Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries and benefits, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting and legal services, and allocated overhead expenses. Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses may increase in the future as it expands its operating activities, maintains and expands its patent portfolio and maintains compliance with exchange listing and SEC requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. 16 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with ASC Topic 450 Contingencies . A provision is recorded when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters to determine if any adjustments are required. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Results of Operations Comparison of Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2022 2021 Change 2022 2021 Change Research and development expenses $ (2,193 ) $ (1,389 ) $ (804 ) $ (3,899 ) $ (2,508 ) $ (1,391 ) General and administrative expenses (1,370 ) (1,087 ) (283 ) (2,840 ) (2,360 ) (480 ) Financing income (expenses), net 50 (35 ) 85 37 (31 ) 68 Research and Development Expenses . Microbots research and development expenses were approximately $2,193,000 and $3,899,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, compared to approximately $1,389,000 and $2,508,000 for the comparable periods in 2021. The increase in research and development expenses for the periods presented was primarily due to increases in payroll due to new hires and salary increases, as well as increases relating to the initial preparations to transfer the LIBERTY device from R&D to production. Microbot expects its research and development expenses to continue to increase over time as Microbot advances its development programs and begins pre-clinical and clinical trials for its LIBERTY device and possibly other product candidates. 17 General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses were approximately $1,370,000 and $2,840,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, compared to approximately $1,087,000 and $2,360,000 for the comparable periods in 2021. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the periods presented was primarily due to increases in payroll due to new hires and salary increases, increases in share-based compensation expense, D&O insurance premiums and travel expenses, which have resumed as Covid-related lockdowns have been lifted. These increases were partially offset by decreases in legal and consultant fees expenses. Microbot believes its general and administrative expenses may increase over time as it advances its programs, increases its headcount and operating activities and incurs increasing expenses associated with being a public company. Financing Income (Expenses), net . Financing income was approximately $50,000 and $37,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, compared to financing expense of approximately $35,000 and $31,000 for the comparable periods in 2021. The increase in financial income for the periods presented was primarily due to an increase in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and NIS offset by financial expenses related to leasing liabilities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for all periods presented. As of June 30, 2022, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $7,925,000, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. This compares to net working capital of approximately $13,895,000 as of December 31, 2021. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its primary product candidates, hires additional staff, including clinical, scientific, operational, financial and management personnel, and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through June 30, 2022, Microbot has raised net cash proceeds of approximately $54,770,000 and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $62,295,000. Microbot returned $3,375,000 (before interest) of such proceeds as a result of an adverse outcome in a litigation that concluded in the first quarter of 2020 and is now subject to an additional lawsuit seeking the return of an additional $6,750,000 of such proceeds. This litigation is in the discovery stage and we cannot project what the eventual outcome will be, though management is vigorously defending its position that no return of capital is warranted. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through June 30, 2022 in the total amount of approximately $1,500,000. On January 4, 2018, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with CardioSert to acquire certain of its patent-protected technology. CardioSert received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-3.5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grants. The grants are linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of USD LIBOR. Under the terms of the grants and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grants, if the applicable project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. We believe that our net cash will be sufficient to fund operations necessary to continue development activities of LIBERTY and (to the extent we are successful in obtaining clinical input) the SCS, for approximately seven months, based on current projected burn rate and milestones. However, in the event we are unsuccessful in our current litigation with Empery and Hudson Bay, pursuant to which they are seeking the return of $6,750,000 in proceeds we received from them in a 2017 stock offering, we would have net cash for approximately 1 month. Outcomes with respect to the regulatory process for our proposed products may further require adjustments to our projections or require the reallocation of funds from one or more existing projects to other projects. For instance, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining clinical input to continue the SCS research and development program, we may decide to reallocate funds budgeted for that program to the LIBERTY device program. 18 Microbot plans to continue to fund its research and development programs from time to time and other operating expenses, and the associated losses from operations, through its existing cash. Microbot intends to also raise capital through additional, future issuances of debt and/or equity securities, including through its existing $10 million registered At-The-Market offering and other registered offerings under its existing Registration Statement on Form S-3 for up to $75 million of securities, which it may draw down from time to time. These issuances may be opportunistic and even if the Company has enough funds at such time for operations. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Microbot is not able to secure adequate additional working capital when it becomes needed, it may be required to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned research and development programs. Any of these actions could materially harm Microbots business. As a result of the foregoing, we are unable to fully implement our business plan without raising additional capital, if at all, and these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated interim financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on recoverability and reclassification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Six months ended June 30, 2022 2021 Net cash flows from operating activities $ (6,131 ) $ (4,291 ) Net cash flows from investing activities (78 ) 259 Net cash flows from financing activities - - Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (6,209 ) $ (4,032 ) Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 Net cash flows from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2022 were approximately $6,131,000 calculated by reducing our net loss from operations by approximately $571,000 to eliminate non-cash and expense items not involving cash flows such as depreciation and share-based compensation expense, as well as other changes in current assets and liabilities resulting in non-cash adjustments in the consolidated statements of operations. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was approximately $4,291,000 similarly adjusted by approximately $608,000. Net cash flows used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2022 were approximately $78,000, relating to the purchase of property and equipment, compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities as a result of proceeds from selling an investment in a convertible loan in the amount of $270,000, partially offset by approximately $11,000 used for the purchase of property and equipment, for the six months ended June 30, 2021. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Microbot has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 19