ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Report), as well as other statements we make, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts. Such statements often contain words such as expect, may, can, believe, predict, plan, potential, projected, projections, forecast, estimate, intend, anticipate, ambition, goal, target, think, should, could, would, will, hope, see, likely, and other similar words. Forward-looking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain, such as statements about our financial and operating performance guidance, outlook, targets and other forecasts or expectations regarding, or dependent on, our business outlook and strategy; our expectations around our new software and services-centric strategy; our ability to secure sufficient and timely inventory from suppliers; our ability to meet contracted customer demand; our ability to manage manufacturing or delivery delays; our ability to manage our supply chains and distribution channels; our joint ventures, partnerships and other alliances; forecasts or expectations regarding energy transition and global climate change; reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; the integration and optimization of energy resources; our business strategies and those of our customers; our ability to retain or upgrade current customers, further penetrate existing markets or expand into new markets; the effects of natural disasters and other events beyond our control; the direct or indirect effects on our business of macroeconomic factors and geopolitical instability, such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Gaza Strip and nearby areas; the expected benefits of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 on our business; and our future results of operations, including revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and the other metrics presented herein. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to our inability to execute on, and achieve the expected benefits from, our operational and strategic initiatives, including from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts; our inability to successfully execute on our new software and services-centric strategy; uncertainty around the status of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 as a result of the change in U.S. Administration; our inability to secure sufficient and timely inventory from our suppliers, as well as contracted quantities of equipment; our inability to meet contracted customer demand; supply chain interruptions, manufacturing or delivery delays and increased supply chain costs, including as a result of trade policies; disruptions in sales, production, service or other business activities; general macroeconomic and business conditions in key regions of the world, including inflationary pressures, general economic slowdown or a recession, high interest rates, changes in monetary policy, changes in trade policies, including tariffs or other trade restrictions or the threat of such actions, and instability in financial institutions; the direct and indirect effects of widespread health emergencies on our workforce, operations, financial results and cash flows; geopolitical instability, such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Gaza Strip and nearby areas; the results of operations and financial condition of our customers and suppliers; pricing pressures; severe weather and seasonal factors; our inability to continue to grow and manage our growth effectively; our inability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; our inability to comply with, and the effect on our business of, evolving legal standards and regulations, including those concerning data protection, consumer privacy, sustainability, and evolving labor standards; our inability to regain and maintain compliance with New York Stock Exchange listing standards; risks relating to the development and performance of our energy storage systems and software-enabled services; our inability to retain or upgrade current customers, further penetrate existing markets or expand into new markets; the risk that our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by other political, economic, business and competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Report, in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, and in our other filings with the SEC. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of any such development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results or outcomes, or the timing of these results or outcomes, may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and other statements in this Report regarding our environmental, social, and other sustainability plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to the Company, investors or other stakeholders or required to be disclosed in our filings under U.S. securities laws or any other laws or requirements applicable to the Company. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental, social, and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Forward-looking statements in this Report are made as of the date of such Report, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. You should read the following managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of 22 this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis should also be read together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results or Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. You should carefully read the sections entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors herein to gain an understanding of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Overview Our mission is to help our customers plan, deploy, and operate clean energy assets via AI-enabled software and services. We offer a comprehensive suite of solutions that transform how solar and energy storage projects are developed, built, and operated, including (i) an integrated suite of software and edge products, and (ii) full-lifecycle energy services from a team of experts. We operate in two key areas within the renewable energy landscape: solar and storage. In solar, we serve project developers, asset owners and engineering, procurement and construction firms (EPCs) by selling them solar edge devices and monitoring and control software, as well as professional services related to the design and commissioning of the same. In storage, we serve project developers, asset owners, EPCs, and distributors by selling them software-enabled forecasting and optimization managed services that minimize spending on utility bills, or maximize revenue from energy market participation. In some cases, we also resell battery OEM hardware to our customers for a fee. Some customers own both solar and storage assets, and use our full software capabilities and services across both asset classes. Since our inception in 2009, we have engaged in developing and marketing AI-enabled software and services, raising capital, recruiting personnel, and growing our annual recurring revenue. As the energy landscape has changed in recent years, we have increasingly focused on larger, utility-scale projects, supporting asset owners, developers, utilities, operators, and traders. Over the last 15 years, we have grown into one of the most experienced clean energy software providers in the world, achieving milestones such as deploying software with multiple Fortune 500 companies, operating the largest virtual power plant in California, and becoming the de facto standard for commercial and industrial solar asset management software. We have incurred net operating losses and negative cash flows from operations each year since our inception. We have financed our operations primarily through cash flows from customers, proceeds from the Merger, and the issuance of convertible senior notes and convertible preferred stock. Our total revenue increased from $25.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to $32.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, we incurred net losses of $25.0 million and $72.3 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,651.5 million. On April 9, 2025, we announced a reduction of our global workforce of approximately 27%, as part of the Companys broader efforts to prioritize investments in software, reduce operating costs, increase efficiency, drive profitable growth and increase stockholder value, as more fully described above under Note 13 Subsequent Events, of the accompanying Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report. We expect to continue to exercise discipline and moderate expenses associated with sales and marketing, research and development, regulatory and related functions. In addition, we expect to continue to manage and reduce our general and administrative expenses associated with scaling our business operations and being a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Key Factors, Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Business We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors, some of which present significant opportunities for us, and some of which pose risks and challenges, including but not limited to: Our New Strategy In 2024, we announced a new business strategy that reflects a renewed focus on developing and marketing our AI-enabled software and services offerings. This transition entails significant operational changes, including reduction of what has historically been the source of most of our revenue (battery resales), adjustments to the way we develop and market our products and services, and realignment of our business processes. These changes are expected to result in reduced revenue, increased restructuring-related costs and short-term disruptions in our operations, which may negatively affect our ability to effectively scale our software and services offerings and achieve our financial and operational targets. Failure to successfully and timely implement our new strategy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of 23 operations. See We may not be able to successfully implement our recently announced new strategy. in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Cash Reserves In addition, the execution of our new business strategy is expected to require investment in our human capital and infrastructure. As of March 31, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $58.6 million (as compared to $56.3 million as of December 31, 2024), while our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $31.7 million. Our cash reserves may constrain our ability to make the investments required to execute our new strategy or may otherwise not be sufficient to fund operations. If our cash flow from operations does not improve as quickly as expected, or if we are unable to secure additional sources of capital if or when the need arises, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Customer Concentration We have historically depended on a small number of significant customers for our sales, and a small number of customers have historically accounted for a material portion of our revenue. Although we continue to diversify our customer base, we may continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers. Loss of a significant customer, the inability to close (or a delay in closing) a significant contract at any time, or a significant reduction in pricing or order volume from a significant customer, have (in the case of contractual delays) resulted in material reductions in revenue and other adverse effects in certain quarters, and may do so in the future. NYSE Notice On August 28, 2024, we received formal notice from the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) that we were not in compliance with Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual because the average closing price of our shares of common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days. We subsequently notified the NYSE of our intent to regain compliance with the requirements of Section 802.01C. We are able to regain compliance at any time within the six-month period following receipt of the notice if, on the last trading day of any calendar month during this cure period (or the last trading day of this cure period), we have a closing share price of at least $1.00 and an average closing share price of at least $1.00 over the prior 30 trading-day period. If we do not regain compliance with Section 802.01C within such cure period, the NYSE may commence delisting proceedings. The NYSE rules also provide for an exception to the six-month cure period if the action required to regain compliance with Section 802.01C requires stockholder approval, in which case, the action needs to be approved by stockholders by no later than our next annual meeting of stockholders and promptly implemented. We would be able to regain compliance if our share price promptly exceeds $1.00 per share after receiving stockholder approval, and the price remains above that level for at least the following 30 trading days. On February 13, 2025, we notified the NYSE that we intend to regain compliance with Section 802.01C through a reverse stock split, for which we will seek stockholder approval at our 2025 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on June 4, 2025. The notice does not affect our ongoing business operations or our SEC reporting requirements. For more information, see We may fail to qualify for continued listing on the NYSE, which could make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Inflation Reduction Act and Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the United States Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA), which includes several provisions intended to accelerate U.S. manufacturing and adoption of clean energy, battery and energy storage, electrical vehicles, and other solar products and is expected to impact our business and operations. As part of such incentives, the IRA, among other things, extends the investment tax credit and production tax credit at their full rates until at least 2034 and is therefore expected to increase the demand for solar and storage products. The IRA also incentivizes residential solar and storage customers and developers through the inclusion of a tax credit for qualifying energy projects of up to 30%. Section 45X of the IRA offers advanced manufacturing production tax credits (AMPTC) that incentivize the production of eligible components within the U.S. These provisions of the law are only several years old, and regulations and guidance concerning their implementation are gradually being published and refined by the U.S. Treasury Department. On October 24, 2024, final regulations concerning the application of IRC 45X were published. The regulations contain detailed rules concerning the eligibility, qualifying and accounting for AMPTCs. Of particular relevance to the Company are the rules concerning the qualification and measurement of AMPTCs to Residential Inverters, Commercial Inverters and DC-Optimized Inverter Systems, that are included in the definition of Microinverters. In January 2025, the new U.S. administration issued an executive order and a memorandum aimed at pausing the disbursement of grants and other government funds, including funds under the IRA and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 24 Act (IIJA), thereby creating uncertainty regarding the ability to secure government awards and grants. This potential loss of financial support could adversely affect our business and the overall financial performance of the Company. Furthermore, potential federal decisions to modify the IRA, IIJA or their associated regulations or guidance could adversely affect the availability of incentives. Parent Company Guarantees Prior to July 2023, we agreed in certain customer contracts, to PCG that the value of purchased hardware will not decline for a certain period of time, as more fully described above under Note 3 Revenue, of the accompanying Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report. We accounted for such contractual terms and guarantees as variable consideration at each measurement date. We updated our estimates of variable consideration each quarter with respect to outstanding guarantees, including changes in estimates related to such guarantees, for facts or circumstances that had changed from the time of the initial estimate. As a result, the Company recorded a net revenue reduction of $33.1 million in hardware revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The overall reduction in revenue was related to deliveries that occurred prior to 2024. There are no remaining PCGs outstanding, and the Company expects no future impact on its financial results as a result of PCGs. Because we have not included these parent company guarantees in our contracts since July 2023, and because we do not intend to provide guarantees in customer contracts going forward, we believe that excluding the effect of the $33.1 million net reduction in revenue from adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit enhances the comparability to these metrics in prior periods. Impairment and Accounts Receivable Write-Off For those contracts where the customers invoked PCG protection pursuant to the applicable contract, we worked actively to remarket the remaining systems subject to PCG with a wide variety of potential customers, as more fully described above under Note 3 Revenue, in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report. Given the uncertainty of collection from the original customers of due and unpaid amounts in those cases where we believe we have enforceable rights of recovery, we believed the likelihood for collection of the accounts receivable outstanding relating to hardware subject to these PCGs was no longer probable. Accordingly, we wrote-off the remaining receivables of $104.1 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. We are pursuing all potential remedies with respect to its enforceable rights under applicable contracts. Seasonality Our results of operations have typically fluctuated due to seasonal trends, which we expect to recur in future periods. Historically, we have recognized most of our revenue in the third and fourth fiscal quarters of each year due to various factors, including the requirement by our customers to reach target commercial operation dates for their renewable energy projects as well as tax equity and financing considerations. For instance, our revenue recognized in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 accounted for 59% of the total revenue recognized in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. The seasonality of our results of operations may be mitigated as our software and services offerings begin to comprise a greater percentage of our total revenue. Supply Chain Constraints and Risk We rely on a very small number of suppliers of energy storage systems and other equipment. If any of our suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with contracted quantities in a timely manner at prices, quality levels, and volumes acceptable to us, we would have very limited alternatives for supply, and we may not be able find suitable replacements for our customers, if at all. Such an event could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. DevCo Joint Ventures We, through an indirect wholly-owned development subsidiary, have entered into strategic joint ventures with qualified third parties to develop select energy storage generation projects (DevCo Projects), as more fully described above under Note 1 Business, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this report. These projects sometimes require significant upfront investment by us and can involve a high degree of risk. If a DevCo Project fails to reach completion or is significantly delayed, we could lose all or a portion of our development capital investment. See We Face Risks Related to our DevCo Business Model in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 for additional information about certain risks related to these DevCo Projects. 25 Decline in Lithium-Ion Battery Costs Our revenue growth is directly tied to the continued adoption of energy storage systems by our customers. The cost of lithium-ion energy storage hardware has generally declined over the last decade, but increased demand and global supply chain constraints or trade and tariff actions could cause price increases in the future. The market for energy storage is rapidly evolving, and while we believe costs will continue to decline over time, there is no guarantee. If costs do not continue to decline, or do not decline as quickly as we anticipate, this could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business. The United States Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) was signed into law in August 2022 and includes incentives and tax credits aimed at reducing the effects of climate change, such as a tax credit for stand-alone battery storage projects. The implementation of the IRA is expected to further reduce the cost of battery storage systems for certain customers; however, there are numerous restrictions and requirements associated with qualifying for the tax credits and other incentives available under the IRA, and we continue to assess Treasury Department and other guidance on how the IRA impacts our business. Additionally, a new Congress and presidential administration introduces uncertainty as to whether these financial and tax incentives will be modified, reduced or restricted in the future. Increase in Deployment of Renewables Deployment of intermittent resources has accelerated over the last decade, and today, wind and solar have become a low cost energy source. We expect the cost of generating renewable energy to continue to decline and deployments of energy storage systems to increase. As renewable energy sources of energy production are expected to represent a larger proportion of energy generation, grid instability rises due to their intermittency, which can be addressed by energy storage solutions. The IRA is expected to further increase the deployment of renewable energy assets, provided that the law or its implementation is not modified or restricted in a way that counters these effects. We are continuing to evaluate the IRA and its requirements, including Treasury Department guidance, and its application to our business and our customers. Competition Our key competitors include energy monitoring and optimization software providers, energy storage and edge device OEMs, hardware integration providers, renewable project developers, EPC firms, and consulting firms. In storage, our competitors are typically focused on the development and marketing of single-purpose built solutions with captive hardware offerings, while our AI-powered software is hardware agnostic, and benefits from operational data across a multitude of hardware types, geographies, utilities, and grid operator service areas. In solar, our competitors provide monolithic software and edge devices, whereas PowerTrack and our edge devices provide customers with a flexible solution that meets their individual project needs. We believe we are well-positioned to compete successfully in the market for software and software-enabled services. We are among the leaders in global distributed solar and energy storage assets under management, supported by proven technology, focused customer service, strong strategic partnerships and a seasoned leadership team with a track record of success. Existing competitors may expand their product offerings and sales strategies, and new competitors may enter the market. Furthermore, our competitors include other types of software providers and some hardware manufacturers that offer software solutions. If our market share declines due to increased competition, our revenue and ability to generate profits in the future may be adversely affected. Government Regulation and Compliance Although we are not regulated as a utility, the market for our products and services is heavily influenced by federal, state, and local government statutes and regulations concerning electricity. These statutes and regulations, like the IRA, affect electricity pricing, net metering, incentives, taxation, competition with utilities, and the interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and internationally, governments regularly modify these statutes and regulations and acting through state utility or public service commissions, regularly change and adopt different rates for commercial customers. These changes can positively or negatively affect our ability to deliver cost savings to customers. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit and margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures, for financial and operational decision making and as a means to evaluate our operating performance and prospects, develop internal budgets and financial goals, and to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain expenses and expenditures that may not be indicative of our operating performance, such as stock-based compensation and other non-cash charges, as well as discrete cash charges that are infrequent in nature. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and 26 analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate managements internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors because they both (1) allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision making and (2) are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit and margin should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit excluding amortization of capitalized software, impairments related to decommissioning of end-of-life systems, excess supplier costs and resulting liquidated damages, and reduction in revenue. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2024, we incurred costs of $1.0 million above initially agreed prices on the acquisition of certain hardware systems from one of our suppliers, which resulted from production delays by such supplier. Because we had not previously incurred costs above initially agreed prices with a hardware supplier, we excluded this item from adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit to better facilitate comparisons of our underlying operating performance across periods. The following table provides a reconciliation of GAAP gross profit (loss) and margin to non-GAAP gross profit and margin (in millions, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue $ 32.5 $ 25.5 Cost of revenue (22.0) (49.7) GAAP gross profit (loss) 10.5 (24.2) GAAP gross margin (%) 32 % (95) % Non-GAAP Gross Profit GAAP Revenue $ 32.5 $ 25.5 Add: Revenue reduction, net (1) 33.1 Subtotal 32.5 58.6 Less: Cost of revenue (22.0) (49.7) Add: Amortization of capitalized software & developed technology 4.3 3.9 Add: Excess supplier costs (2) 1.0 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 14.8 $ 13.8 Non-GAAP gross margin (%) 46 % 24 % (1) Refer to the discussion of reduction in revenue in Parent Company Guarantees above. (2) Refer to the discussion of excess supplier costs in Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin above. 27 Adjusted EBITDA As discussed above, we believe that adjusted EBITDA is useful for investors to use in comparing our financial performance with the performance of other companies. Nonetheless, the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude when calculating adjusted EBITDA. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss attributable to us before depreciation and amortization, including amortization of internally developed software, interest expense, further adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation and other income and expense items, including reduction in revenue, excess supplier costs and resulting liquidated damages, and income tax provision or benefit. The following table provides a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net loss $ (25,000) $ (72,307) Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization (1) 11,695 11,154 Interest expense 4,290 4,707 Stock-based compensation 4,317 8,374 Revenue reduction, net (2) 33,128 Excess supplier costs and resulting liquidated damages (3) 1,012 Provision for income taxes 58 153 Other expenses (4) 13 1,540 Adjusted EBITDA $ (4,627) $ (12,239) (1) Depreciation and amortization includes depreciation and amortization expense, impairment loss of energy storage systems, impairment loss of project assets, and impairment loss of right-of-use assets. (2) Refer to the discussion of reduction in revenue in Parent Company Guarantees above. (3) Refer to the discussion of excess supplier costs in Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin above. (4) Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2024 reflects other expenses of $1.5 million, comprised of $1.1 million for expenses related to restructuring costs to pursue greater efficiency and to realign our business and strategic priorities, and $0.4 million of other non-recurring expenses. 28 Financial Results and Key Metrics The following table presents our financial results and our key metrics (in millions, except for percentages and unless otherwise noted): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Key Financial Metrics Revenue $ 32.5 $ 25.5 GAAP gross profit (loss) $ 10.5 $ (24.2) GAAP gross margin (%) 32 % (95) % Non-GAAP gross profit $ 14.8 $ 13.8 Non-GAAP gross margin (%) 46 % 24 % Net loss $ (25.0) $ (72.3) Adjusted EBITDA $ (4.6) $ (12.2) Key Operating Metrics Bookings (1) $ 34.5 $ 23.8 Contracted backlog* (2) $ 25.3 $ 1,639.6 Storage operating AUM (in GWh)* (3) 1.6 0.8 Solar operating AUM (in GW)* (4) 32.4 26.9 CARR* (5) $ 69.0 $ 89.3 ARR* (6) $ 56.9 $ 45.1 * at period end (1)Redefined versus prior periods. Beginning with this Report, the Company is redefining Bookings as the total value of executed purchase orders. Previously this metric included all relevant executed contracts, regardless of whether or not a related purchase order had been executed. The definition of Bookings is discussed in more detail below under the heading Bookings. (2)Redefined versus prior periods. Beginning with this Report, the Company is redefining Contracted Backlog as the total value of hardware and non-recurring services bookings with executed purchase orders in dollars, as of a specific date. Previously, this metric included the total contract value of hardware, software and services contracts recognized ratably over the contract period, regardless of whether or not a related purchase order had been executed. (3)New metric, introduced in this Report. Represents total GWh of energy storage systems in operation. Contracted storage AUM from prior periods has been replaced with this metric. (4)Total GWof solarsystemsin operation. (5) Contracted Annual Recurring Revenue (CARR): Redefined versus prior periods. Beginning with this Report, the Company is redefining CARR as the annualized value from Stem customer subscription contracts with executed purchase orders signed in the period for systems that are not yet operating and all operating Stem customer subscription contracts, including solar software, storage software & recurring managed services, and some recurring professional services contracts. Previously, this metric included the annualized value from all executed Stem customer subscription contracts, regardless of whether or not a related purchase order had been executed. (6)Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR): New metric, introduced in this Report. Annualized value from operating customer subscription contracts, including solar software, storage software & recurring managed services, and some recurring professional services contracts. Bookings Due to the long-term nature of our contracts, bookings are a key metric that allows us to understand and evaluate the growth of our Company and our estimated future revenue related to customer contracts for our energy optimization services, sales of energy storage systems, asset monitoring software, edge devices, and project and professional service engagements. Bookings represent the total value of executed customer purchase orders. Customer purchase orders are typically executed three to six months ahead of hardware installation. The booking amount includes (1) hardware revenue, which is typically recognized at delivery of the energy storage system and/or edge device to the customer, and (2) services revenue, which represents the total nominal software and services contract value which will be recognized ratably over the contract period. 29 For host customer sales, bookings represent the expected consideration from energy optimization services contracts, including estimated incentive payments that are earned by the host customer from utility companies in relation to the services provided by us and assigned by the host customer to us. For host customer sales, there are no differences between bookings and remaining performance obligations at any point in time. For partnership sales, once a purchase order has been executed, the booking is considered to be a contract in accordance with ASC 606, and therefore, gives rise to a remaining performance obligation as we have an obligation to transfer hardware and energy optimization services in our partnership agreements. We also have the contractual right to receive consideration for our performance obligations. The accounting policy and timing of revenue recognition for host customer contracts and partnership arrangements that qualify as contracts with customers under FASB ASU 2014-09 Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), are described within Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate services and other revenue and hardware revenue. Services and other revenue is generated through (i) energy optimization software (ii) asset management software, and (iii) the sale of project assets and advisory services. Software fees charged to customers generally consist of recurring fixed monthly payments throughout the term of the contract and in some arrangements, an installation and/or upfront fee component. We may also receive incentives from utility companies in relation to the sale of our services. We generate hardware revenue through (i) sales of OEM energy storage systems and (ii) edge hardware devices. Performance obligations are satisfied when the energy storage system and edge hardware device along with all ancillary hardware components are delivered. The milestone payments received before the delivery of hardware are treated as deferred revenue. In certain customer contracts, we agreed to provide a guarantee that the value of purchased hardware will not decline for a certain period of time, as more fully described above under Note 3 Revenue, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report. Cost of Revenue Cost of services and other revenue includes depreciation of the cost of energy storage systems we own under long-term customer contracts, which includes capitalized fulfillment costs, such as installation services, permitting and other related costs. Cost of services and other revenue also includes the costs for the development and constructions of project assets. Cost of revenue may also include any impairment of inventory and energy storage systems, along with system maintenance costs associated with the ongoing services provided to customers. Costs of revenue are recognized as energy optimization and other supporting services are provided to our customers throughout the term of the contract. Cost of hardware revenue generally includes the cost of the hardware purchased from a manufacturer, shipping, delivery, and other costs required to fulfill our obligation to deliver the energy storage system to the customer location. Cost of hardware revenue may also include any impairment of energy storage systems held in our inventory for sale to our customer. Cost of hardware revenue related to the sale of energy storage systems is recognized when the delivery of the product is completed. Gross Profit (Loss) Our gross profit (loss) fluctuates significantly from quarter to quarter. Gross profit (loss), calculated as revenue less costs of revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by various factors, including fluctuations in the amount and mix of revenue and the amount and timing of investments to expand our customer base. Over the long term, we hope to increase both our gross profit in absolute dollars and gross margin as a percentage of revenue through enhanced operational efficiency and economies of scale. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists of payroll and other related personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, commissions, bonuses, employee benefits, and travel for our sales and marketing personnel. In addition, sales and marketing expense includes trade show costs, amortization of intangibles and other expenses. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in future periods to support the overall growth in our business. 30 Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of payroll and other related personnel costs for engineers and third parties engaged in the design and development of products, third-party software and technologies, including salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense, project material costs, services and depreciation. Our research and development expenses support our investments in optimization, accuracy and reliability of our platform and other technology improvements to support and drive efficiency in our operations. These expenses may vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, depending primarily upon when we choose to make more significant investments. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other related personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and expenses for executive management, legal, finance and other costs. In addition, general and administrative expense includes fees for professional services and occupancy costs. We expect to continue to manage and reduce our general and administrative expense associated with scaling our business operations and being a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Other Expense, Net Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our outstanding borrowings under our convertible senior notes, and financing obligations and accretion on our asset retirement obligations. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of income from equity investments and foreign exchange gains or losses. 31 Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change % Change 2025 2024 (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue Services and other revenue $ 17,721 $ 14,840 $ 2,881 19% Hardware revenue 14,791 10,629 4,162 39% Total revenue 32,512 25,469 7,043 28% Cost of revenue Cost of services and other revenue 11,413 9,984 1,429 14% Cost of hardware revenue 10,561 39,676 (29,115) (73)% Total cost of revenue 21,974 49,660 (27,686) (56)% Gross profit (loss) 10,538 (24,191) 34,729 (144)% Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 6,792 11,126 (4,334) (39)% Research and development 11,328 14,136 (2,808) (20)% General and administrative 13,566 18,560 (4,994) (27)% Total operating expenses 31,686 43,822 (12,136) (28)% Loss from operations (21,148) (68,013) 46,865 (69)% Other expense, net: Interest expense (4,290) (4,707) 417 (9)% Other income, net 496 566 (70) (12)% Total other expense, net (3,794) (4,141) 347 (8)% Loss before provision for income taxes (24,942) (72,154) 47,212 (65)% Provision for income taxes (58) (153) 95 (62)% Net loss $ (25,000) $ (72,307) $ 47,307 (65)% *Percentage is not meaningful Revenue Revenue increased by $7.0 million, or 28%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by a $4.2 million increase in hardware revenue primarily due to an increase in solar and storage hardware revenue from new and existing customers. Services and other revenue also increased by $2.9 million primarily due to an increase in solar subscription services revenue from existing and new customers. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $27.7 million, or 56%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in cost of hardware revenue of $29.1 million due to a change in the mix of hardware and service offerings. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in cost of services and other revenue of $1.4 million primarily due to providing services at higher costs. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense decreased by $4.3 million, or 39%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was driven by a decrease of $1.0 million in professional services, resulting from reductions in advisory services and office-related expenses as a result of marketing related subscription cancellations, and a decrease of $3.3 million in personnel related expenses due to a decrease in headcount. 32 Research and Development Research and development expense decreased by $2.8 million, or 20%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $2.9 million in personnel related expenses as a result of lower headcount, partially offset by an increase of $0.1 million in professional services and other expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $5.0 million, or 27%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease of $4.8 million in personnel related expenses driven by lower stock-based compensation expense, a decrease of $0.4 million in professional services and other expenses, and an increase of $0.2 million in office-related expenses. Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net decreased by $0.4 million, or 9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease of $0.5 million in interest on financing obligations, partially offset by the accretion of the discount on short-term investments of $0.1 million. Other Income, Net Other income, net decreased by $0.1 million, or 12%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to a$0.3 million decrease in interest income from short-term investments, partially offset by a $0.2 million increase due to the prior period reversal of a previously recognized accretion expense on assets. Provision for Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.1 million primarily as a result of foreign income tax expense. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded a $0.2 million provision for income taxes primarily as a result of state income tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of its business operations, including working capital needs, debt service, acquisitions, contractual obligations and other commitments. We assess liquidity in terms of our cash flows from operations and their sufficiency to fund our operating and investing activities. To meet our payment service obligations, we must have sufficient liquid assets and be able to move funds on a timely basis. Significant factors in the management of liquidity are funds generated from operations, levels of accounts receivable and accounts payable and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $58.6 million, which were held for working capital purposes and for investment growth opportunities. As of March 31, 2025, we had net accounts receivable of $34.7 million and our working capital (deficit), which we define as current assets less current liabilities, was a deficit of $9.6 million. We believe that our cash position is sufficient to meet our capital and liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. The attainment of profitable operations is dependent upon future events, including successfully implementing our new business strategy, hiring and retaining our key executives and personnel with the requisite experience to develop our software and AI-based solutions, obtaining adequate financing to complete our development activities, developing an adequate network of suppliers, and building our customer base. Failure to successfully implement our new business strategy, generate sufficient revenues from our software and services offerings, achieve planned gross margins and operating profitability, control operating costs, or secure additional funding may require us to modify, delay, or abandon some of our planned future expansion or development, or to otherwise enact operating cost reductions available to management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The execution of our new strategy will entail significant operational changes, including reduction of what has historically been the source of most of our revenue (battery resales), adjustments to the way we develop and market our products and services, and realignment of our business processes. These changes are expected to result in reduced revenue, increased costs and short-term disruptions in our operations, which is expected to negatively impact our financial condition in the near term. Further, our cash reserves may constrain our ability to make the investments required to execute our new strategy or may otherwise not be sufficient to fund operations. If our cash 33 flow from operations does not improve as quickly as expected, or if we are unable to secure additional sources of capital if or when the need arises, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the future, we may be required to obtain additional equity or debt financing in order to support our continued capital expenditures and operations, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in new technologies, this could reduce our ability to compete successfully and harm our business, growth and results of operations. Our long-term liquidity requirements are linked primarily to the expansion of our software and services offerings and the implementation of our new business strategy, as well as the continued extension of Athena PowerTrack and other software applications. While we have plans to potentially expand our geographical footprint beyond our current partnerships and enter into joint ventures, those are not required initiatives to achieve our plans. Financing Obligations We have entered into arrangements wherein we finance the cost of energy storage systems via special purpose entities (SPEs) we establish with outside investors. These SPEs are not consolidated into our financial statements, but are accounted for as equity method investments. The investors provide us upfront payments through the SPEs. Under these arrangements, the payment by the SPEs to us is accounted for as a borrowing by recording the proceeds received as a financing obligation. The financing obligation is repaid with the future customer payments and incentives received. A portion of the amounts paid to the SPE is allocated to interest expense using the effective interest rate method. Furthermore, we continue to account for the revenues from customer arrangements and incentives and all associated costs despite such systems being legally sold to the SPEs due to our significant continuing involvement in the operations of the energy storage systems. The total financing obligation as of March 31, 2025 was $54.6 million, of which $17.4 million was classified as a current liability. 2028 Green Convertible Senior Notes On November 22, 2021, we sold to Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Barclays Capital Inc, as initial purchasers (the 2021 Initial Purchasers), and the 2021 Initial Purchasers purchased from us, $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.50% Green Convertible Notes due 2028 (the 2028 Convertible Notes, pursuant to a purchase agreement dated as of November 17, 2021, by and between us and the 2021 Initial Purchasers. Our net proceeds from this offering were approximately $445.7 million, after deducting the 2021 Initial Purchasers discounts and commissions and the estimated offering expenses payable by us. The 2028 Convertible Notes will accrue interest payable semi-annually in arrears and will mature on December 1, 2028, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. Upon conversion, we may choose to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. The 2028 Convertible Notes are redeemable for cash at our option at any time given certain conditions. Refer to Note 7 Convertible Notes, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report for additional details regarding this transaction. On November 17, 2021, in connection with the pricing of the 2028 Convertible Notes, and on November 19, 2021, in connection with the exercise in full by the 2021 Initial Purchasers of their option to purchase additional 2028 Convertible Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain of the 2021 Initial Purchasers of the 2028 Convertible Notes to minimize the potential dilution to our common stockholders upon conversion of the 2028 Convertible Notes. We used approximately $66.7 million of the net proceeds from the 2028 Convertible Notes to pay the cost of the capped call transactions described above. We intend to allocate an amount equivalent to the net proceeds from this offering to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, our existing or new eligible green expenditures, including investments related to creating a more resilient clean energy system, optimized software capabilities for energy systems, and reducing waste through operations. On April 3, 2023, we used approximately $99.8 million of the net proceeds from the issuance of the 4.25% Green Convertible Senior Notes due 2030 (2030 Convertible Notes) to purchase and surrender for cancellation approximately $163.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2028 Convertible Notes. See Note 7 Convertible Notes, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report for additional details regarding this transaction. 2030 Convertible Notes On April 3, 2023, we issued $240.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2030 Convertible Notes in a private placement offering to qualified institutional buyers (the 2023 Initial Purchasers) pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2030 Convertible Notes are senior, unsecured obligations of the Company and bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per year, payable in cash semi-annually in arrears in April and October of each year, beginning in October 1, 2023. The 2030 Convertible Notes will mature on April 1, 2030, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. Upon conversion, we may choose to pay or deliver cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. The 2030 Convertible Notes are redeemable for cash at our option 34 at any time given certain conditions. See Note 7 Convertible Notes, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report, for additional details regarding this transaction. Our net proceeds from this offering were approximately $232.4 million, after deducting for $7.6 million of debt issuance costs primarily consisting of underwriters, advisory, legal, and accounting fees. We used approximately $99.8 million of the net proceeds to purchase and surrender for cancellation approximately $163.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2028 Convertible Notes. On March 29, 2023 and March 31, 2023, in connection with the pricing of the 2030 Convertible Notes, and on April 3, 2023, in connection with the exercise in full by the 2023 Initial Purchasers of their option to purchase additional 2030 Convertible Notes, we entered into capped calls (the 2030 Capped Calls) with certain counterparties. We used $27.8 million of the net proceeds from the 2030 Convertible Notes to pay the cost of the 2030 Capped Calls. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 8,536 $ (621) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (3,590) 4,675 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (2,819) 3,142 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 158 233 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 2,285 $ 7,429 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities was $8.5 million, primarily due to our net loss of $25.0 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $17.2 million and net cash inflow of $16.4 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $11.0 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.3 million related to debt issuance costs, stock-based compensation expense of $4.3 million, non-cash lease expense of $0.7 million, and provision for accounts receivable allowance of $0.1 million. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable of $24.4 million, a decrease in inventory of $2.1 million, a decrease in other assets of $2.0 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $3.9 million, partially offset by an increase in contract origination costs of $0.3 million, an increase in project assets of $1.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $10.5 million, a decrease in deferred revenue of $3.0 million, and a decrease in lease liabilities of $0.5 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $0.6 million, primarily due to our net loss of $72.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $19.7 million and net cash inflow of $52.0 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $10.8 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.4 million, stock-based compensation expense of $8.4 million, non-cash lease expense of $0.8 million, and other non-cash items of $0.3 million, partially offset by provision for accounts receivable allowance of $1.0 million. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable of $63.9 million partially from a $33.1 million variable consideration adjustment, a decrease in inventory of $2.2 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $1.7 million, and an increase in deferred revenue of $2.7 million, partially offset by an increase in other assets of $0.7 million, an increase in contract origination costs of $0.4 million, an increase in project assets of $0.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $16.3 million, and a decrease in lease liabilities of $0.8 million. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in investing activities was $3.6 million, and consisted of $3.6 million in capital expenditures related to internally-developed software. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $4.7 million, and primarily consisted of $8.3 million in proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale investments, partially offset by $0.1 million in purchases of energy systems, $3.5 million in capital expenditures related to internally-developed software, and $0.1 million in purchases of property and equipment. 35 Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities was $2.8 million, and primarily consisted of the repayment of financing obligations of $2.8 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by financing activities was $3.1 million, and primarily consisted of proceeds from equity transactions to be remitted to tax authorities of $5.2 million, partially offset by the repayment of financing obligations of $2.1 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2025, except as discussed in Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, or unconsolidated VIEs that either have, or would reasonably be expected to have, a current or future material adverse effect on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates is presented in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, and there have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates during the threemonths ended March 31, 2025. Recent Accounting Pronouncements As of March 31, 2025, there have been no material changes to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024.