Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes included in Item 1, Financial Statements, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a pre-clinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Recent Developments Core-Business Focus Program On May 15, 2023, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized, and the Company commenced, a core-business focus program while the Company seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. This core-business focus program includes the cessation of research and development activities not related to LIBERTY, including terminating the Companys agreement with CardioSert for that technology, and returning intellectual property relating to the SCS (Virob) and TipCat to TRDF. Cost Reduction Plan On May 15, 2023, in addition to the core-business focus program described above, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized, and the Company commenced, a cost reduction plan while the Company seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. This cost reduction plan includes: Focus its research & development and regulatory efforts to complete the LIBERTYs verification and validation process (V&V), complete robotics build-up and execute first in human cases outside the USA. Postpone a GLP study for LIBERTY until the completion of the V&V. Harel Gadot, Chairman, President and CEO of the Company, has agreed to a reduction of 50% of his base salary, with terms and conditions with respect to the reduction period to be determined. All other executive officers have agreed to a reduction of 30-40% of base salary, with terms and conditions with respect to the reduction period to be determined. The independent members of the Board of Directors have agreed to a suspension of their director fees, with reinstatement of such fees to be determined. Freeze on new hires. Reduce employee headcount in both the US and Israel offices which are not directly involved in the research & development and/or regulatory process of LIBERTY, while retaining research & development and clinical-related employees to support the completion of the V&V and production of LIBERTY systems. Professor Moshe Shoham, a co-founder of the Company and currently a member of its Scientific Advisory Board, will waive his SAB fees, with fees payable to the remaining SAB members to be restructured. Postpone CE activities for the LIBERTY device. We expect that the savings generated from such cost-reduction activities will enable us to continue the V&V and first-in-human cases planned in Brazil or elsewhere, through September 30, 2023, while we continue to seek new sources of financings to stabilize our finances. First-In-Human Clinical Cases We recently announced that we have initiated preparations for potential First-In-Human cases in Brazil, by engaging with interventional radiologist Prof. Francisco Cesar Carnevale. The engagement with Prof. Carnevale, from University of Sao Paulo Medical School Hospital, is expected to support our intention to conduct a first-in-human clinical trial in Brazil as part of our ongoing clinical and regulatory efforts. The potential clinical cases are expected to commence upon completion of the V&V process of our LIBERTY Robotic system, as well as obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals to perform those cases. We are also exploring options to conduct First-In-Human trials or cases in other places where the regulatory laws allow. Catheterization Milestone On May 3, 2023, we announced that the LIBERTY Robotic system has surpassed its 100th catheterization during multiple pre-clinical studies, with a 95% success rate of reaching pre-determined vascular targets, such as distal branches of hepatic, gastric, splenic, mesenteric, renal and hypogastric arteries. Moreover, all of the procedures were completed without notable signs of intraoperative injury. Technological Platforms LIBERTY On January 13, 2020, Microbot unveiled what it believes is the worlds first fully disposable robotic system for use in endovascular interventional procedures, such as cardiovascular, peripheral and neurovascular. The LIBERTY robotic system features a unique compact design with the capability to be operated remotely, reduce radiation exposure and physical strain to the physician, reduce the risk of cross contamination, as well as the potential to eliminate the use of multiple consumables when used with its One & Done capabilities, which would be based in part on our One & Done and NovaCross platforms or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies. 13 LIBERTY is designed to maneuver guidewires and over-the-wire devices (such as microcatheters) within the bodys vasculature. It eliminates the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated Cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. In addition, when combined with our One & Done technology or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies, it is being designed to streamline Cath-lab procedures with tools that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. With control over tip curvature and stiffness for maneuverability and access and without the need for constant tool exchanges when integrated into the LIBERTY device, the device may drastically reduce procedure time and costs while enhancing the operator experience. We believe LIBERTYs addressable markets are the Interventional Cardiology, Interventional Radiology and Interventional Neuroradiology markets. The unique characteristics of LIBERTY compact, mobile, disposable and remotely controlled - open the opportunity of expanding telerobotic interventions to patients with limited access to life-saving procedures, such as mechanical thrombectomy in ischemic stroke. LIBERTY is being designed to have the following attributes: Compact size - Eliminates the need for large capital equipment in dedicated cath-lab rooms with dedicated staff. Fully disposable - To our knowledge, the first and only fully disposable, robotic system for endovascular procedures. Streamlines Cath-lab procedures Can be made compatible with Microbots unique One & Done tool and/or NitiLoops NovaCross products or possibly other guidewire/microcatheter technologies, that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. The One & Done tool, when integrated into the system, is expected to provide full control over tip curvature and stiffness for maneuverability and access without the need for constant tool exchanges, while enhancing the operator experience. State of the art maneuverability - Provides linear, rotational and tip control of its One & Done tool when integrated into the system, as well as linear motion for an additional over the wire device. Compatibility with a wide range of commercially-available guidewires, microcatheters and guide-catheters. Enhanced operator safety and comfort Aims to reduce exposure to ionizing radiation and the need for heavy lead vests otherwise to be worn during procedures, as well as reducing the exposure to Hospital Acquired Infections (HAI). Ease of use - LIBERTYs intuitive remote controls aims to simplify advanced procedures while shortening the physicians learning curve. Telemedicine compatible - Capable of supporting tele-catheterization, carried out remotely by highly trained specialists. On August 17, 2020, Microbot announced the successful conclusion of its feasibility animal study using the LIBERTY robotic system. The study met all of its end points with no intraoperative adverse events, which supports Microbots objectives to allow physicians to conduct a catheter-based procedure from outside the catheterization laboratory (cath-lab), avoiding radiation exposure, physical strain and the risk of cross contamination. The study was performed by two leading physicians in the neuro vascular and peripheral vascular intervention spaces, and the results demonstrated robust navigation capabilities, intuitive usability and accurate deployment of embolic agents, most of which was conducted remotely from the cath-labs control room. On December 22, 2021, we entered into a strategic collaboration agreement for technology co-development with Stryker Corporation, acting through its Neurovascular Division. Pursuant to the agreement, the collaborative development program between Stryker and us aims to integrate certain of Strykers instruments with our LIBERTY Robotic System to address certain neurovascular procedures. The activities contemplated by the Agreement shall be specified in one or more development plans derived from the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. We are still determining scheduling to move the collaboration forward. 14 In December 2021, we achieved design freeze of the LIBERTY device. In the first quarter of 2022, we filed our pre-submission package for the LIBERTY Robotic System with the FDA, addressing the regulatory pathway for the LIBERTY Robotic System. On July 22, 2022, the Company completed a pre-submission process with the FDA regarding the LIBERTY device. Formal feedback from the FDA included a recommendation to perform a clinical study and a human factors validation study, to support clearance through the 510(k) notification process. In September and October 2022, the Company conducted an animal study at an FDA accredited European-based MedTech research laboratory, which was performed by a team of seasoned Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) in the endovascular space, using porcine model. During the animal study, the physicians conducted 63 navigations to the targeted sites using the investigational LIBERTY Robotic System and performed an equal number of procedures manually. The LIBERTY Robotic System received positive feedback from participating physicians, and there were no observable immediate intraoperative adverse events, or harm, to the test subjects. The report from the animal study, which included histopathology data (the microscopic examination of tissue to study the manifestations of disease), exhibited equivocal results which were identified as related to unusual physiological animal responses in both manual and robotic test groups. The Company believes the results of the study allow it to move forward and focus on the next phases to ultimately include a U.S.-based pivotal pre-clinical study. The Company, together with its regulatory experts and consultants, believe a larger sample size and robust data generated by this study will advance the companys efforts towards the submission of Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). One & DoneTM Technology On April 8, 2018, we acquired a patent-protected technology from CardioSert Ltd., a privately-held medical device company based in Israel that was part of a technological incubator supported by the Israel Innovation Authorities. The CardioSert technology contemplates a combination of a guidewire and microcatheter, technologies that are broadly used for surgery within a tubular organ or structure such as a blood vessel or duct. The CardioSert technology features a unique guidewire delivery system with steering and stiffness control capabilities which when developed is expected to give the physician the ability to control the tip curvature, to adjust tip load to varying degrees of stiffness in a gradually continuous manner. The technology was originally developed to support interventional cardiologists in crossing chronic total occlusions (CTO) during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures and has the potential to be used in other spaces and applications, such as peripheral intervention, and neurosurgery. Our CardioSert tool is now trademarked as One & DoneTM. Microbot had been exploring the integration of the One & DoneTM technology into the LIBERTY endovascular robotic system for a range of potential applications in the cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and neurovascular spaces. However, as a result of its recently enacted core-business focus program and its cost reduction plan, the Company has terminated its existing agreement with CardioSert Ltd., which could result in the technology being re-acquired by CardioSert Ltd. for nominal consideration. NovaCrossTM On October 6, 2022, we purchased substantially all of the assets, including intellectual property, devices, components and product related materials of Nitiloop Ltd., an Israeli limited liability company. The assets include intellectual property and technology in the field of intraluminal revascularization devices with anchoring mechanism and integrated microcatheter, and the products or potential products incorporating the technology owned by Nitiloop and designated by Nitiloop as NovaCross, NovaCross Xtreme and NovaCross BTK and any enhancements, modifications and improvements. 15 ViRob The ViRob is an autonomous crawling micro-robot which can be controlled remotely or within the body. Its miniature dimensions are expected to allow it to navigate and crawl in different natural spaces within the human body, including blood vessels, the digestive tract and the respiratory system as well as artificial spaces such as shunts, catheters, ports, etc. Its unique structure is expected to give it the ability to move in tight spaces and curved passages as well as the ability to remain within the human body for prolonged time. The SCS product was developed using the ViRob technology. On October 11, 2022, we announced that we are planning to focus our strategic efforts on the growing endovascular space and advancing the LIBERTY Robotic System to achieve its regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as expanding the LIBERTY ecosystem, and made a strategic decision to suspend the continued research and development of the SCS project, effective at that date. The SCS generally performed as expected during testing, both internally and externally, and we believe it continues to have potential clinical value as evidenced by the pre-clinical data submitted to the FDA, which allowed us to successfully apply for the Early Feasibility Study program administered by the FDA. However, the conflicting commercialization pathways between LIBERTY and the SCS due to different hospital call points, and the anticipated lengthier regulatory process of the SCS, led us to believe that focusing our strategic efforts on the LIBERTY Robotic System will provide us with a greater opportunity for success and future growth. We had been exploring opportunities with the SCS assets with the focus on maximizing shareholders value, including seeking buyers for the assets, entering into joint ventures, licensing arrangements, spinning-off the assets into a new operating company or discontinue the project altogether. However, as a result of our recently enacted core-business focus program and our cost reduction plan, we have been in contact with TRDF, the licensor of the technology, and intend to return the licensed intellectual property for the SCS (ViRob) back to TRDF in the second fiscal quarter of 2023 in accordance with the terms of its license agreement, as we have not been successful in any such possible other opportunities. TipCAT The TipCAT is a disposable self-propelled locomotive device that is specially designed to advance in tubular anatomies. The TipCAT is a mechanism comprising a series of interconnected balloons at the devices tip that provides the TipCAT with its forward locomotion capability. The device can self-propel within natural tubular lumens such as the blood vessels, respiratory and the urinary and GI tracts. A single channel of air/fluid supply sequentially inflates and deflates a series of balloons creating an inchworm like forward motion. The TipCAT maintains a standard working channel for treatments. Unlike standard access devices such as guidewires, catheters for vascular access and endoscopes, the TipCAT does not need to be pushed into the patients lumen using external pressure; rather, it will gently advance itself through the organs anatomy. As a result, the TipCAT is designed to be able to reach every part of the lumen under examination regardless of the topography, be less operator dependent, and greatly reduce the likelihood of damage to lumen structure. The TipCAT thus offers functionality features equivalent to modern tubular access devices, along with advantages associated with its physiologically adapted self-propelling mechanism, flexibility, and design. We have been exploring the use of the TipCAT for minimally invasive neurosurgical and endovascular applications to complement our other technologies. However, as a result of our recently enacted core-business focus program and our cost reduction plan, we have been in contact with TRDF, the licensor of the technology, and intend to return the licensed intellectual property for the TipCAT back to TRDF in the second fiscal quarter of 2023 in accordance with the terms of its license agreement, as we do not have the funds to continue to develop this technology. Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries and benefits, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting and legal services, and allocated overhead expenses. Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses may increase in the future as it expands its operating activities, maintains and expands its patent portfolio and maintains compliance with exchange listing and SEC requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. 16 Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with ASC Topic 450 Contingencies. A provision is recorded when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters to determine if any adjustments are required. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 17 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change Research and development expenses $ (1,617 ) $ (1,706 ) $ 89 General and administrative expenses (1,302 ) (1,470 ) 168 Financing income (expenses), net 66 (13 ) 79 Research and Development Expenses. Microbots research and development expenses were approximately $1,617,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to approximately $1,706,000 for the comparable period in 2022. The decrease in research and development expenses for the period presented was primarily due to increases relating to the initial preparations to transfer the LIBERTY device from research & development to low volume and controlled production (to be used for bench, animal and clinical trials), offset by decreases in payroll due to a decrease in the number of employees. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were approximately $1,302,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to approximately $1,470,000 for the comparable period in 2022. The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the period presented was primarily due to increases in travel and professional service expenses, offset by decreases in payroll expenses resulting from not recording a bonus accrual in the first fiscal quarter of 2023 and decreases in director and officer insurance premiums. Financing Income (Expenses), net. Financing income was approximately $66,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to financing expenses of approximately $13,000 for the comparable period in 2022. The increase in financing income for the period presented was primarily due to an increase in interest income and unrealized gains from marketable securities offset by exchange rate expenses recorded due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the NIS. Liquidity and Capital Resources Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for all periods presented. As of March 31, 2023, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $4,348,000, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. This compares to net working capital of approximately $6,745,000 as of December 31, 2022. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its primary product candidates and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through March 31, 2023, Microbot has raised net cash proceeds of approximately $59,000,000 and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $71,614,000. Microbot returned $3,375,000 (before interest) of such proceeds as a result of an adverse outcome in a litigation that concluded in the first quarter of 2020 and is now subject to an additional lawsuit seeking the return of an additional $6,750,000 of such proceeds. This litigation is in its discovery stages, and we cannot project what the eventual outcome will be, though management is vigorously defending its position that no return of capital is warranted. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through March 31, 2023 in the total amount of approximately $1,500,000. On January 4, 2018, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with CardioSert to acquire certain of its patent-protected technology. CardioSert received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. On October 6, 2022, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with Nitiloop Ltd. to acquire substantially all of its assets. Nitiloop received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $925,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. 18 Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-3.5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grants. The grants are linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of USD LIBOR. Under the terms of the grants and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grants, if the applicable project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. To date, we have not generated revenues from our operations. As of March 31, 2023, we had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $5,057,000, excluding encumbered cash, which management believes is sufficient to fund our operations for approximately four months from the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or through September 30, 2023, as a result of our recently enacted cost reduction plan. However, in the event we are unsuccessful in our current litigation discussed above, pursuant to which certain investors are seeking the return of $6,750,000 in proceeds we received from them in a 2017 stock offering, we will not have funds to continue our operation. As a result of the foregoing and our current cash position, these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern beyond approximately the next four months, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, expand our business and develop our planned products. Microbot recently commenced a core-business focus program and a costreduction plan while it seeks to raise additional capital to continue development of the LIBERTY robotic system. See Part II, Item 5. Other Information below. As a result, Microbot will be unable, until it succeeds in raising substantial additional capital, to continue to fund its research and development activities relating to additional product candidates, and will need additional funds to continue the FDA approval process for the Liberty device after the third quarter of 2023. To the extent available, Microbot intends to raise capital through future issuances of debt and/or equity securities including registered offerings under its existing Registration Statement on Form S-3, which it may draw down from time to time subject to limitations on our use of Registration Statements on Form S-3 as a result of our public float. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs, at the times it needs it or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Microbot is not able to secure adequate additional working capital by June 30, 2023, it intends to make additional significant reductions in spending beyond those contemplated by its recently enacted cost reduction plan, extend payment terms with suppliers if available, liquidate assets if and where possible, further suspend or curtail planned research programs, or even shut down its business entirely. As a result of the foregoing, we are unable to fully implement our business plan without raising additional capital, if at all, and these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated interim financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on recoverability and reclassification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash flows used in operating activities $ (3,203 ) $ (3,007 ) Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities 2,883 (16 ) Net cash flows from financing activities - - Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (320 ) $ (3,023 ) Net cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were approximately $3,203,000, calculated by adjusting our net loss from operations by approximately $350,000. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was approximately $3,007,000, similarly adjusted by approximately $182,000. The increase in net cash flows used in operating activities was due to the timing of payroll payments, whereby payments related to our March 2023 payroll were paid within the fiscal quarter and payments related to our March 2022 payroll were paid on April 1, 2022. 19 Net cash flows from investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were approximately $2,883,000, resulting from proceeds from sale of a marketable security, maturities of marketable securities and short term deposit in the amount of $3,521,000, offset by purchase of a marketable security in the amount of $638,000, compared to net cash flows used in investing activities in the prior comparable period as a result of purchase of property and equipment in the amount of $16,000.