Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes included in Item 1, Financial Statements, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a pre-clinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its micro-robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Microbots current technological platforms, ViRob TM , TipCAT TM and Liberty (including certain CardioSert assets), are comprised of proprietary innovative technologies. Using the ViRob platform, Microbot is currently developing the Self Cleaning Shunt, or SCSTM, for the treatment of hydrocephalus and Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus, or NPH. Utilizing the Liberty and CardioSert platforms, Microbot is developing the first ever fully disposable robot for various endovascular interventional procedures. In addition, the Company is focused on the development of a Multi Generation Pipeline Portfolio utilizing all of its proprietary technologies. Microbot has a patent portfolio of 37 issued/allowed patents and 15 patent applications pending worldwide. Technological Platforms ViRob The ViRob is an autonomous crawling micro-robot which can be controlled remotely or within the body. Its miniature dimensions are expected to allow it to navigate and crawl in different natural spaces within the human body, including blood vessels, the digestive tract and the respiratory system as well as artificial spaces such as shunts, catheters, ports, etc. Its unique structure is expected to give it the ability to move in tight spaces and curved passages as well as the ability to remain within the human body for prolonged time. The SCS product was developed using the ViRob technology. 18 TipCAT The TipCAT is a disposable self-propelled locomotive device that is specially designed to advance in tubular anatomies. The TipCAT is a mechanism comprising a series of interconnected balloons at the devices tip that provides the TipCAT with its forward locomotion capability. The device can self-propel within natural tubular lumens such as the blood vessels, respiratory and the urinary and GI tracts. A single channel of air/fluid supply sequentially inflates and deflates a series of balloons creating an inchworm like forward motion. The TipCAT maintains a standard working channel for treatments. Unlike standard access devices such as guidewires, catheters for vascular access and endoscopes, the TipCAT does not need to be pushed into the patients lumen using external pressure; rather, it will gently advance itself through the organs anatomy. As a result, the TipCAT is designed to be able to reach every part of the lumen under examination regardless of the topography, be less operator dependent, and greatly reduce the likelihood of damage to lumen structure. The TipCAT thus offers functionality features equivalent to modern tubular access devices, along with advantages associated with its physiologically adapted self-propelling mechanism, flexibility, and design. CardioSert On May 25, 2018, Microbot acquired a patent-protected technology from CardioSert Ltd., a privately-held medical device company based in Israel that was part of a technological incubator supported by the Israel Innovation Authorities. The CardioSert technology contemplates a combination of a guidewire and microcatheter, technologies that are broadly used for surgery within a tubular organ or structure such as a blood vessel or duct. The CardioSert technology features a unique guidewire delivery system with steering and stiffness control capabilities which when developed is expected to give the physician the ability to control the tip curvature, to adjust tip load to varying degrees of stiffness in a gradually continuous manner. The CardioSert technology was originally developed to support interventional cardiologists in crossing chronic total occlusions (CTO) during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures and has the potential to be used in other spaces and applications, such as peripheral intervention, and neurosurgery. CardioSert was part of a technological incubator supported by the Israel Innovation Authorities (formerly known as the Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS), and a device based on the technology has successfully completed pre-clinical testing. Although the CardioSert technology was originally developed to support interventional cardiologists in crossing chronic total occlusions (CTO) during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures, it has the potential to be used in other spaces and applications, such as neurosurgery. Liberty On January 13, 2020, Microbot unveiled what it believes is the worlds first fully disposable robotic system for use in Endovascular Interventional procedures, such as cardiovascular, peripheral and neurovascular. The Liberty robotic system features a unique compact design with the capability to be operated remotely, reduce radiation exposure and physical strain to the physician, as well as the potential to eliminate the use of multiple consumables through its One & Done capabilities, based in part on the CardioSert platform. Liberty is designed to maneuver guidewires, microcatheters and over-the-wire devices within the bodys vasculature. It eliminates the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated Cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. In addition, it is being designed to streamline Cath-lab procedures with our proprietary One & Done tool that combines guidewire and microcatheter into a single device. With control over tip curvature and stiffness for maneuverability and access and without the need for constant tool exchanges the One & Done feature of Liberty may drastically reduce procedure time and costs while enhancing the operator experience. We are continuously exploring and evaluating additional innovative guidewire/microcatheter technologies to be integrated and combined with the Liberty robotic platform. 19 Financial Operations Overview General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management costs, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting and legal services, and allocated overhead expenses. Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses may increase in the future as it expands its operating activities, maintains and expands its patent portfolio and incurs costs associated with being a public company and maintaining compliance with exchange listing and SEC requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Microbots managements discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. On an ongoing basis, Microbot evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to accrued research and development expenses. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its financial condition and results of operations. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 20 Foreign Currency Translation Microbots functional currency is the U.S. dollars, and its reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Government Grant and Input Tax Credit Recoveries Microbot from time to time has received, and may in the future continue to receive, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority to cover eligible company expenditures. These are presented as other income in the statement of operations and comprehensive loss as the grant funds are used for or applied towards a number of Microbots operating expenses, such as salaries and benefits, research and development and professional and consulting fees. The recoveries are recognized in the corresponding period when such expenses are incurred. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, and obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio. Microbot recognizes research and development expenses as incurred, typically estimated based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as clinical site activations, manufacturing steps completed, or information provided by vendors on their actual costs incurred. Microbot determines the estimates by reviewing contracts, vendor agreements and purchase orders, and through discussions with internal clinical personnel and external service providers as to the progress or stage of completion of trials or services and the agreed-upon fee to be paid for such services. These estimates are made as of each balance sheet date based on facts and circumstances known to Microbot at that time. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, Microbot will adjust the estimate accordingly. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services, including fees for process development or manufacturing and distribution of clinical supplies that will be used in future research and development activities, are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as expense in the period that the related goods are consumed or services are performed. Microbot may pay fees to third-parties for manufacturing and other services that are based on contractual milestones that may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the research and development expense. Results of Operations Comparison of Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, Increase/ Six months ended June 30, Increase/ 2020 2019 (Decrease) 2020 2019 (Decrease) Research and development expenses, net $ 669 $ 741 $ (72 ) $ 1,360 $ 1,364 $ (4 ) General and administrative expenses 1,215 804 411 2,687 2,097 590 Financing expenses/(income), net (29 ) (3 ) 26 13 42 (29 ) Research and Development Expenses . Microbots research and development expenses were approximately $669,000 and $1,360,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to approximately $741,000 and $1,364,000 for the same period in 2019. The decrease in research and development expenses of approximately $ 72,000 in 2020 was primarily due to a decrease during the three months ended June 30, 2020 of professional services relating to development expenses. Microbot expects its research and development expenses to continue to increase over time as Microbot advances its development programs and begins pre-clinical and clinical trials for its product candidates. 21 General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses were approximately $1,215,000 and $2,687,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to approximately $804,000 and $2,097,000 for the same period in 2019. The increase in general and administrative expenses of approximately $ 590,000 in the six months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due increase in the salaries, insurance expenses, rent, share based compensation, offset by a decrease in professional services expenses relating to legal fees and travels expenses. Microbot believes its general and administrative expenses may increase over time as it advances its programs, increases its headcount and operating activities and incurs expenses associated with being a public company. Financing Expenses . Financing income (expenses) were approximately $29,000 and $(13,000) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to approximately $3,000 and $(42,000) for the same period in 2019. The decrease in financial income for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to interest relating the litigation. Liquidity and Capital Resources Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. As of June 30, 2020, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $27,917,000 consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents. This compares to net working capital of approximately $31,110,000 as of December 31, 2019. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its product candidates, hires additional staff, including clinical, scientific, operational, financial and management personnel, and incurs additional costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA), and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through June 30, 2020, Microbot has raised net cash proceeds of approximately $54,770,000, and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $39,171,000. Microbot recently returned $3,375,000 (before interest) of such proceeds as a result of an adverse outcome in a litigation that concluded in the six months ended June 30, 2020, and is now subject to an additional lawsuit seeking the return of an additional $6,750,000 (before interest) of such proceeds. Microbot Israel obtained from the IIA grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through June 30, 2020 in the total amount of approximately $1,500,000 and, in return, Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-3.5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grant. The grant is linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of USD LIBOR. Under the terms of the grant and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grant, if the SCS project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. Microbot believes that its net cash will be sufficient to fund its operations for at least 24 months and fund operations necessary to continue development activities of its product candidates. However, in the event we are unsuccessful in our current litigation with certain investors, pursuant to which they are seeking the return of $6,750,000 (plus interest) in proceeds we received from them in a 2017 stock offering, we may have funds for less than 24 months. In either case, management believes that Microbot has sufficient net cash to fund its operations necessary to continue development activities of its current proposed products for at least 12 months from the issuance date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Microbot plans to continue to fund its research and development and other operating expenses, other development activities relating to additional product candidates, and the associated losses from operations, through its existing cash and possibly additional grants from the IIA. Microbot may also raise capital through future issuances of debt and/or equity securities. These issuances may be opportunistic and even if the company has enough funds at such time for operations for more than 12-24 months. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Microbot is not able to secure adequate additional working capital when it becomes needed, it may be required to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned research programs. Any of these actions could materially harm Microbots business. 22 Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Six months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,888 ) $ (3,200 ) Net cash - in investing activities 2,445 (2,496 ) Net cash - financing activities (3,375 ) 9,562 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (4,818 ) $ 3,866 Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was approximately $3,888,000, calculated by adjusting net loss from operations by approximately $172,000 to eliminate non-cash and expense items not involving cash flows such as depreciation and shares based compensation, as well as other changes in current assets and liabilities resulting in non-cash adjustments in the income statement . Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was approximately $3,200,000, similarly adjusted by approximately $303,000. Net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was approximately $2,445,000, compared to net cash used in investing activities of approximately $2,496,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2019, which consisted of primarily marketable securities. Net cash used in financing activities of $3,375,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately $9,562,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 consisted of issuance of common stock and warrants and repayment of shareholders investments relating to litigation . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Microbot has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.