ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as other statements we make, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts. Such statements often contain words such as expect, may, can, believe, predict, plan, potential, projected, projections, forecast, estimate, intend, anticipate, ambition, goal, target, think, should, could, would, will, hope, see, likely, and other similar words. Forward-looking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain, such as statements about financial and performance targets and other forecasts or expectations regarding, or dependent on, our business outlook; our expectations regarding future estimates of variable consideration in connection with guarantees in certain customer contracts, and the resulting effects on revenue; our ability to secure sufficient and timely inventory from suppliers; our ability to meet contracted customer demand; our ability to manage manufacturing or delivery delays; our ability to manage our supply chain and distribution channels; our joint ventures, partnerships and other alliances; forecasts or expectations regarding energy transition and global climate change; reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; the integration and optimization of energy resources; our business strategies and those of our customers; our ability to retain or upgrade current customers, further penetrate existing markets or expand into new markets; the effects of natural disasters and other events beyond our control; the direct or indirect effects on our business of macroeconomic factors and geopolitical instability, such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Gaza Strip and nearby areas; the expected benefits of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 on our business; and our future results of operations, including revenue and adjusted EBITDA. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to our inability to secure sufficient and timely inventory from our suppliers, as well as contracted quantities of equipment; our inability to meet contracted customer demand; supply chain interruptions and manufacturing or delivery delays; disruptions in sales, production, service or other business activities; general macroeconomic and business conditions in key regions of the world, including inflationary pressures, general economic slowdown or a recession, rising interest rates, changes in monetary policy, and instability in financial institutions; the direct and indirect effects of widespread health emergencies on our workforce, operations, financial results and cash flows; geopolitical instability, such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Gaza Strip and nearby areas; the results of operations and financial condition of our customers and suppliers; pricing pressures; severe weather and seasonal factors; our inability to continue to grow and manage our growth effectively; our inability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; our inability to comply with, and the effect on our business of, evolving legal standards and regulations, including those concerning data protection, consumer privacy, sustainability, and evolving labor standards; risks relating to the development and performance of our energy storage systems and software-enabled services; our inability to retain or upgrade current customers, further penetrate existing markets or expand into new markets; the risk that our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by other political, economic, business and competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, and in our other filings with the SEC. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of any such development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results or outcomes, or the timing of these results or outcomes, may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and other statements in this Report regarding our environmental, social, and other sustainability plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental, social, and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Forward-looking statements in this Report are made as of the date of this Report, and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this Report, except as required by law. You should read the following managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis should also be read together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results or Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. You should carefully read the sections entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors herein to gain an understanding of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. 23 Overview Our mission is to maximize the economic, environmental, and resiliency value of renewable energy assets through our leading artificial intelligence (AI)platform. In order to fulfill our mission, we provide our customers, which include energy traders, asset owners, independent power producers, community choice aggregators, offtakers, renewable project developers, EPCs, O&M providers, electric cooperatives, utilities, load-serving entities, and grid operators, with (i) energy storage hardware, sourced from leading, global battery OEMs, that we deliver through our partners, including developers, distributors and EPC firms, (ii) edge hardware to aid in the collection of site data and the real-time operation and control of the site plus other optional equipment, and (iii) an ongoing software platform, Athena, and services to operate and manage the performance of standalone energy storage, integrated solar plus storage systems, and solar assets. In addition, in all of the markets where we help manage our customers clean energy assets, we have agreements to use the Athena platform to participate in such markets and to share the revenue from such market participation. We operate in two key areas within the energy landscape: Behind-the-Meter (BTM) and Front-of-the-Meter (FTM). An energy systems position in relation to a customers electric meter determines whether it is designated a BTM or FTM system. BTM systems provide power that can be used on-site without interacting with the electric grid and passing through an electric meter. FTM, grid-connected systems provide power to off-site locations and must pass through an electric meter prior to reaching an end-user. For BTM customers, Athena mitigates customer energy costs through services such as time-of-use and demand charge management optimization and by aggregating the dispatch of energy through a network of virtual power plants. Our software is designed to reduce C&I customer energy bills, increase their energy yield, and help our customers facilitate the achievement of their corporate environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) and carbon reduction objectives. Through PowerTrack, our software maximizes solar energy output and minimizes asset downtime. For FTM customers, our software decreases risk for project developers, asset owners, independent power producers and investors by adapting to dynamic energy market conditions in connection with the deployment of electricity and improving the value of energy assets over the course of their FTM systems lifetime. Since our inception in 2009, we have engaged in developing and marketing software-enabled services, raising capital, and recruiting personnel. We have incurred net operating losses and negative cash flows from operations each year since our inception. We have financed our operations primarily through cash flows from customers, proceeds from the Merger, convertible senior notes, and issuance of convertible preferred stock. Our total revenue decreased from $67.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $25.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred net losses of $72.3 million and $44.8 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $844.8 million. We expect that our sales and marketing, research and development, regulatory and other expenses will continue to increase as we expand our marketing efforts to increase sales of our solutions, expand existing relationships with our customers, and obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for future product enhancements. In addition, we expect our general and administrative costs and expenses to increase due to the additional costs associated with scaling our business operations as well as being a public company, including legal, accounting, insurance, exchange listing and SEC compliance, investor relations and other costs and expenses. Key Factors, Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Business We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors, some of which present significant opportunities for us, and some of which pose risks and challenges, including but not limited to: Seasonality Our results of operations have typically fluctuated due to seasonal trends, which we expect to recur in future periods. Historically, we have recognized most of our revenue in the third and fourth fiscal quarters of each year due to various factors, including the requirement by our customers to reach target commercial operation dates for their renewable energy projects as well as tax equity and financing considerations. For instance, our revenue recognized in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 accounted for 65% of the total revenue recognized in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. The seasonality of our results of operations may be mitigated as our software and services offerings begin to comprise a greater percentage of our total revenue. Customer Concentration We depend on a small number of significant customers for our sales, and a small number of customers have historically accounted for a material portion of our revenue. While we are committed to diversifying our customer base, we may continue to 24 derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers. Loss of a significant customer, the inability to close a significant contract at any time, or a significant reduction in pricing or order volume from a significant customer, could materially reduce our revenue in a given quarter and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Supply Chain Constraints and Risk We rely on a very small number of suppliers of energy storage systems and other equipment. If any of our suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with contracted quantities in a timely manner at prices, quality levels, and volumes acceptable to us, we would have very limited alternatives for supply, and we may not be able find suitable replacements for our customers, if at all. Such an event could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. DevCo Joint Ventures We, through an indirect wholly-owned development subsidiary, have entered into strategic joint ventures with qualified third parties to develop select energy storage generation projects (DevCo Projects), as more fully described above under Note 1 Business, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this report. These projects require significant upfront investment by us and involve a high degree of risk. These projects require significant upfront investment by us and involve a high degree of risk. If a DevCo Project fails to reach completion or is significantly delayed, we could lose all or a portion of our development capital investment. See We Face Risks Related to our DevCo Business Model in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 for additional information about certain risks related to these DevCo Projects. Parent Company Guarantees Prior to July 2023, we agreed in certain customer contracts, to provide a guarantee that the value of purchased hardware will not decline for a certain period of time, as more fully described above under Note 3 Revenue, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this report. We account for such contractual terms and guarantees as variable consideration at each measurement date. We update our estimates of variable consideration each quarter, including changes in estimates related to such guarantees, for facts or circumstances that have changed from the time of the initial estimate. As a result, the Company recorded a net revenue reduction of $33.1 million in hardware revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The overall reduction in revenue was related to deliveries that occurred prior to the current fiscal year. Because we have not included these parent company guarantees in our contracts since July 2023, and because we do not intend to provide guarantees in customer contracts going forward, we believe that excluding the effect of the $33.1 million net reduction in revenue from adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit enhances the comparability to these metrics in prior periods. We do not intend to provide such parent company guarantees in customer contracts going forward. Depending on various market conditions in the future that we cannot currently predict, we may experience future revenue reductions as a result of outstanding guarantees, one or more of which may be material. Decline in Lithium-Ion Battery Costs Our revenue growth is directly tied to the continued adoption of energy storage systems by our customers. The cost of lithium-ion energy storage hardware has generally declined over the last decade, but increased demand and global supply chain constraints could cause price increases in the future. The market for energy storage is rapidly evolving, and while we believe costs will continue to decline over time, there is no guarantee. If costs do not continue to decline, or do not decline as quickly as we anticipate, this could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business. The United States Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) was signed into law in August 2022 and includes incentives and tax credits aimed at reducing the effects of climate change, such as a tax credit for stand-alone battery storage projects. The implementation of the IRA is expected to further reduce the cost of battery storage systems for certain customers; however, there are numerous restrictions and requirements associated with qualifying for the tax credits and other incentives available under the IRA, and we continue to assess how the IRA may affect our business. Increase in Deployment of Renewables Deployment of intermittent resources has accelerated over the last decade, and today, wind and solar have become a low cost energy source. We expect the cost of generating renewable energy to continue to decline and deployments of energy storage systems to increase. As renewable energy sources of energy production are expected to represent a larger proportion of energy generation, grid instability rises due to their intermittency, which can be addressed by energy storage solutions. The IRA is expected to further increase the deployment of renewable energy assets. We are continuing to evaluate the IRA and its requirements, as well as the application to our business and our customers. 25 Competition We are a market leader in terms of capacity of energy storage under management. We intend to strengthen our competitive position over time by leveraging the network effect of Athenas AI infrastructure. Existing competitors may expand their product offerings and sales strategies, and new competitors may enter the market. Furthermore, our competitors include other types of software providers and some hardware manufacturers that offer software solutions. If our market share declines due to increased competition, our revenue and ability to generate profits in the future may be adversely affected. Government Regulation and Compliance Although we are not regulated as a utility, the market for our products and services is heavily influenced by federal, state, and local government statutes and regulations concerning electricity. These statutes and regulations, like the IRA, affect electricity pricing, net metering, incentives, taxation, competition with utilities, and the interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and internationally, governments regularly modify these statutes and regulations and acting through state utility or public service commissions, regularly change and adopt different rates for commercial customers. These changes can positively or negatively affect our ability to deliver cost savings to customers. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit and margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures, for financial and operational decision making and as a means to evaluate our operating performance and prospects, develop internal budgets and financial goals, and to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain expenses and expenditures that may not be indicative of our operating performance, such as stock-based compensation and other non-cash charges, as well as discrete cash charges that are infrequent in nature. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate managements internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors because they both (1) allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision making and (2) are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit and margin should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit excluding amortization of capitalized software, impairments related to decommissioning of end-of-life systems, excess supplier costs, reduction in revenue, and revenue constraints. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. We generally record the full purchase order value as revenue at the time of hardware delivery; however, for certain non-cancelable purchase orders entered into during the first quarter of 2023, the final settlement amount payable to us is variable and indexed to the price per ton of lithium carbonate in the first quarter of 2024 such that we may increase or decrease the final prices in such purchase orders based on the price per ton of lithium carbonate at final settlement. Lithium carbonate is a key raw material used in the production of hardware systems that we ultimately sell to our customers. The total dollar amount of such purchase orders for the indexed contracts was approximately $52.0 million. However, due to the pricing structure in such purchase orders, we recorded revenue in the first quarter of 2023 of approximately $42.0 million, net of a $10.2 million revenue constraint, using a third party forecast of the lithium carbonate trading value in the first quarter of 2024. Because we had not previously used indexed pricing in our customer contracts or purchase orders and had not previously constrained revenue related to forecasted inputs of our hardware systems, we believe that including the $10.2 million revenue constraint from the first quarter of 2023 into non-GAAP gross profit enhances the comparability to our non-GAAP gross profit in prior periods. We are expected to receive, pursuant to such purchase orders, final consideration of at least approximately $34.0 million. We recorded the full cost of hardware revenue for these indexed contracts in the first quarter of 2023. In the first quarter of 2024, we incurred costs of $1.0 million above initially agreed prices on the acquisition of certain hardware systems from one of our suppliers, which resulted from production delays by such supplier. Because we had not previously incurred costs above initially agreed prices with a hardware supplier, we excluded this item from adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP gross profit to better facilitate comparisons of our underlying operating performance across periods. 26 The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit and margin (GAAP) to non-GAAP gross profit and margin (in millions, except for percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue $ 25.5 $ 67.4 Cost of revenue (49.7) (66.4) GAAP gross (loss) profit (24.2) 1.0 GAAP gross margin (%) (95) % 1 % Non-GAAP Gross Profit GAAP Revenue $ 25.5 $ 67.4 Add: Revenue constraint (1) 10.2 Add: Revenue reduction, net (2) 33.1 Subtotal 58.6 77.6 Less: Cost of revenue (49.7) (66.4) Add: Amortization of capitalized software & developed technology 3.9 3.0 Add: Impairments 0.9 Add: Excess supplier costs (3) 1.0 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 13.8 $ 15.1 Non-GAAP gross margin (%) 24 % 19 % (1) Refer to the discussion of revenue constraint in Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin above. (2) Refer to the discussion of reduction in revenue in Parent Company Guarantees above. (3) Refer to the discussion of excess supplier costs in Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin above. 27 Adjusted EBITDA As discussed above, we believe that adjusted EBITDA is useful for investors to use in comparing our financial performance with the performance of other companies. Nonetheless, the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude when calculating adjusted EBITDA. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss attributable to us before depreciation and amortization, including amortization of internally developed software, net interest expense, further adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation and other income and expense items, including revenue constraint, reduction in revenue, excess supplier costs, restructuring costs and income tax provision or benefit. The following table provides a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net loss (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net loss $ (72,307) $ (44,778) Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization (1) 11,154 11,958 Interest expense, net 4,707 1,777 Stock-based compensation 8,374 7,202 Revenue constraint (2) 10,200 Revenue reduction, net (3) 33,128 Excess supplier costs (4) 1,012 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 153 (91) Other expenses (5) 1,540 Adjusted EBITDA $ (12,239) $ (13,732) (1) Depreciation and amortization includes depreciation and amortization expense, impairment loss of energy storage systems, and impairment loss of project assets. (2) Refer to the discussion of revenue constraint in Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin above. (3) Refer to the discussion of reduction in revenue in Parent Company Guarantees above. (4) Refer to the discussion of excess supplier costs in Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Margin above. (5) Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2024 reflects the exclusion of other expenses of $1.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, other expenses are comprised of $0.4 million of other non-recurring expenses, and $1.1 million for expenses related to restructuring costs to pursue greater efficiency and to realign our business and strategic priorities. Restructuring expenses consisted of employee severance and other exit costs. 28 Financial Results and Key Metrics The following table presents our financial results and our key metrics (in millions, except for percentages and unless otherwise noted): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Key Financial Metrics Revenue $ 25.5 $ 67.4 GAAP gross (loss) profit $ (24.2) $ 1.0 GAAP gross margin (%) (95) % 1 % Non-GAAP gross profit $ 13.8 $ 15.1 Non-GAAP gross margin (%) 24 % 19 % Net loss $ (72.3) $ (44.8) Adjusted EBITDA $ (12.2) $ (13.7) Key Operating Metrics Bookings (1) $ 23.8 $ 363.5 Contracted backlog* (2) $ 1,639.6 $ 1,242.6 Contracted storage AUM (in GWh)* 5.8 3.5 Solar monitoring AUM (in GW)* (3) 26.9 25.6 CARR* (4) $ 89.3 $ 71.5 * at period end (1)As describedbelow. (2)Total valueofbookingsin dollars, as reflected on a specific date.Backlogincreases as new contractsare executed (bookings) and decreases as integrated storage systemsare delivered and recognizedas revenue. (3)Total GWofsystemsin operation orunder contract. (4) Contracted Annual Recurring Revenue (CARR): Annual run rate for all executed software services contracts including contracts signed in the period for systems that are not yet commissioned or operating. Bookings Due to the long-term nature of our contracts, bookings are a key metric that allows us to understand and evaluate the growth of our Company and our estimated future revenue related to customer contracts for our energy optimization services and transfer of energy storage systems. Bookings represent the accumulated value at a point in time of contracts that have been executed under both our host customer and partnership sales models. For host customer sales, bookings represent the expected consideration from energy optimization services contracts, including estimated incentive payments that are earned by the host customer from utility companies in relation to the services provided by us and assigned by the host customer to us. For host customer sales, there are no differences between bookings and remaining performance obligations at any point in time. For partnership sales, bookings are the sum of the expected consideration to be received from the transfer of hardware and energy optimization services (excluding any potential revenues from market participation). For partnership sales, even though we have secured an executed contract with estimated timing of project delivery and installation from the customer, we do not consider it a contract in accordance with FASB ASU 2014-09 Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), or a remaining performance obligation, until the customer has placed a binding purchase order. A signed customer contract is considered a booking as this indicates the customer has agreed to place a purchase order in the foreseeable future, which typically occurs within three (3) months of contract execution. However, executed customer contracts, without binding purchase orders, are cancellable without penalty by either party. For partnership sales, once a purchase order has been executed, the booking is considered to be a contract in accordance with ASC 606, and therefore, gives rise to a remaining performance obligation as we have an obligation to transfer hardware and energy optimization services in our partnership agreements. We also have the contractual right to receive consideration for our performance obligations. 29 The accounting policy and timing of revenue recognition for host customer contracts and partnership arrangements that qualify as contracts with customers under ASC 606, are described within Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate services and other revenue and hardware revenue. Services and other revenue is mainly generated through arrangements with host customers to provide energy optimization services using our proprietary software platform coupled with a dedicated energy storage system owned and controlled by us throughout the term of the contract. Fees charged to customers for energy optimization services generally consist of recurring fixed monthly payments throughout the term of the contract and in some arrangements, an installation and/or upfront fee component. We may also receive incentives from utility companies in relation to the sale of our services. Services and other revenue also includes the sale of project assets. We separately generate services revenue through partnership arrangements by providing energy optimization services after the developer completes the installation of the project. We generate hardware revenue through partnership arrangements consisting of sales of energy storage system to solar plus storage project developers. Performance obligations are satisfied when the energy storage system along with all ancillary hardware components are delivered. The milestone payments received before the delivery of hardware are treated as deferred revenue. In certain customer contracts, we agreed to provide a guarantee that the value of purchased hardware will not decline for a certain period of time, as more fully described below under Note 3 Revenue, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report. Cost of Revenue Cost of services and other revenue includes depreciation of the cost of energy storage systems we own under long-term customer contracts, which includes capitalized fulfillment costs, such as installation services, permitting and other related costs. Cost of services and other revenue also includes the costs for the development and constructions of project assets. Cost of revenue may also include any impairment of inventory and energy storage systems, along with system maintenance costs associated with the ongoing services provided to customers. Costs of revenue are recognized as energy optimization and other supporting services are provided to our customers throughout the term of the contract. Cost of hardware revenue generally includes the cost of the hardware purchased from a manufacturer, shipping, delivery, and other costs required to fulfill our obligation to deliver the energy storage system to the customer location. Cost of hardware revenue may also include any impairment of energy storage systems held in our inventory for sale to our customer. Cost of hardware revenue related to the sale of energy storage systems is recognized when the delivery of the product is completed. Gross (Loss) Profit Our gross (loss) profit fluctuates significantly from quarter to quarter. Gross (loss) profit, calculated as revenue less costs of revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by various factors, including fluctuations in the amount and mix of revenue and the amount and timing of investments to expand our customer base. Over the long term, we hope to increase both our gross profit in absolute dollars and gross margin as a percentage of revenue through enhanced operational efficiency and economies of scale. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists of payroll and other related personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, commissions, bonuses, employee benefits, and travel for our sales and marketing personnel. In addition, sales and marketing expense includes trade show costs, amortization of intangibles and other expenses. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in future periods to support the overall growth in our business. 30 Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of payroll and other related personnel costs for engineers and third parties engaged in the design and development of products, third-party software and technologies, including salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense, project material costs, services and depreciation. We expect research and development expense to increase in future periods to support our growth, including our investments in optimization, accuracy and reliability of our platform and other technology improvements to support and drive efficiency in our operations. These expenses may vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, depending primarily upon when we choose to make more significant investments. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other related personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and expenses for executive management, legal, finance and other costs. In addition, general and administrative expense includes fees for professional services and occupancy costs. We expect to continue to manage and reduce our general and administrative expense associated with scaling our business operations and being a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. Other Expense, Net Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest on our outstanding borrowings under our outstanding notes payable, convertible senior notes, and financing obligations and accretion on our asset retirement obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of income from equity investments and foreign exchange gains or losses. 31 Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change % Change 2024 2023 (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue Services and other revenue $ 14,840 $ 14,673 $ 167 1% Hardware revenue 10,629 52,732 (42,103) (80)% Total revenue 25,469 67,405 (41,936) (62)% Cost of revenue Cost of services and other revenue 9,984 11,504 (1,520) (13)% Cost of hardware revenue 39,676 54,907 (15,231) (28)% Total cost of revenue 49,660 66,411 (16,751) (25)% Gross (loss) profit (24,191) 994 (25,185) (2,534)% Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 11,126 12,406 (1,280) (10)% Research and development 14,136 13,444 692 5% General and administrative 18,560 17,797 763 4% Total operating expenses 43,822 43,647 175 % Loss from operations (68,013) (42,653) (25,360) 59% Other expense, net: Interest expense, net (4,707) (1,777) (2,930) 165% Other income (expense), net 566 (439) 1,005 (229)% Total other expense, net (4,141) (2,216) (1,925) 87% Loss before (provision for) benefit from income taxes (72,154) (44,869) (27,285) 61% (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (153) 91 (244) (268)% Net loss $ (72,307) $ (44,778) $ (27,529) 61% *Percentage is not meaningful Revenue Revenue decreased by $41.9 million, or 62%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was driven by a $42.1 million decrease in hardware revenue primarily due to variable consideration adjustments of $33.1 million related to parent company guarantees as discussed in Note 3 Revenue, and $9.0 million as a result of fewer hardware deliveries. Services and other revenue increased by $0.2 million primarily due to an increase in solar subscription services revenue from existing and new customers. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $16.8 million, or 25%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in cost of hardware revenue of $15.2 million due to a reduction in cost of materials as a result of improved lithium prices. Cost of services and other revenue also decreased by $1.5 million primarily due to providing services at reduced costs. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense decreased by $1.3 million, or 10%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due to a decrease of $1.3 million in professional services and office-related expenses. 32 Research and Development Research and development expense increased by $0.7 million, or 5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to an increase of $0.7 million in personnel related expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense increased by $0.8 million, or 4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $1.7 million in personnel related expenses, and an increase of $0.5 million in professional services and other expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $1.4 million in additional office-related expenses. Other Expense, Net Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net increased by $2.9 million, or 165%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $2.4 million in interest on our convertible notes, and the accretion of the discount on short-term investments of $0.7 million, partially offset by a decrease of $0.2 million in interest on financing obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net increased by $1.0 million, or 229%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to the prior years realized loss of $1.5 million on short-term investments, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in accrued interest income from short-term investments, a $0.2 million decrease due to the reversal of previously recognized accretion expense on assets, and a $0.1 million decrease in income from equity investments. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.2 million primarily as a result of state income tax expense. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded a $0.1 million benefit from income taxes as a result of the partial release of our deferred tax asset valuation due to an acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of its business operations, including working capital needs, debt service, acquisitions, contractual obligations and other commitments. We assess liquidity in terms of our cash flows from operations and their sufficiency to fund our operating and investing activities. To meet our payment service obligations, we must have sufficient liquid assets and be able to move funds on a timely basis. Significant factors in the management of liquidity are funds generated from operations, levels of accounts receivable and accounts payable and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $112.8 million, which were held for working capital purposes and for investment growth opportunities. As of March 31, 2024, we had net accounts receivable of $239.9 million and our working capital, which we define as current assets less current liabilities, was $168.9 million. We believe that our cash position is sufficient to meet our capital and liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our business prospects are subject to risks, expenses, and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of commercial operations. The attainment of profitable operations is dependent upon future events, including obtaining adequate financing to complete our development activities, obtaining adequate supplier relationships, building our customer base, successfully executing our business and marketing strategy and hiring appropriate personnel. Failure to generate sufficient revenues, achieve planned gross margins and operating profitability, control operating costs, or secure additional funding may require us to modify, delay, or abandon some of our planned future expansion or development, or to otherwise enact operating cost reductions available to management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In the future, we may be required to obtain additional equity or debt financing in order to support our continued capital expenditures and operations, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional 33 capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in new technologies, this could reduce our ability to compete successfully and harm our business, growth and results of operations. Our long-term liquidity requirements are linked primarily to the continued extension of the Athena platform and supporting applications, including Athena PowerTrack and the use of our balance sheet to improve the terms and conditions associated with the purchase of energy storage systems from our hardware vendors. While we have plans to potentially expand our geographical footprint beyond our current partnerships and enter into joint ventures, those are not required initiatives to achieve our plans. Financing Obligations We have entered into arrangements wherein we finance the cost of energy storage systems via special purpose entities (SPEs) we establish with outside investors. These SPEs are not consolidated into our financial statements, but are accounted for as equity method investments. The investors provide us upfront payments through the SPEs. Under these arrangements, the payment by the SPEs to us is accounted for as a borrowing by recording the proceeds received as a financing obligation. The financing obligation is repaid with the future customer payments and incentives received. A portion of the amounts paid to the SPE is allocated to interest expense using the effective interest rate method. Furthermore, we continue to account for the revenues from customer arrangements and incentives and all associated costs despite such systems being legally sold to the SPEs due to our significant continuing involvement in the operations of the energy storage systems. The total financing obligation as of March 31, 2024 was $64.6 million, of which $15.4 million was classified as a current liability. 2028 Green Convertible Senior Notes On November 22, 2021, we sold to Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Barclays Capital Inc, as initial purchasers (the 2021 Initial Purchasers), and the 2021 Initial Purchasers purchased from us, $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2028 Convertible Notes, pursuant to a purchase agreement dated as of November 17, 2021, by and between us and the 2021 Initial Purchasers. Our net proceeds from this offering were approximately $445.7 million, after deducting the 2021 Initial Purchasers discounts and commissions and the estimated offering expenses payable by us. The 2028 Convertible Notes will accrue interest payable semi-annually in arrears and will mature on December 1, 2028, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. Upon conversion, we may choose to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. The 2028 Convertible Notes are redeemable for cash at our option at any time given certain conditions. Refer to Note 8 Convertible Notes, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report for additional details regarding this transaction. On November 17, 2021, in connection with the pricing of the 2028 Convertible Notes, and on November 19, 2021, in connection with the exercise in full by the 2021 Initial Purchasers of their option to purchase additional 2028 Convertible Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain of the 2021 Initial Purchasers of the 2028 Convertible Notes to minimize the potential dilution to our common stockholders upon conversion of the 2028 Convertible Notes. We used approximately $66.7 million of the net proceeds from the 2028 Convertible Notes to pay the cost of the capped call transactions described above. We intend to allocate an amount equivalent to the net proceeds from this offering to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, our existing or new eligible green expenditures, including investments related to creating a more resilient clean energy system, optimized software capabilities for energy systems, and reducing waste through operations. On April 3, 2023, we used approximately $99.8 million of the net proceeds from the issuance of the 4.25% Green Convertible Senior Notes due 2030 (2030 Convertible Notes) to purchase and surrender for cancellation approximately $163.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2028 Convertible Notes. See Note 8 Convertible Notes, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report for additional details regarding this transaction. 2030 Convertible Notes On April 3, 2023, we issued $240.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2030 Convertible Notes in a private placement offering to qualified institutional buyers (the 2023 Initial Purchasers) pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2030 Convertible Notes are senior, unsecured obligations of the Company and bear interest at a rate of 4.25% per year, payable in cash semi-annually in arrears in April and October of each year, beginning in October 1, 2023. The 2030 Convertible Notes will mature on April 1, 2030, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. Upon conversion, we may choose to pay or deliver cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. The 2030 Convertible Notes are redeemable for cash at our option at any time given certain conditions. See Note 8 Convertible Notes, of the Notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Report, for additional details regarding this transaction. 34 Our net proceeds from this offering were approximately $232.4 million, after deducting for $7.6 million of debt issuance costs primarily consisting of underwriters, advisory, legal, and accounting fees. We used approximately $99.8 million of the net proceeds to purchase and surrender for cancellation approximately $163.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2028 Convertible Notes. On March 29, 2023 and March 31, 2023, in connection with the pricing of the 2030 Convertible Notes, and on April 3, 2023, in connection with the exercise in full by the 2023 Initial Purchasers of their option to purchase additional 2030 Convertible Notes, we entered into Capped Calls (the 2030 Capped Calls) with certain counterparties. We used $27.8 million of the net proceeds from the 2030 Convertible Notes to pay the cost of the 2030 Capped Calls. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (621) $ (35,821) Net cash provided by investing activities 4,675 67,831 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 3,142 (2,156) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 233 126 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 7,429 $ 29,980 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $0.6 million, primarily due to our net loss of $72.3 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $19.7 million and net cash inflow of $52.0 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $10.8 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.4 million related to debt issuance costs, stock-based compensation expense of $8.4 million, non-cash lease expense of $0.8 million, and other non-cash items of $0.3 million, partially offset by provision for accounts receivable allowance of $1.0 million. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable of $63.9 million partially from a $33.1 million variable consideration adjustment, a decrease in inventory of $2.2 million, a decrease in deferred costs with suppliers of $0.4 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $1.7 million, and an increase in deferred revenue of $2.7 million, partially offset by an increase in other assets of $1.2 million, an increase in contract origination costs of $0.4 million, an increase in project assets of $0.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $16.3 million, and a decrease in lease liabilities of $0.8 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $35.8 million, primarily due to our net loss of $44.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $21.2 million and net cash outflow of $12.3 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $11.1 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.4 million, related to debt issuance costs, stock-based compensation expense of $7.2 million, impairment of energy storage systems of $0.9 million, non-cash lease expense of $0.7 million, provision for accounts receivable allowance of $0.5 million, and net recognized loss on investments of $1.6 million, partially offset by net accretion of the discount on investments of $0.7 million and an income tax benefit of $0.3 million. The net cash outflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable of $10.1 million, an increase in inventory of $34.9 million, an increase in contract origination costs of $0.8 million, an increase in project assets of $1.4 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $31.7 million, and a decrease in lease liabilities of $0.6 million, offset by a decrease in deferred costs with suppliers of $28.2 million, a decrease in other assets of $0.3 million, for future hardware orders, an increase in accounts payable of $28.8 million due to timing of payments, and an increase in deferred revenue of $9.9 million. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $4.7 million, and primarily consisted of $8.3 million in proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale investments, partially offset by $0.1 million in purchases of energy storage systems, $3.5 million in capital expenditures on internally-developed software, and $0.1 million in purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities was $67.8 million, and primarily consisted of $1.8 million used for an acquisition, net of cash acquired, $75.0 million in net sales of available-for-sale investments, $1.6 million in purchases of energy systems, $3.6 million in capital expenditures on internally-developed software, and $0.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. 35 Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by financing activities was $3.1 million, and consisted of proceeds from equity transactions to be remitted to tax authorities of $5.2 million offset by the repayment of financing obligations of $2.1 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $2.2 million, and primarily consisted of repayment of financing obligations of $2.1 million, and a redemption of non-controlling interests of $0.1 million and a repayment of notes payable of $0.1 million, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $0.1 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2024, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, or unconsolidated VIEs that either have, or would reasonably be expected to have, a current or future material adverse effect on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates is presented in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, and there have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates during the threemonths ended March 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements As of March 31, 2024, there have been no material changes to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023.