Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward Looking Statements Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Risk Factors as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a pre-clinical medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. Microbot is primarily focused on leveraging its medical-robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Microbots current technological platforms, LIBERTY , One & Done TM , NovaCross, ViRob TM and TipCAT TM , and, are comprised of proprietary innovative technologies. Utilizing the LIBERTY and One & Done TM platforms, Microbot is developing the first ever fully disposable robotic system for various endovascular interventional procedures. In addition, the Company is focused on the development of a Multi Generation Pipeline Portfolio utilizing all of its proprietary technologies. Microbot has a patent portfolio of 58 issued/allowed patents and 51 patent applications pending worldwide, of which 6 issued/allowed patents and 34 patent applications relate to the LIBERTY device. 39 Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries and benefits, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting, legal services, and insurance expenses. Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses will increase over the long-term, even if a period-to-period comparison may show a decrease, as it expands its operating activities, maintains compliance with exchange listing and SEC requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with ASC Topic 450 Contingencies . A provision is recorded when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters to determine if any adjustments are required. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. 40 A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Change Research and development expenses $ (7,736 ) $ (6,153 ) $ (1,583 ) General and administrative expenses (5,545 ) (5,204 ) (341 ) Financing income, net 118 44 74 Capital loss (5 ) - (5 ) Research and Development Expenses . Microbots research and development expenses were approximately $7,736,000 for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to approximately $6,153,000 for the same period in 2021. The increase in research and development expenses of approximately $1,583,000 in 2022 as compared to 2021 was primarily due to increased salaries and recruitment of employees, professional services and material expenses relating to the LIBERTY project, minimally offset by savings resulting from the suspension of our SCS research program. Microbot expects its research and development expenses to continue to increase over time as Microbot advances its development programs and begins pre-clinical and preparations for clinical trials for the LIBERTY. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses were approximately $5,545,000 for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to approximately $5,204,000 for the same period in 2021. The increase in general and administrative expenses of approximately $341,000 in 2022 as compared to 2021 was primarily due to increased salaries, share-based compensation, and travel of $777,000, partially offset by a decrease of $436,000 in government fees and professional services. Microbot believes its general and administrative expenses may increase over time as it advances its programs, requiring additional investments in headcount, facilities and other general and administrative operating activities to support its growth, and as it continues to incur expenses associated with public-company compliance. Financing Income . Financing income was approximately $118,000 for the year ended December 31, 2022, consisting of, income from interest, net totaling $54,000 and an exchange rate gain of $64,000, compared to approximately $44,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021, which consisted mainly of the reversal of $131,000 of other liability stemming from our 2016 merger with StemCells, offset by exchange rate expenses of $87,000. Capital loss was approximately $5,000 for the year ended December 31, 2022, relating to assets disposal related to SCS suspension, compared to $0 of capital loss for the year ended December 31, 2021. 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $6,745,000 and $13,895,000, respectively, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts of its product candidates, hires additional staff, including clinical, scientific, operational, financial and management personnel, and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through December 31, 2022, Microbot has raised net cash proceeds of approximately $59,094,000, and incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $68,761,000. Microbot returned $3,375,000 (before interest) of such proceeds to an investor as a result of an adverse outcome in a litigation that concluded in the first quarter of 2020 and is still subject to an additional lawsuit seeking the return of an additional $6,750,000 of such proceeds. This litigation is in its discovery stages, and we cannot project what the eventual outcome will be, though management is vigorously defending its position that no return of capital is warranted. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through December 31, 2022 in the total amount of approximately $1,500,000 and, in return, Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-3.5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grant. The grant is linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of USD LIBOR. Under the terms of the grant and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grant, if the SCS project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. In addition, in February 2023, Microbot Israel was awarded an NIS 300,000 grant from Israels Ministry of Economy to encourage the Companys marketing activities and enhance the commercialization of the LIBERTY Robotic System in the US market, within the scope of its Smart Money program. To date, we have not generated revenues from our operations. As of December 31, 2022, we had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $8,202,000, excluding encumbered cash, which management believes is sufficient to fund our operations for less than four months from the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, in the event we are unsuccessful in our current litigation discussed above, pursuant to which certain investors are seeking the return of $6,750,000 in proceeds we received from them in a 2017 stock offering, we will not have funds to continue our operation. As a result of the foregoing and our current cash position, these conditions raise substantial doubt about Microbots ability to continue as a going concern beyond approximately the next 4 months, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, expand our business and develop our planned products. Microbot plans to continue to fund its research and development and other operating expenses, other development activities relating to additional product candidates, and the associated losses from operations, through its existing cash and possibly additional grants. Microbot intends to also raise capital through future issuances of debt and/or equity securities including registered offerings under its existing Registration Statement on Form S-3 for up to $75 million of securities, which it may draw down from time to time subject to limitations on our use of Registration Statements on Form S-3 as a result of our public float. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Microbot is not able to secure adequate additional working capital when it becomes needed, it may be required to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned research programs. Any of these actions could materially harm Microbots business. 42 Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods presented (in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net cash flows from operating activities $ (11,549 ) $ (9,354 ) Net cash flows from investing activities (3,836 ) 3,200 Net cash flows from financing activities 4,324 - Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (11,061 ) $ (6,154 ) Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was approximately $11,549,000, compared to $9,354,000 in 2021. The increase was primarily from higher net losses in 2022, mostly related to increase in research and development relating to LIBERTY. Net cash flows from investing activities increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily from the net purchases of marketable securities in 2022. Net cash flows from financing activities increased in 2022 to approximately $4,324,000 due to the issuance of common stock and warrants to an institutional investor in October 2022. The Company did not raise capital in 2021.