Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-Looking Statements Certain information contained in this MD&A includes forward-looking statements. Statements which are not historical reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities and are based upon information currently available to us and our management and their interpretation of what is believed to be significant factors affecting our existing and proposed business, including many assumptions regarding future events. Actual results, performance, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, prospects and opportunities could differ materially and perhaps substantially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those risks described in detail in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Risk Factors as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements, which involve assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies, and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words may, should, would, will, could, scheduled, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, seek, or project or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. 34 In light of these risks and uncertainties, and especially given the nature of our existing and proposed business, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will in fact occur. Potential investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, there is no undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason. Overview Microbot is a clinical-stage medical device company specializing in the research, design and development of next generation robotic endoluminal surgery devices targeting the minimally invasive surgery space. We are primarily focused on leveraging our robotic technologies with the goal of redefining surgical robotics while improving surgical outcomes for patients. Using our LIBERTY technological platform, we are developing the first ever fully disposable robot for various endovascular interventional procedures. The LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System is designed to maneuver guidewires and over-the-wire devices (such as microcatheters) within the bodys vasculature. It is intended for the remote delivery and manipulation of guidewires and catheters, and remote manipulation of guide catheters to facilitate navigation to anatomical targets in the peripheral vasculature. It is designed to eliminate the need for extensive capital equipment requiring dedicated Cath-lab rooms as well as dedicated staff. Financial Operations Overview Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and related expenses and overhead for Microbots research, development and engineering personnel, prototype materials and research studies, obtaining and maintaining Microbots patent portfolio, net of government grants and NRE payments. Microbot expenses its research and development costs as incurred. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the costs associated with management salaries, benefits and related expenses, professional fees for accounting, auditing, consulting, legal services, and insurance expenses, net of insurance loss recoveries. Microbot expects that its general and administrative expenses will increase over the long-term, as it expands its operating activities, maintains compliance with exchange listing and SEC requirements. Microbot expects these potential increases will likely include management costs, legal fees, accounting fees, directors and officers liability insurance premiums and expenses associated with investor relations. Income Taxes Microbot has incurred net losses and has not recorded any income tax benefits for the losses. It is still in its development stage and has not yet generated revenues, therefore, it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will not be available for the tax losses to be fully utilized in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of Microbots financial condition and results of operations are based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires Microbot to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Microbot bases its estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 35 While Microbots significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to its consolidated financial statements, Microbot believes the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Contingencies Management records and discloses legal contingencies in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 450 Contingencies. A provision is recorded when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company monitors the stage of progress of its litigation matters to determine if any adjustments are required. Common Stock Warrants The Company accounts for warrants issued to investors as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments, based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and the applicable authoritative guidance in FASB ASC 480 and FASB ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, or meet all of the requirements for equity classification under FASB ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to the Companys own shares of common stock and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of the Companys control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the warrants are outstanding. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company measures the fair value of certain of its financial instruments on a recurring basis. A fair value hierarchy is used to rank the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories: Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 - Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices in the markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth the key components of Microbots results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change Research and development expenses, net $ (6,630 ) $ (5,724 ) $ (906 ) General and administrative expenses, net (4,995 ) (4,131 ) (864 ) Financing income, net 182 228 (46 ) Loss on legal settlement, net - (1,111 ) 1,111 Research and Development Expenses, net. The increase in research and development expenses of approximately $0.9 million in 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily due to increases in headcount, employees salaries and bonuses. Additionally, there were increased regulatory expenses in 2024 due to the Investigational Device Exemption and 510K submission, as well as higher costs associated with clinical studies conducted in 2024 compared to 2023. 36 General and Administrative Expenses, net. The increase in general and administrative expenses of approximately $0.9 million in 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily due to certain cost reduction plans targeting employee salaries and bonuses as well as board of director fees that were implemented in 2023 and later relaxed in 2024. Financing Income, net. The decrease in Finance income in 2024 as compared to 2023 is due to a decrease in market gains offset by increase in interest income and foreign exchange changes. Loss on legal settlement, net. Loss on legal settlement, net for the year ended December 31, 2023 is related to the issuance of restricted shares of our common stock to settle the Lawsuit pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, Microbot has not generated revenues from operations. Microbot has incurred losses since inception and negative cash flows from operating activities for all periods presented. As of December 31, 2024, Microbot had a net working capital of approximately $3.4 million, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. This compares to net working capital of approximately $4.1 million as of December 31, 2023. This does not include any of the approximately $30.6 million we have raised subsequent to December 31, 2024, discussed further below. Microbot anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as it continues research and development efforts and ramps up commercialization of its primary product candidate and continues to incur costs associated with being a public company. Microbot has funded its operations through the issuance of capital stock, grants from the Israeli Innovation Authority, and convertible debt. Since inception (November 2010) through December 31, 2024, Microbot has raised cash proceeds of approximately $74.9 million. Since inception (November 2010) through December 31, 2024, Microbot incurred a total cumulative loss of approximately $90.9 million. Since January 1, 2025, we have raised the following amounts: An aggregate of approximately $1.1 million in January 2025, before fees and expenses of $35,179, through our ATM Agreement; In January 2025, an aggregate of approximately $15.6 million in gross proceeds, before fees and expenses of approximately $1.4 million, from institutional investors; In January 2025, approximately $916,000 in gross proceeds from the exercise of outstanding preferred investment options, before fees and expenses of $64,164; and In February 2025, an aggregate of approximately $13.0 million in gross proceeds, before fees and expenses of approximately $1.2 million, from institutional investors. Microbot Israel obtained from the Israeli Innovation Authority (IIA) grants for participation in research and development for the years 2013 through December 31, 2024 in the total amount of approximately $1.9 million. This amount includes amounts received of approximately $378,000, which are a portion of an additional grant from the IIA in the amount of approximately NIS 1.6 million (approximately $447,000) approved on June 1, 2023, to further finance the development of the manufacturing process of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. On January 4, 2018, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with CardioSert to acquire certain of its patent-protected technology as well as to assume CardioSerts grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000. During the 3rd quarter of 2024, Microbot Israel transferred such technology back to CardioSert, for nominal consideration and, as a result, Microbot Israels liability to repay CardioSerts IIA grants in the aggregate amount of approximately $530,000 was also transferred back to CardioSert. On October 6, 2022, Microbot Israel entered into an agreement with Nitiloop Ltd. to acquire substantially all of its assets. Nitiloop received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of approximately $925,000 and Microbot Israel took over the liability to repay such grants. 37 Microbot Israel is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3%-5% of its future sales up to the amount of the grants. The grants are linked to the exchange rate of the dollar to the New Israeli Shekel and bears interest at an annual rate of SOFR, a benchmark interest rate which replaced LIBOR. Under the terms of the grants and applicable law, Microbot is restricted from transferring any technologies, know-how, manufacturing or manufacturing rights developed using the grant outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Israel Innovation Authority. Microbot has no obligation to repay the grants, if the applicable project fails, is unsuccessful or aborted before any sales are generated; accordingly, as we have discontinued the CardioSert program and are returning the technology to CardioSert, we do not expect to repay, or have the obligation to repay, the grants relating to that technology. The financial risk is assumed completely by the IIA. On March 2, 2023, the Company announced that it received approval for a grant from the Ministry of Economy in the amount of approximately NIS 300,000, which based on an exchange rate on such date of NIS 1.00 = $0.2923, would be approximately $88,000, to further finance the marketing activities of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System in the U.S. market. In relation to the Ministry of Economy grant, the Company is obligated to pay royalties amounting to 3% of future sales of the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System up to the grant amount plus interest. To the extent available, Microbot intends to continue to raise capital through future public and private issuances of debt and/or equity securities, to fund its commercial activities and working capital and general business purposes. The capital raises from issuances of convertible debt and equity securities could result in additional dilution to Microbots shareholders. In addition, to the extent Microbot determines to incur additional indebtedness, Microbots incurrence of additional debt could result in debt service obligations and operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. Microbot can provide no assurance that financing will be available in the amounts it needs, at the times it needs it or on terms acceptable to it, if at all, and will need additional funds to continue the commercialization process for the LIBERTY Endovascular Robotic Surgical System. As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management believes we have sufficient funds for our operations for in excess of one year. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of the net cash flow activity for each of the periods presented (in thousands): For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash flows used in operating activities $ (8,827 ) $ (8,533 ) Net cash flows provided by investing activities 1,537 1,973 Net cash flows provided by financing activities 7,936 6,558 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 646 $ (2 ) The increase in net cash flows used in operating activities was primarily from an increase in research and development expenses and general and administration expenses discussed above. The decrease of net cash flows provided by investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities in 2024 compared to 2023. The increase in net cash flows provided by financing activities was due to increased issuances of common stock and warrants in 2024 compared to 2023.