ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2023 Annual Report) for the year ended July 29, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 20, 2023. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. The fiscal year ending August 3, 2024 consists of 53 weeks, and the fiscal year ended July 29, 2023 consisted of 52 weeks. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans, and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Business Overview Since our founding in 2011, we have helped millions of women, men, and kids discover and buy what they love through personalized shipments of apparel, shoes, and accessories. Currently, clients can engage with us in one of two ways that, combined, form an ecosystem of personalized experiences across styling, shopping, and inspiration: (1) by receiving a personalized shipment of items informed by our algorithms and sent by a Stitch Fix stylist (a Fix); or (2) by purchasing directly from our website or mobile app based on a personalized assortment of outfit and item recommendations (Freestyle). For a Fix, clients can choose to schedule automatic shipments or order on demand after they fill out a style profile on our website or mobile app. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any. Freestyle utilizes our algorithms to recommend a personalized assortment of outfits and items that will update throughout the day and will continue to evolve as we learn more about the client. Discontinued Operations During the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we ceased operations of our UK business and the accounting requirements for reporting the UK business as a discontinued operation were met. Accordingly, any discussion of historical information in Managements Discussion and Analysis below reflect the results of the UK business as a discontinued operation, and, amounts and disclosures below relate to the Company's continuing operations for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted. Refer to Note 12, Discontinued Operations within the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for further details. Financial Overview For the three months ended October 28, 2023, we reported $364.8 million in net revenue, representing a year-over-year decline of 17.8%, compared to the three months ended October 29, 2022. As of October 28, 2023 and October 29, 2022, we had 2,989,000 and 3,504,000 active clients, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 14.7%. During the three months ended October 28, 2023, we experienced a decline in net revenue year-over-year primarily due to our challenges in acquiring and retaining clients. We expect these challenges in acquiring and retaining active clients to continue having a negative compounding effect on net revenue throughout fiscal 2024. In addition, we are navigating the uncertainties presented by the current macroeconomic environment and remain focused on retaining current clients, improving the conversion of new clients, and enhancing our overall client experience for new and existing clients. 20 Net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended October 28, 2023 was $26.2 million, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $48.2 million for the three months ended October 29, 2022. For more information on the components of net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended October 28, 2023, refer to the section titled Results of Operations below. Restructuring During the three months ended October 28, 2023, in furtherance of and as an expansion of the restructuring plan announced in June 2022 (the 2022 Restructuring Plan), we recorded $8.0 million of additional restructuring charges, primarily related to the intended closures of our fulfillment centers in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania and Dallas, Texas. Related to the 2022 Restructuring Plan, we estimate we will incur between $1 million and $3 million of additional cash restructuring charges in the remainder of fiscal 2024. We expect these expenses will be incurred over the next two fiscal quarters, with substantially all of the cash payments to be completed by the end of the third fiscal quarter ending April 27, 2024. Refer to Note 11, Restructuring within the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for further details of restructuring actions taken. We are continuing to evaluate other fixed and variable operating costs, including further rationalizing our real estate footprint and continuing to optimize and be disciplined in our marketing strategy to better position ourselves for profitability. However, our future results of operations will depend on our ability to successfully navigate current business challenges and the overall macroeconomic environment. Key Financial and Operating Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations (Adjusted EBITDA) is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between continuing operations of companies. We believe free cash flow from continuing operations (Free Cash Flow) is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from continuing operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: Adjusted EBITDA excludes interest income and net other (income) expense as these items are not components of our core business; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our provision for income taxes, which may increase or decrease cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; Adjusted EBITDA excludes the non-cash expense of stock-based compensation, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, an important part of how we attract and retain our employees and a significant recurring expense in our business; Adjusted EBITDA excludes costs incurred related to discrete restructuring plans and other one-time costs attributable to our continuing operations that are fundamentally different in strategic nature and frequency from ongoing initiatives. We believe exclusion of these items facilitates a more consistent comparison of operating performance over time, however these costs do include cash outflows; and Free Cash Flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. 21 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss from continuing operations excluding interest income, net other (income) expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and restructuring and other one-time costs related to our continuing operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss from continuing operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Net loss from continuing operations $ (26,171) $ (48,152) Add (deduct): Interest income (2,248) (748) Other (income) expense, net (411) 177 Provision for income taxes 169 187 Depreciation and amortization (1) 9,439 9,529 Stock-based compensation expense 19,902 31,129 Restructuring and other one-time costs (2) 7,950 6,155 Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,630 $ (1,723) (1) For the three months ended October 28, 2023, depreciation and amortization excluded $4.3 million reflected in Restructuring and other one-time costs. (2) For the three months ended October 28, 2023, restructuring charges were $8.0 million described in Note 11, Restructuring in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1. Financial Statements. For the three months ended October 29, 2022, restructuring charges were $0.9 million and other one-time costs were $5.3 million in retention bonuses for continuing employees. Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations, reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flows from investing activities from continuing operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to Free Cash Flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Free Cash Flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations $ 20,559 $ (1,574) Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment from continuing operations (3,653) (5,888) Free Cash Flow $ 16,906 $ (7,462) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities from continuing operations $ 9,188 $ (2,001) Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations $ (4,108) $ (3,781) Operating Metrics (in thousands) October 28, 2023 July 29, 2023 April 29, 2023 January 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Active clients 2,989 3,121 3,288 3,377 3,504 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix or was shipped an item via Freestyle in the preceding 52 weeks, measured as of the last day of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Womens, Mens, or Kids account as a client, even if they share the same household. We had 2,989,000 and 3,504,000 active clients as of October 28, 2023 and October 29, 2022, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 14.7%. The decline in active clients is due to fewer new client additions, which we largely attribute to client conversion challenges and macroeconomic factors. The decline in active clients was partially offset by higher re-engagement of clients who were previously considered inactive. 22 Net Revenue per Active Client We believe that net revenue per active client is an indicator of client engagement and satisfaction. We calculate net revenue per active client based on net revenue over the preceding four fiscal quarters divided by the number of active clients, measured as of the last day of the period. Net revenue per active client was $506 and $541 as of October 28, 2023, and October 29, 2022, respectively, or a decline of 6.5% year over year. Factors Affecting Our Performance Macroeconomic Environment Our business and operating results are subject to national and global economic conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending. As the macroeconomic environment is experiencing inflation, rising interest rates, recessionary concerns, tightening labor markets, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment, we have seen and expect to continue to see negative impacts on consumer confidence and consumer demand. As this challenging and uncertain economic environment continues, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business. Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at the time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage and retain them. Our marketing strategy aims to preserve liquidity and achieve profitability, while simultaneously attracting long-term customers to fuel a return to growth. We utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our marketing costs are largely composed of advertising, client referrals, and public relations expenses. At any given time, our advertising efforts may include social media marketing, keyword search campaigns, affiliate programs, partnerships, campaigns with celebrities and influencers, display advertising, television, radio, video, content, direct mail, email, mobile push communications, SMS, and search engine optimization. Our marketing expenses have varied from period to period and we expect this trend to continue. In fiscal 2024, we expect our marketing spend as a percentage of revenue to be relatively consistent with fiscal 2023. Marketing expense is recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The largest component of our marketing expense is advertising, which was $29.7 million and $40.6 million for the three months ended October 28, 2023 and October 29, 2022, respectively. Beginning in the second fiscal quarter of 2023, we began including costs for influencer campaigns in our advertising expense, and advertising expense for the three months ended October 29, 2022 reflects the inclusion of these costs. Operations and Infrastructure We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to make targeted investments in technology and product, and we plan to prioritize investments with near-term positive returns. In the second quarter of fiscal 2023, we decided to close our Salt Lake City fulfillment center in order to optimize network capacity. In June 2023, we announced the intended closures of our fulfillment centers in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania and Dallas, Texas. Refer to Note 11, Restructuring within the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for further details. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across categories, brands, product types, and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Owned Private Label Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry, and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. Historically, changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin; however, categories, brands, product types, and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Owned Private Label Brands have 23 generally contributed higher margins than our third-party brands, which have generally contributed lower margins. We continue to evolve our merchandise mix to improve the client experience and attract new active clients. Shifts in merchandise mix will result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise through our Fix and Freestyle offerings. With our Fix offering, we charge a nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased. We offer Style Pass to provide select U.S. clients with an alternative to paying a styling fee per Fix. Style Pass clients pay a nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. We deduct discounts, sales tax, and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout this Quarterly Report. We also recognize revenue resulting from estimated breakage income on gift cards. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for inbound freight and shipping to and from clients, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees, and packaging materials costs, offset by the recoverable cost of merchandise estimated to be returned. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense, for our employees including our stylists, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, marketing, client experience, and corporate personnel. SG&A also includes marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. As a result of our restructuring and cost reduction actions throughout fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, we expect SG&A in fiscal 2024 to continue to decrease as compared to fiscal 2023. Our classification of certain components within SG&A may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes from continuing operations consists of an estimate of federal and state income taxes based on enacted federal, and state tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, and changes in the valuation of our net federal and state deferred tax assets. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our financial results from continuing operations: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) October 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Change Revenue, net $ 364,785 $ 443,741 (17.8) % Cost of goods sold 205,682 256,431 (19.8) % Gross profit 159,103 187,310 (15.1) % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 187,764 235,846 (20.4) % Operating loss (28,661) (48,536) (41.0) % Interest income 2,248 748 200.5 % Other income (expense), net 411 (177) * Loss before income taxes (26,002) (47,965) (45.8) % Provision for income taxes 169 187 (9.6) % Net loss from continuing operations $ (26,171) $ (48,152) (45.7) % * Not meaningful 24 The components of our results from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue were as follows: For the Three Months Ended October 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 56.4 % 57.8 % Gross margin 43.6 % 42.2 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 51.5 % 53.2 % Operating loss (7.9) % (10.9) % Interest income 0.6 % 0.2 % Other income (expense), net 0.1 % % Loss before income taxes (7.1) % (10.8) % Provision for income taxes 0.1 % % Net loss from continuing operations (7.2) % (10.9) % Note: Due to rounding, percentages in this table may not sum to totals. Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue decreased by $79.0 million, or 17.8% during the three months ended October 28, 2023, compared to the three months ended October 29, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a 14.7% decline in active clients from October 29, 2022 to October 28, 2023, which led to a decrease in sales of merchandise. Additionally, we observed clients purchasing less frequently in recent periods, which we expect to continue given the continued macroeconomic uncertainty. Gross margin for the three months ended October 28, 2023, increased by 140 basis points, compared to the same period last year, which was primarily driven by improved inventory composition, as we better aligned our inventory with current demand, resulting in lower inventory write-offs as a percentage of revenue. Gross margin was also positively impacted by improved transportation leverage. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses SG&A decreased by $48.1 million for the three months ended October 28, 2023, compared to the three months ended October 29, 2022. The decrease was primarily related to lower compensation and benefits expense including lower stock-based compensation expense, largely driven by our restructuring plans. SG&A also decreased due to our decision to reduce advertising spend. SG&A as a percentage of revenue decreased to 51.5% for the three months ended October 28, 2023, compared with 53.2% for the three months ended October 29, 2022. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended October 28, 2023, compared with the same period last year, was primarily driven by lower compensation and benefits expense including stock-based compensation expense, which was largely attributable to our restructuring actions, as SG&A expense decreased more than revenue in the period. To a lesser extent, reductions in advertising spend as a percentage of revenue also contributed to the decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue. These reductions were partially offset by the deleverage of our fixed operating costs, which increased as a percentage of revenue as compared to the same period last year. 25 Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes $ (26,002) $ (47,965) Provision for income taxes 169 187 Effective tax rate (0.7) % (0.4) % Our continuing operations are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 28, 2023 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. The tax provision for the three months ended October 28, 2023 is primarily comprised of state taxes. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 29, 2022 differed from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. The tax provision for the three months ended October 29, 2022 is primarily comprised of state taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, investments, and cash flows from continuing operations. As of October 28, 2023, we had $256.9 million of cash and cash equivalents attributable to continuing operations, which included $28.6 million held outside the U.S. in the UK, and $5.4 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less. We will use our cash balances in the UK to settle the remaining liabilities attributable to our discontinued operations, and we plan to repatriate the remaining UK cash into the U.S. within 12 months of liquidating of the UK entity. This cash repatriation may be subject to taxes and other local statutory restrictions. Credit Agreement Prior to December 4, 2023, we were party to a $100.0 million amended and restated credit agreement, entered into June 2, 2021 and amended on July 29, 2022 (the Amended Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank, a division of First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company (successor by purchase to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as Receiver for Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A. (as successor of Silicon Valley Bank)), and other lenders. The Amended Credit Agreement included a letter of credit sub-facility of $30.0 million and a swingline sub-facility of up to $40.0 million. As of October 28, 2023, we did not have any borrowings outstanding on the revolving line of credit under the Amended Credit Agreement and we had $79.1 million in borrowing capacity as reduced by outstanding letters of credit. On December 4, 2023, we entered into a first lien credit agreement with Citibank, N.A., as agent and lender, which provides for a $50.0 million revolving credit facility maturing on December 4, 2026 (the 2023 Credit Facility). The 2023 Credit Facility includes a sub-facility that provides for the issuance of letters of credit in an amount of up to $30.0 million. Availability of the 2023 Credit Facility will be based upon a borrowing base formula and periodic borrowing base certifications valuing certain of our accounts receivable, credit card receivables, and inventory as reduced by certain reserves, if any. Our initial borrowing availability is $50.0 million. Upon entry into the 2023 Credit Facility, our existing Amended Credit Agreement was terminated. For information on the terms of the 2023 Credit Facility, refer to Note 5, Credit Agreement within the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Uses of Cash Our primary uses of cash include operating costs such as merchandise purchases, lease obligations, compensation and benefits, marketing, and other expenditures necessary to support our business. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and the borrowing available under our 2023 Credit Facility, if needed, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond. 26 Share Repurchases In January 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $150.0 million of our outstanding Class A common stock, with no expiration date (the 2022 Repurchase Program). We may repurchase shares from time to time through open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased in the future will be determined by the Company in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including price, trading volume, market conditions, and other general business conditions. Repurchases will be funded from the Companys existing cash and cash equivalents or future cash flow. The repurchase program may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time. During the three months ended October 28, 2023, the Company made no repurchases of Class A common stock. As of October 28, 2023, the Company had repurchased an aggregate 2,302,141 shares of Class A common stock for $30.0 million, and $120.0 million remained available under the 2022 Repurchase Program authorization. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated below: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 28, 2023 October 29, 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations $ 20,559 $ (1,574) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities from continuing operations 9,188 (2,001) Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations (4,108) (3,781) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 25,639 (7,356) Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities from Continuing Operations During the three months ended October 28, 2023, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $20.6 million, which consisted of a net loss from continuing operations of $26.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $36.8 million and a $9.9 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $19.9 million of stock-based compensation expense and $13.8 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $33.3 million increase in gross inventory balances, as we increased purchases in advance of the fall and winter season. This was largely offset by an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $42.2 million due to timing of inventory receipts and payments. During the three months ended October 29, 2022, cash used in by operating activities from continuing operations was $1.6 million, which consisted of a net loss from continuing operations of $48.2 million, offset by non-cash charges of $41.2 million and a change of $5.4 million in net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $31.1 million of stock-based compensation expense and $9.8 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a cash inflow of $26.6 million from income tax refunds, substantially offset by an increase of $21.8 million in gross inventory balances. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities from Continuing Operations During the three months ended October 28, 2023, cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $9.2 million. This was primarily due to the maturities of available-for-sale securities of $12.8 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $3.7 million. During the three months ended October 29, 2022, cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $2.0 million. This was primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $5.9 million, partially offset by sales of available-for-sale securities of $4.1 million. Cash Used in Financing Activities from Continuing Operations During the three months ended October 28, 2023, cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $4.1 million, primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units. During the three months ended October 29, 2022, cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $3.8 million, primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 27 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K.