ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2024 Annual Report) for the year ended August 3, 2024, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 25, 2024. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. The fiscal year ending August 2, 2025 (fiscal 2025) consists of 52 weeks, and the fiscal year ended August 3, 2024 (fiscal 2024) consisted of 53 weeks. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans, and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Business Overview In 2011, Stitch Fix introduced an innovative approach to shopping for clothing and accessories. We were inspired by the opportunity to create a client-first styling experience, offering an alternative to impersonal, time-consuming and inconvenient traditional shopping. Clients engage with us by (1) receiving a curated shipment of items informed by our algorithms and chosen by a Stitch Fix Stylist (a Fix); or (2) purchasing directly from our website or mobile app based on an individualized assortment of outfit and item recommendations (Freestyle). Clients choose to schedule regular shipments or order a Fix on demand. Then, after receiving a Fix, they can purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any. Discontinued Operations During the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we ceased operations of our UK business and the accounting requirements for reporting the UK business as a discontinued operation were met. Accordingly, any discussion of historical information in Managements Discussion and Analysis below reflects the results of the UK business as a discontinued operation, and amounts and disclosures below relate to the Company's continuing operations for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted. Refer to Note 12, Discontinued Operations within the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for further details. Financial Overview For the three months ended November 2, 2024, we reported $318.8 million in net revenue, representing a year-over-year decrease of 12.6%, compared to the three months ended October 28, 2023. As of November 2, 2024, and October 28, 2023, we had approximately 2,434,000 and 2,989,000 active clients, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 18.6%. During the three months ended November 2, 2024, we experienced a decline in net revenue year-over-year primarily due to our challenges in acquiring and retaining clients. We expect these challenges in acquiring and retaining active clients to continue having a negative compounding effect on net revenue throughout fiscal 2025. We remain focused on retaining current clients, improving the conversion of new clients, and enhancing our overall client experience for new and existing clients. Net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended November 2, 2024, was $6.3 million, compared to a net loss from continuing operations of $26.2 million for the three months ended October 28, 2023. 17 For more information on the components of net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended November 2, 2024, refer to the section titled Results of Operations below. Restructuring During the three months ended November 2, 2024, in furtherance of and as an expansion of the restructuring plan announced in June 2022 (the 2022 Restructuring Plan), we recorded $1.0 million of additional restructuring charges. Related to the 2022 Restructuring Plan, we estimate we will incur an immaterial amountof additional cash restructuring charges over the next fiscal quarter, with substantially all of the cash payments to be completed by the end of the next fiscal quarter. Refer to Note 11, Restructuring within the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for further details of restructuring actions taken. We are continuing to evaluate other fixed and variable operating costs, including further rationalizing our real estate footprint and continuing to optimize and be disciplined in our marketing strategy to better position ourselves for profitability. However, our future results of operations will depend on our ability to successfully navigate current business challenges and the overall macroeconomic environment. Key Financial and Operating Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations (Adjusted EBITDA) is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between continuing operations of companies. We believe free cash flow from continuing operations (Free Cash Flow) is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from continuing operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: Adjusted EBITDA excludes interest income and net other (income) expense as these items are not components of our core business; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our provision for income taxes, which may increase or decrease cash available to us; Adjusted EBITDA excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; Adjusted EBITDA excludes the non-cash expense of stock-based compensation, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, an important part of how we attract and retain our employees and a significant recurring expense in our business; Adjusted EBITDA excludes costs incurred related to discrete restructuring plans and other one-time costs attributable to our continuing operations that are fundamentally different in strategic nature and frequency from ongoing initiatives. We believe exclusion of these items facilitates a more consistent comparison of operating performance over time, however these costs do include cash outflows; and Free Cash Flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. 18 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss from continuing operations excluding interest income, net other (income) expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and restructuring and other one-time costs related to our continuing operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss from continuing operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2024 October 28, 2023 Net loss from continuing operations $ (6,263) $ (26,171) Add (deduct): Interest income (2,932) (2,248) Other (income) expense, net 72 (411) Provision for income taxes 157 169 Depreciation and amortization (1) 7,385 9,439 Stock-based compensation expense 12,650 19,902 Restructuring and other one-time costs (2) 2,425 7,950 Adjusted EBITDA $ 13,494 $ 8,630 (1) For the three months ended October 28, 2023, depreciation and amortization excluded $4.3 million reflected in Restructuring and other one-time costs. (2) Restructuring and other one-time costs include restructuring charges as described in Note 11, Restructuring in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1, and, for the three months ended November 2, 2024, also $1.4 million in one-time bonuses for certain continuing employees. Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations, reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flows from investing activities from continuing operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to Free Cash Flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2024 October 28, 2023 Free Cash Flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 14,268 $ 20,559 Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment from continuing operations (4,323) (3,653) Free Cash Flow $ 9,945 $ 16,906 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities from continuing operations $ (35,729) $ 9,188 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations $ (3,785) $ (4,108) Operating Metrics (in thousands) November 2, 2024 August 3, 2024 April 27, 2024 January 27, 2024 October 28, 2023 Active clients 2,434 2,508 2,633 2,805 2,989 Net Revenue per Active Client $ 531 $ 533 $ 525 $ 515 $ 506 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix or was shipped an item via Freestyle in the preceding 52 weeks, measured as of the last day of that period. Clients check out a Fix when they indicate what items they are keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Womens, Mens, or Kids account as a client, even if they share the same household. We had approximately 2,434,000 and 2,989,000 active clients as of November 2, 2024, and October 28, 2023, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 18.6%. The decline in active clients is due to dormant clients outpacing new client additions during the quarter, which we largely attribute to client conversion and retention challenges. 19 Net Revenue per Active Client We believe that net revenue per active client is an indicator of client engagement and satisfaction. We calculate net revenue per active client based on net revenue over the preceding four fiscal quarters divided by the number of active clients measured as of the last day of the period. Net revenue per active client was $531 and $506 as of November 2, 2024, and October 28, 2023, respectively, or an increase of 4.9% year over year. Factors Affecting Our Performance Macroeconomic Environment Our business and operating results are subject to national and global economic conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending. As the macroeconomic environment is experiencing inflation, recessionary concerns, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business. Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at the time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage and retain them. Our marketing strategy aims to preserve liquidity and achieve profitability, while simultaneously attracting long-term customers to fuel a return to growth. We utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our marketing costs are largely composed of advertising, client referrals, and public relations expenses. At any given time, our advertising efforts may include social media marketing, keyword search campaigns, affiliate programs, partnerships, campaigns with celebrities and influencers, display advertising, television, radio, video, content, direct mail, email, mobile push communications, SMS, and search engine optimization. Our marketing expenses have varied from period to period and we expect this trend to continue. Marketing expense is recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The largest component of our marketing expense is advertising, which was $30.0 million for the three months ended November 2, 2024, and $29.7 million for the three months ended and October 28, 2023. We will continue to be methodical about our approach when we are making advertising decisions, and may adjust our spending up or down based on performance. Operations and Infrastructure We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to make targeted investments in technology and product. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across categories, brands, product types, and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Owned Private Label Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry, and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. Historically, changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin; however, categories, brands, product types, and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Owned Private Label Brands have generally contributed higher margins than our third-party brands, which have generally contributed lower margins. We continue to evolve our merchandise mix to improve the client experience and attract new active clients. Shifts in merchandise mix will result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. 20 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise through our Fix and Freestyle offerings. With our Fix offering, we charge a nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased. We offer Style Pass to provide select U.S. clients with an alternative to paying a styling fee per Fix. Style Pass clients pay a nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. We deduct discounts, sales tax, and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout this Quarterly Report. We also recognize revenue resulting from estimated breakage income on gift cards. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for inbound freight and shipping to and from clients, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees, and packaging materials costs, offset by the recoverable cost of merchandise estimated to be returned. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense, for our employees including our stylists, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, marketing, client experience, and corporate personnel. SG&A also includes marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. As a result of our restructuring and cost reduction actions throughout fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, we expect SG&A in fiscal 2025 to continue to decrease as compared to fiscal 2024. Our classification of certain components within SG&A may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash, cash equivalents, and investments in available-for-sale securities. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes from continuing operations consists of an estimate of federal and state income taxes based on enacted federal, and state tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, and changes in the valuation of our net federal and state deferred tax assets. 21 Results of Operations The following table summarizes our financial results from continuing operations: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) November 2, 2024 October 28, 2023 Change Revenue, net $ 318,818 $ 364,785 (12.6) % Cost of goods sold 174,013 205,682 (15.4) % Gross profit 144,805 159,103 (9.0) % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 153,771 187,764 (18.1) % Operating loss (8,966) (28,661) (68.7) % Interest income 2,932 2,248 30.4 % Other income (expense), net (72) 411 (117.5) % Loss before income taxes (6,106) (26,002) (76.5) % Provision for income taxes 157 169 (7.1) % Net loss from continuing operations $ (6,263) $ (26,171) (76.1) % The components of our results from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue were as follows: For the Three Months Ended November 2, 2024 October 28, 2023 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 54.6 % 56.4 % Gross margin 45.4 % 43.6 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 48.2 % 51.5 % Operating loss (2.8) % (7.9) % Interest income 0.9 % 0.6 % Other income (expense), net % 0.1 % Loss before income taxes (1.9) % (7.1) % Provision for income taxes % 0.1 % Net loss from continuing operations (2.0) % (7.2) % Note: Due to rounding, percentages in this table may not sum to totals. Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue decreased by $46.0 million, or 12.6% during the three months ended November 2, 2024, compared to the three months ended October 28, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to an 18.6% decline in active clients from October 28, 2023, to November 2, 2024, which led to a decrease in sales of merchandise. Partially offsetting the revenue decline during the three months ended November 2, 2024, was an improvement in net revenue per active client, which was driven by an increase in the average order value due to higher average unit retail prices for Fixes. Gross margin for the three months ended November 2, 2024, increased by 180 basis points, compared to the prior year period. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by transportation leverage as our carrier mix yielded more favorable year-over-year rates and improved product margins. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses SG&A decreased by $34.0 million for the three months ended November 2, 2024, compared to the three months ended October 28, 2023. The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by lower compensation and benefits expense including lower stock-based compensation expense, lower depreciation and amortization expense, and lower facilities costs, largely driven by our restructuring actions. SG&A as a percentage of revenue decreased to 48.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2024, compared with 51.5% for the three months ended October 28, 2023. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended November 2, 2024, compared with the same period last year, was primarily driven by lower compensation and benefits expense including lower stock-based compensation expense, lower depreciation and amortization expense, and lower facilities costs, largely driven by our restructuring actions, as a percentage of revenue. 22 Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from loss from continuing operations for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2024 October 28, 2023 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes $ (6,106) $ (26,002) Provision for income taxes 157 169 Effective tax rate (2.6) % (0.7) % Our continuing operations are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended November 2, 2024, differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. The tax provision for the three months ended November 2, 2024, is primarily comprised of state taxes. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 28, 2023, differed from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. The tax provision for the three months ended October 28, 2023, is primarily comprised of state taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from continuing operations, and borrowing capacity under our credit facility. As of November 2, 2024, we had $137.2 million of cash and cash equivalents attributable to continuing operations, which included $0.3 million held outside the U.S. in the UK, and $116.1 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less. We will use our cash balances in the UK to settle the remaining liabilities attributable to our discontinued operations, and we plan to repatriate the remaining UK cash into the U.S. within 12 months of liquidating of the UK entity. This cash repatriation may be subject to taxes and other local statutory restrictions. Credit Facility On December 4, 2023, we entered into a first lien credit agreement with Citibank, N.A., as agent and lender, which provides for a $50.0 million revolving credit facility maturing on December 4, 2026 (the 2023 Credit Facility). The 2023 Credit Facility includes a sub-facility that provides for the issuance of letters of credit in an amount of up to $30.0 million. Availability of the 2023 Credit Facility will be based upon a borrowing base formula and periodic borrowing base certifications valuing certain of our accounts receivable, credit card receivables, and inventory as reduced by certain reserves, if any. Our borrowing availability based on balances as of November 2, 2024, was $50.0 million, and our excess availability was $31.3 million as a result of outstanding letters of credit, and no outstanding borrowing. For information on the terms of the 2023 Credit Facility, refer to Note 5, Credit Facility within the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Uses of Cash Our primary uses of cash include operating costs such as merchandise purchases, lease obligations, compensation and benefits, marketing, and other expenditures necessary to support our business. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and the borrowing available under our 2023 Credit Facility, if needed, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond. Share Repurchases In January 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $150.0 million of our outstanding Class A common stock, with no expiration date (the 2022 Repurchase Program). We may repurchase shares from time to time through open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased in the future will be determined by the Company in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including price, trading volume, market conditions, and other general business conditions. Repurchases will be funded from the Companys existing cash and cash equivalents or future cash flow. The repurchase program may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time. During the three months ended November 2, 2024, and October 28, 2023, the Company made no repurchases of Class A common stock. As of November 2, 2024, the 23 Company had repurchased an aggregate 2,302,141 shares of Class A common stock for $30.0 million, and $120.0 million remained available under the 2022 Repurchase Program authorization. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated below: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2024 October 28, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 14,268 $ 20,559 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities from continuing operations (35,729) 9,188 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations (3,785) (4,108) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations $ (25,246) $ 25,639 Cash Provided by Operating Activities from Continuing Operations During the three months ended November 2, 2024, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $14.3 million, which consisted of a net loss from continuing operations of $6.3 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $24.5 million and a $4.0 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $12.7 million of stock-based compensation expense; $6.9 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion; and a $5.0 million change in inventory reserves. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $26.2 million change in gross inventory balances as we increased purchases in advance of the fall and winter season. This was largely offset by an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $23.7 million due to timing of inventory receipts and payments. During the three months ended October 28, 2023, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $20.6 million, which consisted of a net loss from continuing operations of $26.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $36.8 million and a $9.9 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $19.9 million of stock-based compensation expense, $13.8 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $33.3 million increase in gross inventory balances, as we increased purchases in advance of the fall and winter season. This was largely offset by an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $42.2 million due to timing of inventory receipts and payments. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities from Continuing Operations During the three months ended November 2, 2024, cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $35.7 million. This was primarily due to the purchases of securities available-for-sale of $46.1 million, partially offset by the sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $14.7 million. During the three months ended October 28, 2023, cash provided in investing activities from continuing operations was $9.2 million. This was primarily due to the maturities of available-for-sale securities of $12.8 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $3.7 million. Cash Used in Financing Activities from Continuing Operations During the three months ended November 2, 2024, cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $3.8 million due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units. During the three months ended October 28, 2023, cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $4.1 million, primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our fiscal 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our fiscal 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 24