Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Financial and Operating Metrics for information on how we define and calculate active clients. The very human experience that we deliver is powered by data science. Our data science capabilities consist of our rich data set and our proprietary algorithms, which fuel our business by enhancing the client experience and driving business model efficiencies. The vast majority of our client data is provided directly and explicitly by the client, rather than inferred, scraped, or obtained from other sources. We also gather extensive merchandise data, such as inseam, pocket shape, silhouette, and fit. This large and growing data set provides the foundation for proprietary algorithms that we use throughout our business, including those that predict purchase behavior, forecast demand, optimize inventory, and enable us to design new apparel. We believe our data science capabilities give us a significant competitive advantage, and as our data set grows, our algorithms become more powerful. 4 With a Fix, we leverage our data science through a custom-built, web-based styling application that provides recommendations to our stylists from our broad selection of merchandise. Our stylists then send the most relevant items from our merchandise to a client in their Fix. Our stylists provide a personal touch, offer styling advice and context to each item selected, and help us develop long-term relationships with our clients. We offer merchandise across multiple price points and styles from established and emerging brands, as well as our own private labels, which we call Exclusive Brands. Many of our brand partners also design and supply items exclusively for our clients. Industry Overview Technology is Driving Transformation Across Industries Technological innovation has profoundly impacted how consumers discover and purchase products, forcing businesses to adapt to engage effectively with consumers. We believe that new business models that embrace these changes and truly focus on the consumer will be the winners in this changing environment. The Apparel, Shoes, and Accessories Market is Massive, but Many Retailers have Failed to Adapt to Changing Consumer Behavior The apparel, shoes, and accessories market is large, but we believe many brick-and-mortar retailers have failed to adapt to evolving consumer preferences. Historically, brick-and-mortar retailers have been the primary source of apparel, shoes, and accessories sales. Over time, brick-and-mortar retail has changed and the era of salespersons who know each customer on a personal level has passed. We believe many of todays consumers view the traditional retail experience as impersonal, time-consuming, and inconvenient. This has led to financial difficulties, bankruptcies, and store closures for many major department stores, specialty retailers, and retail chains. eCommerce is Growing, but has Further Depersonalized the Shopping Experience The internet has created new opportunities for consumers to shop for apparel. eCommerce continues to take market share from brick-and-mortar retail. The first wave of eCommerce companies prioritized low price and fast delivery. This transaction-focused model is well suited for commoditized products and when consumers already know what they want. However, we believe eCommerce companies often fall short when consumers do not know what they want and price and delivery speed are not the primary decision drivers. There is an overwhelming selection of apparel, shoes, and accessories available to consumers online, and standard search bars and filters are poor tools when it comes to finding items that fit ones style, figure, and occasion. eCommerce companies also lack the critical personal touchpoints necessary to help consumers find what they love, further depersonalizing the shopping experience. Personalization is the Next Wave To be relevant today, retailers must find a way to connect with consumers on a personal level and fit conveniently into their lifestyles. Personalization in retail can be difficult and nuanced, as consumers consider many factors that can be difficult to articulate, including style, size, fit, feel, and occasion. We believe that consumers seek personalized retail experiences, which we power through a combination of data science and human judgment. Competition The retail apparel industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include eCommerce companies that sell apparel, shoes, and accessories; local, national, and global department stores; specialty retailers; discount chains; independent retail stores; and the online offerings of these traditional retail competitors. Additionally, we experience competition for consumer discretionary spending from other product and experiential categories. We compete primarily on the basis of client experience, brand, product selection, quality, convenience, and price. We believe that we are able to compete effectively because we offer clients a personalized and fun shopping experience that our competitors are unable to match. See Part I, Item1A Risk FactorsOur industry is highly competitive and if we do not compete effectively our operating results could be adversely affected for more information. Our Service We help millions of clients discover and buy what they love through personalized apparel, shoes, and accessories. Our Data Science Advantage Our data science capabilities fuel our business. These capabilities consist of our rich and growing set of detailed client and merchandise data and our proprietary algorithms. We use data science throughout our business, including to style our clients, offer personalized direct buy options, predict purchase behavior, forecast demand, optimize inventory, and design new apparel. 5 Our data set is particularly powerful because: the vast majority of our client data is provided directly and explicitly by the client, rather than inferred, scraped, or obtained from other sources; our clients are motivated to provide us with relevant personal data, both at initial signup and over time as they use our service, because they trust it will improve their shopping experience; and our merchandise data tracks dimensions that enable us to predict purchase behavior and deliver a more personalized experience. On average, clients that complete our style profile provide us with over 100 meaningful data points, including detailed style, size, fit, and price preferences, as well as unique inputs such as how often they dress for certain occasions or which parts of their bodies the clients like to flaunt or cover up. Over time, through their feedback on Fixes they receive and Freestyle orders, clients share additional information about their preferences as well as detailed data about both the merchandise they keep and return. Historically, over 80% of our shipments have resulted in direct client feedback. This feedback loop drives important network effects, as our client-provided data informs not only our personalization capabilities for the specific client, but also helps us better serve other clients. In addition, Style Shuffle, an interactive mobile and web-based feature in which participants rate Stitch Fix merchandise and outfits, provides additional data to strengthen our understanding of client tastes and style preferences. We believe our proprietary merchandise data set is differentiated from other retailers. We encode each of our SKUs with numerous information attributes to help our algorithms make better recommendations for our clients. The information we store for each SKU includes: basic data, such as brand, size, color, pattern, silhouette, and material; item measurements, such as length, width, diameter of sleeve opening, and distance from collar to first button; nuanced descriptors, such as how appropriate the piece is for a client that prefers preppy clothing or whether it is appropriate for a formal event; and client feedback, such as how the item fit a 57 client or how popular the piece is with young mothers. Our algorithms use our data set to match merchandise to each of our clients. For every combination of client and merchandise, we compute the probability the clients will keep that item based on their and other clients preferences and purchase history as well as the attributes and past performance of the merchandise. Pairing Data Science and Human Judgment The pairing of data science and human judgment drives a better client experience and a more powerful business model. Our advanced data science capabilities harness the power of our data for our stylists and clients by generating predictive recommendations to streamline the curation process, and in the case of Freestyle, generate highly personalized items and outfit recommendations in near real-time. For clients who prefer the assistance of a stylist, these stylists add a critical layer of contextual, human decision making that augments and improves our algorithms selections and creates the ultimate personalization experience. Our Differentiated Value Proposition Our Value Proposition to Clients Our clients love our service for many reasons. We help clients find apparel, shoes, and accessories that they love in a way that is convenient and fun. We save our clients time by presenting them with a personalized shopping experience and expert styling advice they can trust, whether through Freestyle or a Fix. We believe our personalization capability removes the frustration of endlessly scrolling through hundreds of items that clients experience on other eCommerce platforms. Clients also value the quality and diversity of our merchandise as we deliver the familiar brands they know, offer items they cant find anywhere else, and expand their fashion palette by exposing them to new brands and styles they might not have tried. We proudly serve women, men, and kids across ages, sizes, tastes, geographies, and price preferences. Our Value Proposition to Brand Partners We believe that we are a preferred channel for our brand partners. By introducing our clients to brands they may not have shopped for, we help our brand partners reach clients they may not have otherwise reached. Further, we provide our brand partners with insights based on client feedback that help our brand partners improve and evolve their merchandise to better meet consumer demand. 6 Our Strengths Since we were founded in 2011, we have shipped millions of orders to our clients. We have achieved this success due to our following key strengths: our rich client and merchandise data; our expert data science team and proprietary and predictive algorithms; and our team of expert stylists. Our Strategy We aim to transform the way people find what they love. We plan to achieve this goal by continuing to: expand our relationships with existing clients; acquire new clients; and expand our addressable market. How it Works Clients can engage with us in two ways that, when combined, form an ecosystem of personalized experiences across styling, shopping, and inspiration. The first is the Fix, a personalized shipment of items informed by algorithms and sent by a Stitch Fix Stylist. The second is Freestyle, an online assortment of apparel, shoes, and accessories personalized to each client from which the client can purchase. A Fix is a Stitch Fix-branded box containing a personalized assortment of apparel, shoes, and accessories informed by our algorithms and sent by Stitch Fix stylists and delivered to the clients to try on in the comfort of their own homes. They can keep some, all, or none of the items in the Fix and easily return any items in a prepaid-postage bag provided in the Fix. In each Fix, a stylist sends a client items from a broad range of merchandise recommended for the client by our algorithms. These algorithmic recommendations are based on the clients personal style profile, their own order behavior, the aggregate historical behavior of our client base, and the aggregate historical data we have collected on each item of merchandise we have available. We have numerous touch points with our clients. Before clients receive their first Fix, they share the following information with us: Style profile . Upon registering, each client fills out a style profile on either our website or mobile application. The style profile allows us to introduce ourselves to a client, initiate a dialogue, and start gathering data. Personal note to stylist . Clients can share a personal note with their stylists when placing a Fix order or after receiving a Fix. For example, a client might request shoes for a friends wedding or shorts for an upcoming vacation. These personal notes enable us to better personalize a Fix. After completing their initial style profiles, clients choose their preferred order frequency and can select the exact date by which they want to receive their Fix. We currently offer two types of Fix scheduling: Auto-ship . A client can elect to auto-ship Fixes every two to three weeks, monthly, bi-monthly, or quarterly. On-demand . Our on-demand option allows clients to schedule a one-time Fix at any time, either instead of or in addition to utilizing the auto-ship option. On-demand clients are prompted to schedule their next Fix each time they check out, but are not obligated to do so. We recognize that our clients have different needs, so our Fix frequency options are another way that we personalize the client experience. Clients can increase or decrease the Fix frequency at any time, and can also easily reschedule any given shipment to better accommodate their needs. Each Fix is delivered to the clients address of choice. We are investing in product experiences that we believe will drive greater personalization, such as Fix Preview. Fix Preview allows clients the opportunity to view proposed items for their next Fix before it ships, giving clients a chance to provide feedback to their stylists and have more control over the items they receive. In addition to a personalized selection of apparel, shoes, and accessories, each Fix also includes a personal note from the stylist and a style card to provide clients with outfit ideas for each item. Once clients decide which items they wish to keep they can easily check out and pick the delivery date for their next Fix via our website or mobile application. 7 We charge clients a styling fee of $20 in the United States and 10 in the United Kingdom (UK) for each Fix, which is credited toward the merchandise purchased. For our Style Pass clients, we charge a $49 annual fee in the United States, the only country where Style Pass is offered, which provides unlimited styling for the year and is credited toward the merchandise purchased over the course of the year. If clients choose to keep all items chosen for them by their stylist, they receive a discount on the entire shipment, which is 25% in the United States and 20% in the UK. Clients can return the items they do not want or exchange items for a different size if available, using the prepaid-postage bag delivered in the Fix. We request that clients return items to us that they do not wish to purchase within three calendar days of receiving a Fix. With Freestyle, a client can visit our website or mobile application and make direct purchases of apparel, shoes and accessories from a personalized set of recommended items and outfits. A client who onboards through Freestyle will complete a style quiz, which we use to build a personalized shop with curated items that will continue to evolve as we learn more about the client. For clients who have previously made purchases on our platform, our Freestyle algorithms utilize additional data points, including: a clients style profile, past purchases, Style Shuffle responses, and our aggregate historical data with respect to clients and merchandise. Clients can engage with Freestyle through the following features: Trending for You. A client can discover and shop an array of trending looks, personalized for each client. These picks are based on their style profile, Style Shuffle responses, and trending styles. Complete your Looks. After a client has purchased at least one item from us, a client will be able to shop complete outfits that complement their Stitch Fix purchases. Categories. A client can find pieces curated by categories which are informed by their style quiz, style profile, and trending styles. Buy It Again. A client can shop new colors, prints, or sizes of any previously purchased items. Freestyle purchases can be exchanged or returned using a prepaid-postage bag included in each shipment. No styling fee is charged for Freestyle purchases. After clients receive their order, they are invited to provide feedback about the fit, price, style, and quality of the items. This feedback informs both our algorithms and stylists to improve each future order. We also gather feedback through Style Shuffle providing additional data to strengthen our understanding of client tastes and style preferences. Our Merchandise, Brand Partners, and Exclusive Brands The breadth of our merchandise selection is essential to our success. Our algorithms filter over one thousand SKUs to recommend a subset of relevant merchandise to our stylists or clients, who leverage the information to select or purchase merchandise. We source merchandise from brand partners and also create our own merchandise to serve unmet client needs. We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across a range of price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Mens, Kids, as well as Petite, Maternity, and Plus. Brand Partners We partner with established and emerging brands across multiple price points and styles. With many of our brand partners, we develop third-party branded items exclusively sold to Stitch Fix clients. This exclusivity allows our clients to discover personally recommended products that are unavailable elsewhere. In 2020, we founded the Stitch Fix Elevate Grant & Mentorship Program (the Elevate Program), with the mission of helping to grow, mentor, and support apparel and accessories businesses owned by Black, Indigenous and People of Color and are including Elevate Program grantees as new brand partners on the Stitch Fix platform. Exclusive Brands We also design and bring to market our own styles, which we refer to as Exclusive Brands, in order to target specific client needs that are unmet by what our merchandising team can source in the market. We use data science to identify and develop the new products for our Exclusive Brands. We then pair our data with the expertise of our design teams to bring these new products to market. We expect our product development efforts will yield better products for our clients as we acquire more data and feedback. Exclusive Brands are a meaningful part of our business and we expect them to be a permanent part of our portfolio. However, we do not have specific targets for the merchandise mix provided by our brand partners and our Exclusive Brands, and expect it will fluctuate over time. We will continue to develop products when we identify opportunities or gaps in the market. Sourcing We purchase substantially all of our merchandise directly from our brand partners or Exclusive Brands merchandise vendors, who are responsible for the entire manufacturing process. 8 For the production of our Exclusive Brands, we contract with merchandise vendors, some of whom operate their own manufacturing facilities and others subcontract the manufacturing to third parties. Our vendors generally agree to our standard vendor terms, which govern our business relationship. Although we do not have long-term agreements with our vendors, we have long-standing relationships with a diverse base of vendors that we believe to be mutually satisfactory. All of our Exclusive Brand merchandise is produced according to our specifications, and we require that all of our vendors comply with applicable law and observe strict standards of conduct. We have hired independent firms that conduct audits of the working conditions at the factories producing our Exclusive Brands. If an audit reveals potential problems, we require that the vendor institute corrective action plans to bring the factory into compliance with our standards, or we may discontinue our relationship with the vendor. We require that all new factories producing Exclusive Brand merchandise for us be audited before Stitch Fix production begins. Inventory Management and Fulfillment We utilize seven fulfillment centers, six of which are in the United States (located in Arizona, Texas, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Utah, and Indiana), and one in the UK. In our fulfillment centers, our algorithms increase efficiencies in processes such as allocation, batch picking, transportation, shipping, returns, and ongoing process improvement. We have a reverse logistics operation to manage returned merchandise. Our specialist returns teams in our dedicated return intake areas accept, process, and reallocate returns to our inventory so the merchandise can be offered for another Fix or Freestyle order. Seasonality Seasonality in our business does not follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical high concentration of revenue in the holiday quarter. Historically, our net sales have not been concentrated in a particular period or season, with 28%, 25%, 24%, and 23% of our annual net sales being recognized during the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended 2022, respectively. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets, and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. Our principal trademark assets include the trademarks Stitch Fix and Fix, which are registered in the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, our logos and taglines, and multiple private label apparel and accessory brand names. We have applied to register or registered many of our trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions, and we will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe they would be beneficial and cost-effective. We file patents in the United States and abroad and intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective. We are the registered holder of multiple domestic and international domain names that include stitchfix and similar variations. We also hold domain registrations for many of our private-label brand names and other related trade names and slogans. Our proprietary algorithm technologies, other than those incorporated into a patent application, are protected by trade secret laws. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, and business partners. Our employees are also subject to invention assignment agreements. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both our client terms of use on our website and in our vendor terms and conditions. Government Regulation As with all retailers and companies operating on the internet, we are subject to a variety of international and U.S. federal and state laws governing the processing of payments, consumer protection, the privacy of consumer information, and other laws regarding unfair and deceptive trade practices. Apparel, shoes, and accessories sold by us are also subject to regulation by governmental agencies in the United States and in the UK. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety. We are also subject to environmental laws, rules, and regulations. Similarly, apparel, shoes, and accessories sold by us are also subject to import regulations in the United States and other countries concerning the use of wildlife products for commercial and non-commercial trade, including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current fiscal year or in the near future. 9 Human Capital Headcount As of July 30, 2022, we had approximately 7,920 full-time and part-time employees, including over 3,430 stylists, 3,110 fulfillment center employees, 430 engineers and data scientists, 170 client experience employees, 190 merchandising employees, and 590 general and administrative employees. As of such date, 82% of our employees, 56% of our management team, and 44% of our Board of Directors identified as female. Employee Relations None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to employee disputes, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We value our employees feedback and conduct anonymous employee engagement and satisfaction surveys at least annually, with quarterly pulse surveys, which we use to determine what is important to our employees and to evolve Company practices and policies. Pay Equity We believe pay equity is equal pay for work of equal value. By paying employees fairly and consistently based on the role they perform, location, and according to market data, companies can ensure that employees are not paid based on factors like gender, race, or ethnicity. We know these subjective factors can play a role in compensation, to the employees disadvantage or to their advantage, and so our compensation philosophy is rooted in pay equity as a guiding principle. We established a system of equal pay from Stitch Fixs inception. We believe a fair and unbiased compensation structure is a critical component to drive a more inclusive culture within our own walls and beyondand ultimately helps us attract and retain the highest caliber talent. It also means that we can sustain a system that creates less motivation for self-serving politics or individual goals, and creates intrinsic motivation to drive toward collective success and the happiness of our clients. On an annual basis, we retain a third party to audit our pay data. While we have confidence in our approach and philosophy, we want to ensure that our compensation system withstands external review by applying appropriate and accepted methods and standards. The results have continued to show there is no statistically significant difference in pay across gender, race or any other protected classes at Stitch Fix, and that women earn $1.00 for every $1.00 earned by comparable men and employees of color earn $1.00 for every $1.00 earned by comparable white employees. We will continue to analyze these numbers each year to ensure we maintain pay equity. While we have equal pay for work of equal value, other biases can impact pay. With that in mind, we continue to be vigilant and review areas like leveling and promotions in our organization to ensure that we are working to identify and mitigate any biases in these processes. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The goal of our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategy is to ensure that our people and business practices allow us to build a company, products, and experiences that reflect the richness of the communities in which we operate. We know that a diverse employee base makes Stitch Fix better, our ideas stronger, and our experience more broadly resonate with the clients we serve today, and will serve in the future. We work towards equitable practices to mitigate bias across areas like hiring, employee performance, evaluation, and promotion; our employee experience; and our vendor and brand engagement. We invest in spaces for employees to learn and grow so that they are equipped to design and uphold equitable systems and processes. To ensure that our ongoing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion strategy is informed by and rooted in data, we set out to more deeply understand and share our company demography and define clear baselines to improve upon. Our goal in this work is to drive knowledge, precision, and transparencynot only for ourselves internally, but also to contribute to the dialogue and information sharing that is critical to chartering a path forward for the industry. We also have established seven Employee Resource Groups, which we call Stitch Fix Communities. The goal of our Stitch Fix Communities is to create spaces that drive increased inclusion and belonging for individuals from underrepresented groups who have historically been marginalized in our broader society, build on our mission of inspiring people to be their best, authentic selves, and to create opportunities for employees to share their perspectives with our leaders and connect with each other on a deeper level. Each Stitch Fix Community is led by employees who are supported by an Executive Sponsor, recognized for their leadership, and compensated for their time with learning and development investments and annual special equity grants. 10 Corporate and Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2011 under the name rack habit inc. We changed our name to Stitch Fix, Inc. in October 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 1 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100, San Francisco, California, 94104, and our telephone number is (415) 882-7765. Our website is located at www.stitchfix.com, and our investor relations website is located at https://investors.stitchfix.com. We file or furnish electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make copies of these reports available free of charge through our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Stitch Fix and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through our websites is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTOR SUMMARY Our business is subject to numerous risks. The following summary highlights some of the risks you should consider with respect to our business and prospects. This summary is not complete and the risks summarized below are not the only risks we face. You should review and consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described in more detail in the Risk Factors below, which includes a more complete discussion of the risks summarized here. Risks Relating to Our Business Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients. We may be unable to maintain a high level of engagement with our clients and increase their spending with us, which could harm our business, financial condition, or operating results. We rely on paid marketing to help grow our business, but these efforts may not be successful or cost effective, and such expenses may vary from period to period. If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant disruption to our operations and impacted our business, key financial and operating metrics, and results of operations in numerous ways that remain unpredictable. Our failure to adequately and effectively staff our fulfillment centers and other operational constraints at our fulfillment centers could adversely affect our client experience and operating results. Shipping is a critical part of our business and any changes in our shipping arrangements or any interruptions in shipping could adversely affect our operating results. Our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with the sourcing and pricing of merchandise and raw materials . We may not be able to return to or sustain our revenue growth rate and we may not be profitable in the future. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be harmed. If we are unable to develop and introduce new offerings or expand into new markets in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be negatively impacted. We have a short operating history in an evolving industry and, as a result, our past results may not be indicative of future operating performance. Expansion of our operations internationally requires management attention and resources, involves additional risks, and may be unsuccessful. Our business depends on a strong brand and we may not be able to maintain our brand and reputation. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, effectively manage succession, or hire, develop, and motivate our employees, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our stylists, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to acquire new merchandise vendors or retain existing merchandise vendors, our operating results may be harmed. We may incur significant losses from fraud. We are subject to payment-related risks. Risks Relating to our Industry, the Market, and the Economy We rely on consumer discretionary spending and may be adversely affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends. Our industry is highly competitive and if we do not compete effectively our operating results could be adversely affected. Our operating results have been, and could be in the future, adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. 12 Cybersecurity, Legal and Regulatory Risks System interruptions that impair client access to our website or other performance failures in our technology infrastructure could damage our business. Compromises of our data security could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and may materially harm our reputation and operating results. Some of our software and systems contain open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary applications. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we are or may be involved could expose us to monetary damages or limit our ability to operate our business. Any failure by us or our vendors to comply with product safety, labor, or other laws, or our standard vendor terms and conditions, or to provide safe factory conditions for our or their workers, may damage our reputation and brand, and harm our business. Our use of personal information and other data subjects us to privacy laws and obligations, and our compliance with or failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. Unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with evolving internet and eCommerce regulations could substantially harm our business and operating results. If the use of cookie tracking technologies is further restricted, regulated, or blocked, or if changes in technology cause cookies to become less reliable or acceptable as a means of tracking consumer behavior, the amount or accuracy of internet user information we collect would decrease, which could harm our business and operating results. If we cannot successfully protect our intellectual property, our business would suffer. We may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. Risks Relating to Taxes Changes in U.S. tax or tariff policy regarding apparel produced in other countries could adversely affect our business. We could be required to collect additional sales taxes or be subject to other tax liabilities that may increase the costs our clients would have to pay for our offering and adversely affect our operating results. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations . We may be subject to additional tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The market price of our Class A common stock may continue to be volatile or may decline steeply or suddenly regardless of our operating performance and we may not be able to meet investor or analyst expectations. You may lose all or part of your investment. We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The dual class structure of our common stock concentrates voting control with our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, and may depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our Class A common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation of the value of our Class A common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States are the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. General Risk Factors Future securities sales and issuances could result in significant dilution to our stockholders and impair the market price of our Class A common stock. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information and this may lead to a decline in our stock price. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available or may be available only by diluting existing stockholders. If securities or industry analysts either do not publish research about us or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the trading price or trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline. 13 RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report), and in our other public filings. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Relating to Our Business Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients. Our success depends on our ability to attract new clients in a cost-effective manner. To expand our client base, we must appeal to and acquire clients who have historically used other means to purchase apparel, shoes, and accessories, such as traditional brick-and-mortar apparel retailers or the websites of our competitors. We also face competition for clients from other retailers who offer or plan to offer similar services as ours. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, campaigns with celebrities and influencers, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. The launch of Freestyle to new-to-Stitch Fix clients also opened up new marketing opportunities and channels with which we have less experience. Our marketing expenses have varied from period to period, and we expect this trend to continue as we test new channels and refine our marketing strategies. We may increase our marketing spend and cannot be certain that increases in marketing spend will yield more clients, achieve meaningful payback on our investments, or be cost effective. We may also adjust our marketing strategy or spend within a period if we are not achieving the intended results or if we believe the return-on-investment is not favorable, which may result in faster or slower rates of active client growth in any given period. For instance, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, we did not spend as much on marketing as anticipated as we waited to launch Freestyle to new-to-Stitch Fix customers. In the first and second fiscal quarters of fiscal year 2022, we spent less on marketing because we were experiencing weaker-than-expected conversion of new clients and decided to pull back to focus on evolving the Freestyle offering and refining the client onboarding experience. This negatively impacted our ability to acquire new clients, and in turn, our net revenue in subsequent quarters of fiscal year 2022. We also experienced weaker-than-expected conversion of new clients in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2022 driven by onboarding challenges and lower site traffic, due in part to the ongoing effects of Apples iOS privacy changes that r equire apps to get a users opt-in permission before tracking or sharing the users data across apps or websites owned by companies other than the apps owner . In addition, we seek to attract new clients by offering new products, services, and ways to engage with our platform, such as our Freestyle offering. If such new products or services are not timely or successfully launched or are not successful in attracting new clients, our revenue growth and results of operations may suffer. In fiscal year 2022, our results were below our expectations, in large part, because the initial launch of our Freestyle did not drive as much new client growth as we anticipated. Moreover, new clients may not purchase from us as frequently or spend as much with us as existing clients, and the revenue generated from new clients may not be as high as the revenue generated from our existing clients. These factors may harm our growth prospects and our business could be adversely affected. We may be unable to maintain a high level of engagement with our clients and increase their spending with us, which could harm our business, financial condition, or operating results. A high proportion of our revenue comes from repeat purchases by existing clients, especially those existing clients who are highly engaged and purchase a significant amount of merchandise from us. If existing clients no longer find our service and merchandise appealing or appropriately priced, they may make fewer purchases and may stop using our service. Even if our existing clients continue to find our service and merchandise appealing, they may decide to receive fewer Fixes or purchase fewer items from their Fixes or through Freestyle over time as their demand for new apparel declines or due to macroeconomic conditions or uncertainty. In addition, as we expand our assortment to include more products with lower price points, the amount clients spend with us may decrease. If clients who receive Fixes most frequently or purchase a significant amount of merchandise from us were to make fewer or lower priced purchases or stop using our service, our financial results could be negatively affected. We seek to attract high-quality clients who will remain clients for the long term, but our efforts may not be successful or produce the results we anticipate. For example, if we are not able to engage new Fix clients effectively so they continue receiving Fixes after their first few tries, our active client growth will suffer. In addition, in the fall of 2021, we launched Freestyle to new-to-Stitch Fix clients. We did not acquire as many new clients through Freestyle as we had hoped and we have less experience engaging with this new client base and developing high-quality relationships outside of our Fix offering. Our inability to attract and keep high-quality clients engaged, a decrease in our number of clients, or a decrease in client spending on the merchandise we offer could negatively affect our operating results. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to increase sales to our existing clients over time and, if we are unable to do so, our business may suffer. 14 We rely on paid marketing to help grow our business, but these efforts may not be successful or cost effective, and such expenses may vary from period to period. Promoting awareness of our service is important to our ability to grow our business, drive client engagement, and attract new clients. Our marketing efforts currently include client referrals, affiliate programs, campaigns with celebrities and influencers, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. External factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and decreased discretionary consumer spending, have impacted and may in the future impact the success of our marketing initiatives or how much we decide to spend on marketing in a given period. We also adjust our marketing activity from period to period or within a period as we launch new initiatives or offerings, such as Freestyle, run tests, or make decisions on marketing investments in response to anticipated rates of return, such as when we identify favorable cost per acquisition trends. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, we did not spend as much on marketing as anticipated as we waited to launch Freestyle to new-to-Stitch Fix customers. In the first and second fiscal quarters of fiscal year 2022, we spent less on marketing because we were experiencing weaker-than-expected conversion of new clients and decided to pull back to focus on evolving the Freestyle offering and refining the client onboarding experience. This led to fewer clients being acquired, which negatively impacted our net revenue for the remainder of fiscal year 2022. W e have seen increased costs in certain digital marketing channels and our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive; generating a meaningful return on those initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of our paid marketing efforts, it may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur . We currently obtain a significant number of visits to our websites via organic search engine results. Search engines frequently change the algorithms that determine the ranking and display of results of a users search, which could reduce the number of organic visits to our websites, in turn reducing new client acquisition and adversely affecting our operating results. Social networks are important as a source of new clients and as a means by which to connect with current clients, and their importance may be increasing. We may be unable to effectively maintain a presence within these networks, which could lead to lower than anticipated brand affinity and awareness, and in turn could adversely affect our operating results. Further, mobile operating system and web browser providers, such as Apple and Google, have implemented product changes to limit the ability of advertisers to collect and use data to target and measure advertising. For example, Apple made a change in iOS 14 that required apps to get a users opt-in permission before tracking or sharing the users data across apps or websites owned by companies other than the apps owner. Google intends to further restrict the use of third-party cookies in its Chrome browser in 2023, consistent with similar actions taken by the owners of other browsers, such as Apple in its Safari browser, and Mozilla in its Firefox browser. These changes have reduced and will continue to reduce our ability to efficiently target and measure advertising, in particular through online social networks, making our advertising less cost effective and successful. We expect to continue to be impacted by these changes. With respect to our email marketing efforts, if we are unable to successfully deliver emails to our clients or if clients do not engage with our emails, whether out of choice, because those emails are marked as low priority or spam, or for other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. To ensure timely delivery of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase contracts well in advance of a particular season and often before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. For example, in response to the initial consumer reaction to COVID-19, we cancelled many inventory orders to be prepared for what we expected would be lower client demand. Consequently, when client demand increased, our inventory was not as optimized to meet the demand as we would have liked. Additionally, surges in cases of COVID-19 impacted some of our vendors, who had delays in producing our orders. Freight delays caused by lockdowns due to COVID-19, port closures, port congestion, and shipping container and ship shortages have affected us and caused us to experience delays in receiving inventory. Freight delays caused by these issues or new issues, including labor disruptions or shortages, may affect us in future quarters. Our inventory levels also may be affected by product launch delays, consumer demand fluctuations due to macroeconomic factors, uncertainty or otherwise, disruptions in our systems due to upgrades, launches or otherwise, and our inability to predict demand with respect to new categories or products. In the past, we have not always predicted our clients preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy, which has resulted in significant inventory write offs and lower gross margins. Furthermore, we have only recently begun using more traditional liquidation methods, such as sales, clearance events and markdowns, and only to a limited extent thus far. We rely on our merchandising team to order styles and products that our clients will purchase and we rely on our data science to inform the depth and breadth of inventory we purchase, including when to reorder items that are selling well and when to write off items that are not selling well. If we do not predict client demand and tastes well or if our algorithms do not help us reorder or write off the right products in a timely manner, we may not effectively manage our inventory and we may experience future significant inventory write-offs, which would adversely affect our operating results. For instance, in the fourth quarter of 2022, we experienced weaker consumer demand, which caused us to have higher inventory levels and increased inventory reserves that affected our financial results. Additionally, in the past we have experienced challenges managing our inventory within the fulfillment centers given storage capacity constraints and challenges hiring fulfillment center employees. Any future such challenges could affect, the amount and types of inventory we have available to offer to clients, and therefore our operating results. 15 The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant disruption to our operations and impacted our business, key financial and operating metrics, and results of operations in numerous ways that remain unpredictable. Our business has been and may continue to be materially impacted by the effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. This pandemic and related measures taken to contain the spread of COVID-19, such as government-mandated business closures, office closures, state and local orders to shelter in place, and travel and transportation restrictions, have negatively affected the U.S. and global economies and disrupted global supply chains. There continues to be uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic, its duration, and its impact on U.S. and global economic activity and consumer behavior. The COVID-19 pandemic and related measures have resulted in significant disruption that has negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our business. We experienced temporary closures and reduced capacity in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 as we temporarily closed three of our fulfillment centers as we responded to the pandemic. We allowed employees to opt-in to work, provided them with four weeks of flexible paid time off, and implemented additional safety protocols. These efforts resulted in significantly less capacity in our fulfillment centers during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, which resulted in delayed Fix shipments, a significant Fix backlog, delayed inventory and return processing, extended wait times for clients, and inventory management challenges. We also experienced intermittent and temporary closures in fiscal year 2021 and increases of COVID-19 cases in our fulfillment centers in connection with the increases of cases caused by both the Delta and Omicron variants. These increases in cases negatively affected operations at our fulfillment centers and any future surges in cases may negatively affect our operations in the future. Additionally, in fiscal year 2021, we experienced difficulty hiring employees in our fulfillment centers, which we attributed to both COVID-19 concerns and to increased competition and rising wages for eCommerce fulfillment center workers. Future capacity constraints in our fulfillment centers could cause delayed Fix shipments, delayed inventory and return processing, and inventory management challenges. The COVID-19 pandemic has, at times, negatively impacted our results of operations, and the future impact and duration of this impact remain uncertain. It will depend on factors such as the length of time the pandemic; the impact of variants that may emerge; the availability of vaccines in different parts of the world; the vaccine rates among the population; the efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines against variants that may emerge; the response by governmental bodies to reinstate mandated business closures, orders to shelter in place, and travel and transportation restrictions in the event of additional surges; the impact of the pandemic on the economy and consumer behavior, including the impacts of any recession or inflationary pressures resulting from the pandemic; and the effect on our clients, employees, vendors, and other partners. For example, we continue to work with our vendors to minimize inventory disruptions, but future delays and supply constraints may negatively affect our ability to obtain and manage inventory. We have experienced shipping delays to and from our customers as a result of our shipping vendors challenges fulfilling higher eCommerce shipping demand, which has impacted our results of operations. We also have been affected by, and expect to continue to be affected by, COVID-related freight delays and difficulties sourcing materials. Additionally, we may be negatively impacted if consumers shift back to traditional brick-and-mortar apparel retailers following the pandemic. We re-opened our headquarters to employees in the third quarter of 2022, but most employees to continue to work in a remote capacity or a hybrid of in-person and remote work. Remote working environments present additional risks, uncertainties and costs that could affect our performance, including increased operational risk, uncertainty regarding office space needs, heightened vulnerability to cyber attacks due to increased remote work, potential reduced productivity, changes to our Company culture, potential strains to our business continuity plans, and increased costs to ensure our offices are safe and functional as hybrid offices that enable effective collaboration of both remote and in-person colleagues. The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic disruption has also led to significant volatility in the capital markets. And while we have taken measures to preserve our access to liquidity, our cash generated from operations has been negatively impacted and future cash flows may be impacted by the development of the pandemic. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also exacerbate other risks discussed below, any of which could have a material effect on us. Though we continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic closely, the situation is continually evolving and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently. In addition, if there are future resurgences of COVID-19, including of new strains or variants, the negative impacts on our business may be exacerbated. Our failure to adequately and effectively staff our fulfillment centers and other operational constraints at our fulfillment centers could adversely affect our client experience and operating results. We currently receive and distribute merchandise at six fulfillment centers in the United States. We also have a fulfillment center in the UK, which is operated by a third party. During the third quarter of our 2020 fiscal year, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily closed three of our fulfillment centers, offered our fulfillment center employees four weeks of paid time off, and reduced the maximum number of employees in each fulfillment center in order to implement social distancing protocols. These changes resulted in operational constraints, which in turn temporarily reduced our ability to ship merchandise to clients and earn revenue during the third quarter of our 2020 fiscal year. In fiscal year 2021, we experienced smaller, intermittent interruptions in connection with temporary closures of fulfillment centers and experienced an increase of COVID-19 cases in our fulfillment centers. Any future surges of COVID-19 may cause increased cases among fulfillment center employees and negatively affect capacity at our fulfillment centers. 16 Additionally, we recently experienced difficulty hiring employees in our fulfillment centers, which we attribute to COVID-19 concerns and to increased competition and rising wages for eCommerce fulfillment center workers. To address this, we increased wages in our fulfillment centers and implemented other policies in order to be more competitive in hiring employees. These wage increases impacted our operating results. We may in the future have difficulty hiring employees in fulfillment centers due to increased competition or otherwise and we may have to increase wages for our fulfillment center employees, which would impact our operating results. These hiring difficulties have caused in the past and could in the future cause additional capacity constraints in our fulfillment centers. Capacity constraints in our fulfillment centers could affect the amount and types of inventory we have available to offer to clients, which will affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we or our third-party partner are unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers to meet demand, or if the cost of such staffing is higher than projected due to competition, mandated wage increases, regulatory changes, international expansion, or other factors, our operating results will be further harmed. Severe weather events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, storms, and other adverse weather events and climate conditions could also cause operational constraints or temporarily reduce our ability to ship merchandise to clients. For instance, the severe winter weather and temperatures experienced in Texas and other parts of the country in February 2021 caused us to temporarily close two of our fulfillment centers and affected the shipping of merchandise in and out of fulfillment centers. Future weather events, which we expect to become more frequent and more severe with the increasing effects of climate change, could have a significant impact on our operations and results of operations. In addition, operating fulfillment centers comes with potential risks, such as workplace safety issues and employment claims for the failure or alleged failure to comply with labor laws or laws respecting union organizing activities. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with wage and hour laws for our nonexempt employees, many of whom work in our fulfillment centers, we could be subject to legal risk, including claims for back wages, unpaid overtime pay, and missed meal and rest periods, which could be on a class or representative basis. Any such issues may result in delays in shipping times, reduced packing quality, or costly litigation, and our reputation and operating results may be harmed. Finally, by using a third-party operator for one of our fulfillment centers, we also face additional risks associated with not having complete control over operations at our UK fulfillment center. Any deterioration in the financial condition or operations of that third party, or the loss of the relationship with that third party, or any event or crisis that impacts the UK generally or the specific area where our fulfillment center is located, would have a significant impact on our operations. Shipping is a critical part of our business and any changes in our shipping arrangements or any interruptions in shipping could adversely affect our operating results. We currently rely on three major vendors for our shipping. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable pricing and other terms with these entities, shipping prices increase at unexpected levels, or our shipping vendors experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating results and our clients experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently, ship merchandise to clients, and receive returned merchandise from clients may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, labor disputes, shortages, or strikes, acts of war or terrorism, periods of high e-commerce volume, such as holiday seasons, and similar factors. Due to our business model and the fact that we recognize revenue from Fixes when a client checks out items, rather than when Fixes are shipped, we may be impacted by shipping delays to a greater extent than our competitors. Additionally, delays in shipping may cause an auto-ship clients subsequent Fixes to be scheduled for a later date, as their next Fix is not scheduled until their checkout is complete. In the second quarter of our 2021 fiscal year, we experienced carrier and client shipping delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the increased strain on our shipping partners during the holiday season. These delays affected our ability to recognize revenue within the quarter, and we may in the future experience these delays and the resulting impact to our financial results, including potentially during future holiday seasons. In the past, strikes at major international shipping ports have impacted our supply of inventory from our vendors and severe weather events have resulted in long delivery delays and Fix cancellations. Additionally, some of our merchandise may be damaged or lost during transit with our shipping vendors. If a greater portion of our merchandise is not delivered in a timely fashion or is damaged or lost during transit, it could adversely affect our operating results or could cause our clients to become dissatisfied and cease using our services, which would adversely affect our business. 17 Our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with the sourcing and pricing of merchandise and raw materials. We currently source nearly all of the merchandise that we offer from third-party vendors, many of whom use manufacturers in the same geographic region, and as a result we may be subject to price increases or fluctuations, inflationary pressures, tariffs, demand disruptions, increased shipping or freight costs, or shipping delays in connection with our merchandise. Increased shipping or freights costs or shipping and freight delays could be caused or exacerbated by labor disputes, shortages, or strikes, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, acts of war or terrorism, and periods of high e-commerce volume. Our operating results are and have been negatively impacted by increases in the cost of our merchandise, and we have no guarantees that costs will not rise further or at increasing rates. In addition, as we expand into new categories, product types, and geographies, we expect that we may not have strong purchasing power in these new areas, which could lead to higher costs than we have historically seen in our current categories. We may not be able to pass increased costs on to clients, which could adversely affect our operating results. The fabrics used by our vendors are made of raw materials including, but not limited to, petroleum-based products and cotton. Significant price increases or fluctuations, currency volatility or fluctuation, tariffs, shortages, increases in shipping or freight costs, or shipping delays of petroleum, cotton, or other raw materials could significantly increase our cost of goods sold or affect our operating results. The COVID-19 pandemic caused delays in some shipments from our suppliers and we have experienced and are now experiencing delays in some shipments from our suppliers caused by lockdowns due to COVID-19, factory and port closures, port congestion, and shipping container and other shortages. Additionally, we have limited visibility into delays or control over shipping. We expect these delays to continue as long as COVID-19 continues to affect geographies around the world. We are also experiencing increased costs of goods due to these freight challenges, increases in the price of raw materials, inflationary pressures, rising fuel and other energy costs, and currency volatility, and we expect that prices may continue to increase in the near future and affect our operating results. Other factors such as natural disasters have in the past increased raw material costs, impacted pricing with certain of our vendors, and caused shipping delays for certain of our merchandise. Also, the U.S. governments ban on cotton imported from the Xinjiang region of China, the source of a large portion of the worlds cotton supply, may impact prices and the availability of cotton for our merchandise. Additionally, our products and materials (including potentially non-cotton materials) could be held for inspection by the United States Customs Border Protection (the US CBP), which would cause delays and unexpectedly affect our inventory levels. In addition, the labor costs to produce our products may fluctuate. In the event of a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials used in the manufacture of the merchandise we offer, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. Any delays, interruption, damage to, or increased costs in raw materials or the manufacture of the merchandise we offer could result in higher prices to acquire the merchandise, or non-delivery of merchandise altogether, and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot guarantee that merchandise we receive from vendors will be of sufficient quality or free from damage, or that such merchandise will not be damaged during shipping, while stored in one of our fulfillment centers, or when returned by customers. While we take measures to ensure merchandise quality and avoid damage, we cannot control merchandise while it is out of our possession or prevent all damage while in our fulfillment centers. We may incur additional expenses and our reputation could be harmed if clients and potential clients believe that our merchandise is not of high quality or may be damaged. We may not be able to return to or sustain our revenue growth rate and we may not be profitable in the future. Our past revenue growth and profitability should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Our revenue decreased by 1.4% in fiscal 2022 compared to 2021, increased by 22.8% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, and increased 8.5% in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. In the third fiscal quarter of 2022 our revenue decreased by 8.0% as compared to the third fiscal quarter of 2021, and in the fourth quarter of 2022 our revenue decreased by 15.6% as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Our revenue growth rates may continue to decline in future periods due to a number of factors, which may include general economic conditions and decreased discretionary consumer spending, the short- and long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, decreases in marketing spend, slower client acquisition growth, slower demand for our merchandise and service, increased competition, decreases in the growth rate of our overall market, and our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities, as well as the maturation of our business. We announced a restructuring plan on June 9, 2022, intended to reduce our future fixed and variable operating costs. However, our restructuring plan may not adequately reduce expenses or impact our results as we anticipate. Moreover, our expenses may increase, particularly as we expand our operations, infrastructure and geographic markets; develop and introduce new merchandise offerings; hire and retain personnel; and invest in our marketing initiatives. We may not always pursue short-term profits but are often focused on long-term growth, which may impact our financial results. If our revenue does not increase to offset increases in our operating expenses, we may not be profitable in future periods. 18 If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be harmed. To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and technology, and expand, train, and manage our employee base. To support continued growth, we must effectively recruit, hire, integrate, develop, and motivate new employees while maintaining our corporate culture, which is made more challenging due to our hybrid environment of in-person and remote work. We are also required to manage numerous relationships with various vendors and other third parties. Further growth of our operations, vendor base, fulfillment centers, information technology systems, or internal