ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 3, 2019 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 2, 2019. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. Each fiscal year typically consists of four 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal year ended August 3, 2019 , and the fiscal year ended August 1, 2020 , include 53 and 52 weeks of operations, respectively. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans, and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Since our founding in 2011, we have helped millions of men, women, and kids discover and buy what they love through personalized shipments of apparel, shoes, and accessories, hand-selected by Stitch Fix stylists and delivered to our clients homes. We call each of these shipments a Fix. Clients can choose to schedule automatic shipments or order a Fix on demand after they fill out a style profile on our website or mobile app. For each Fix, we charge clients a styling fee that is credited toward items they purchase. Alternatively, select U.S. clients may purchase an annual Style Pass, which offers unlimited styling for the year for a $49 fee that is also credited towards items they purchase. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any, at no additional charge. In addition, our Extras feature allows clients to select items such as socks, bras, underwear, and other intimates that are then added to the items their stylist selects for their Fix. In May 2019, we launched our service in the UK. In June 2019, we launched direct-buy functionality to allow clients the flexibility of purchasing items outside of a Fix. The first offering of this direct-buy functionality is Shop New Colors, which is available for Mens and Womens clients in the United States and allows clients to order previously purchased items in different colors, sizes, or prints. No styling fee is charged for direct purchases. We believe our success in serving clients has resulted in our rapid and profitable growth. We have achieved positive cash flows from operations on an annual basis since 2014, while continuing to make meaningful investments to drive growth. For the three months ended November 2, 2019 , we reported $444.8 million in net revenue representing year-over-year growth of 21.5% from the three months ended October 27, 2018 . As of November 2, 2019 , and October 27, 2018 , we had 3,416,000 and 2,930,000 active clients, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 16.6% . We incurred a net loss of $0.2 million for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , a decrease of $10.9 million compared to net income of $10.7 million for the three months ended October 27, 2018 . Key Metrics We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between 17 companies. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. We also provide adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of stock-based compensation (ex. SBC), which management believes provides useful information to investors and others in understanding our operating performance and facilitates comparisons between companies. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC excludes the non-cash expense of stock-based compensation, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, an important part of how we attract and retain our employees and a significant recurring expense in our business; adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC does not reflect our tax provision, which reduces cash available to us; adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC excludes interest (income) expense and other (income) expense, net, as these items are not components of our core business; and free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) excluding interest (income) expense, provision for income taxes, other (income) expense, net, and depreciation and amortization. We define adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC as adjusted EBITDA excluding stock-based compensation expense. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2019 October 27, 2018 Adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC reconciliation: Net income (loss) $ (178 ) $ 10,678 Add (deduct): Interest (income) expense (1,653 ) (1,399 ) Provision for income taxes 1,157 1,738 Other (income) expense, net 834 (120 ) Depreciation and amortization 4,966 3,394 Adjusted EBITDA 5,126 14,291 Add (deduct): Stock-based compensation expense 12,126 6,637 Adjusted EBITDA ex. SBC $ 17,252 $ 20,928 18 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flows provided by operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flows used in investing activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of cash flows provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2019 October 27, 2018 Free cash flow reconciliation: Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 27,524 $ 50,966 Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment (7,502 ) (6,985 ) Free cash flow $ 20,022 $ 43,981 Cash flows used in investing activities $ (46,521 ) $ (175,778 ) Cash flows provided by financing activities $ (1,694 ) $ 637 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix or was shipped an item using our direct-buy functionality in the preceding 52 weeks, measured as of the last day of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Mens, Womens, or Kids account as a client, even if they share the same household. We had 3,416,000 and 2,930,000 active clients as of November 2, 2019 , and October 27, 2018 , respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 16.6% . Factors Affecting Our Performance Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage them. We believe that implementing broad-based marketing strategies that increase our brand awareness has the potential to strengthen Stitch Fix as a national consumer brand, help us acquire new clients, and drive revenue growth. As our business has achieved a greater scale and we are able to support a large and growing client base, we have increased our investments in marketing to take advantage of more marketing channels to efficiently acquire clients. For example, we continued to increase our advertising spend, from $38.9 million for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , to $50.7 million for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to make significant marketing investments to grow our business. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. To successfully acquire clients and increase engagement, we must also continue to improve the diversity of our offering. These efforts may include broadening our brand partnerships and expanding into new categories, product types, price points, and geographies. For example, in July 2018 we launched Stitch Fix Kids, expanding our client and vendor base, and in May 2019, we launched our services in the UK, expanding our geographic scope. In June 2019, we introduced a direct-buy functionality with Shop New Colors, allowing clients in the United States to buy previously purchased items in new colors, prints, and sizes. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure To grow our client base and enhance our offering, we will incur additional expenses. We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to inform investments in operations and infrastructure. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as we continue to hire additional personnel and further advance our technological and data science capabilities. Moreover, we intend to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment centers, and office space and logistics infrastructure as we launch new categories, expand internationally, and drive operating efficiencies. We expect to increase our spending on these investments in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our client base or be cost-effective. However, we believe these strategies will yield positive returns in the long term. Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and 19 frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new locations such as the UK, new categories such as Stitch Fix Kids, or adding new fulfillment centers will all require additional investments in inventory. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across categories, brands, product types, and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Exclusive Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry, and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. While changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin to date, categories, brands, product types, and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Exclusive Brands have generally contributed higher margin, shoes have generally contributed lower margin, and new categories, such as Kids, tend to initially have lower margins. Shifts in merchandise mix driven by client demand may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise. We charge a nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased in the Fix. We deduct discounts, sales tax, and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout the report. We offer Style Pass to provide select U.S. clients with an alternative to paying a styling fee per Fix. Style Pass clients pay a nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. To a lesser extent, we also recognize revenue resulting from direct purchases and estimated breakage income on gift cards. We expect our revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business, although our revenue growth rate may slow in future periods. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for shipping to and from clients and inbound freight, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees, and packaging materials costs, offset by the recoverable cost of merchandise estimated to be returned. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense for our employees including our stylists, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, marketing, client experience, and corporate personnel. Selling, general, and administrative expenses also include marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. We expect our selling, general, and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue due to the anticipated growth of our business, increased marketing investments, and additional costs associated with being a public company. Our classification of selling, general, and administrative expenses may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists of an estimate of federal, state, and international income taxes based on enacted federal, state, and international tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, and uncertain tax positions. 20 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended November 2, 2019 , and October 27, 2018 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) November 2, 2019 October 27, 2018 Change Revenue, net $ 444,815 $ 366,236 21.5 % Cost of goods sold 243,513 201,068 21.1 % Gross profit 201,302 165,168 21.9 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 201,142 154,271 30.4 % Operating income (loss) 160 10,897 (98.5 )% Interest (income) expense (1,653 ) (1,399 ) 18.2 % Other (income) expense, net 834 (120 ) * Income before income taxes 979 12,416 (92.1 )% Provision for income taxes 1,157 1,738 (33.4 )% Net income (loss) $ (178 ) $ 10,678 (101.7 )% * Not meaningful The following table sets forth the components of our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: For the Three Months Ended November 2, 2019 October 27, 2018 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 54.7 % 54.9 % Gross margin 45.3 % 45.1 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 45.3 % 42.1 % Operating income (loss) % 3.0 % Interest (income) expense (0.4 )% (0.4 )% Other (income) expense, net 0.2 % % Income before income taxes 0.2 % 3.4 % Provision for income taxes 0.2 % 0.5 % Net income (loss) % 2.9 % Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue increased by $78.6 million , or 21.5% , during the three months ended November 2, 2019 , compared with the same period last year. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a 16.6% increase in active clients from October 27, 2018 , to November 2, 2019 , which drove increased sales of merchandise, and an increase in revenue per active client. Gross margin for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , increased 0.2% compared with the same period last year. The increase was primarily driven by improvements in merchandise costs and operational efficiencies, partially offset by an increase in inventory reserves. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by $46.9 million for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , compared with the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased to 45.3% for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , compared with 42.1% for the three months ended October 27, 2018 . The increase for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , compared with the same period last year, was primarily related to higher compensation and benefits expense and stock-based compensation due to increased headcount as we continued to invest in talent, higher advertising spend year over year to support the growth of our business, and expansion of our fulfillment centers and offices. 21 Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from income for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2019 October 27, 2018 Income before income taxes $ 979 $ 12,416 Provision for income taxes 1,157 1,738 Effective tax rate 118.2 % 14.0 % We are primarily subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended November 2, 2019 , differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to impacts from tax reform, certain nondeductible expenses, tax expense related to employee share-based awards, and state taxes which are offset by the benefit of allowable credits. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , differed from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates in foreign jurisdictions where international expansion expenses are incurred, and certain nondeductible expenses and state taxes, partially offset by the benefits on stock-based compensation deductions and allowable credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity since inception have been our cash flows from operations, as well as the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities and our IPO. We have had positive and growing cash flows from operations since 2014. As of November 2, 2019 , we had raised an aggregate of $169.6 million of equity capital including proceeds from our IPO. We had $151.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and investments of $236.0 million as of November 2, 2019 . Our investment balance includes $145.5 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less as of November 2, 2019 . Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, marketing, and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. We have been able to fund these costs through our cash flows from operations since 2014 and expect to continue to do so. We believe our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated below: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) November 2, 2019 October 27, 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 27,524 $ 50,966 Net cash used in investing activities (46,521 ) (175,778 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (1,694 ) 637 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (20,691 ) $ (124,175 ) Cash provided by operating activities During the three months ended November 2, 2019 , cash provided by operating activities was $27.5 million , which consisted of net loss of $0.2 million , adjusted by non-cash charges of $16.6 million , and a change of $11.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $12.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $4.7 million of depreciation and amortization, and $1.8 million of inventory obsolescence reserves. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $37.9 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity and timing of payments, substantially offset by an increase of $31.8 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth. During the three months ended October 27, 2018 , cash provided by operating activities was $51.0 million , which consisted of net income of $10.7 million , adjusted by non-cash charges of $10.3 million and a change of $30.0 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $6.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $3.2 million of depreciation and amortization, and a $1.1 million increase in deferred tax expense. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $50.4 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business 22 activity, substantially offset by an increase of $23.2 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth. Cash used in investing activities During the three months ended November 2, 2019 , and October 27, 2018 , cash used in investing activities was $46.5 million and $175.8 million , respectively. During the three months ended November 2, 2019 , cash used in investing activities was primarily related to our investment of $67.5 million in highly rated available-for-sale securities and $7.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by maturities of available-for-sale securities of $23.2 million . During the three months ended October 27, 2018 , cash used in investing activities was primarily related to the purchase of securities available-for-sale. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities During the three months ended November 2, 2019 , cash used in financing activities was $1.7 million , which was primarily due to tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended October 27, 2018 , cash provided by financing activities was $0.6 million , primarily due to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Commitments In November 2019, the Company executed an agreement for cloud computing services. The agreement was effective as of November 1, 2019, and continues through October 30, 2022. The Company has a total minimum commitment of $23.5 million with annual commitments ranging from $7.5 million to $8.0 million . There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 3, 2019 (2019 Annual Report). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, other than those discussed in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements related to the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates disclosed in our 2019 Annual Report.