ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited financial statements and related notes thereto for the year ended July 29, 2017, included in the final prospectus for our initial public offering (IPO), dated as of November 16, 2017, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) on November 17, 2017 (File No. 333-221014) (the Final Prospectus). We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending each year on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. Each fiscal year generally consists of four 13-week fiscal quarters, with each fiscal quarter ending on the Saturday that is closest to the last day of the last month of the quarter. The years ended July 30, 2016 and July 29, 2017 included 52 weeks of operations. Throughout this Quarterly Report, all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Quarterly Report, including without limitation, statements in the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, [estimated quantities and net present values of reserves], business strategy, plans and objectives of our management for future operations are forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as believe, will, may, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect, predict, could, potentially or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition, or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, performances or achievements anticipated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. These statements, like all statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, speak only as of their date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. We caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Overview Stitch Fix is transforming the way people find what they love, one client at a time and one Fix at a time. We are reinventing the shopping experience by delivering one-to-one personalization to our clients through the combination of data science and human judgment. This combination drives a better client experience and a more powerful business model than either element could deliver independently. Our stylists hand select items from a broad selection of merchandise. Stylists pair their own judgment with our analysis of client and merchandise data to provide a personalized shipment of apparel, shoes and accessories suited to each clients needs. We call each of these unique shipments a Fix. Our clients may choose to schedule automatic shipments that arrive every two to three weeks or on a monthly, bi-monthly or quarterly cadence, or schedule a Fix on-demand. Clients can increase or decrease their desired Fix frequency at any time, and can select the exact date by which they want to receive a Fix. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items. For each Fix, we charge clients a $20 styling fee that is credited towards the merchandise purchased. If the client chooses to keep all items in a Fix, she receives a 25% discount on her entire purchase. The very human experience that we deliver is powered by data science. Our data science capabilities consist of our rich data set and our proprietary algorithms, which fuel our business by enhancing the client experience and driving business model efficiencies. The vast majority of our client data is provided directly and explicitly by our clients, rather than inferred, scraped or obtained from other sources. We also gather extensive merchandise data, such as inseam, pocket shape, silhouette and fit. This large and growing data set provides the foundation for proprietary algorithms that we use throughout our business, including those that predict purchase behavior, forecast demand, optimize inventory and enable us to design new apparel. We believe our data science capabilities give us a significant competitive advantage, and as our data set grows, our algorithms become more powerful. 14 Our stylists leverage our data science through a custom-built, web-based styling application that provides recommendations from our broad select ion of merchandise. Our stylists then apply their judgment to select what they believe to be the best items for each Fix. Our stylists provide a personal touch, offer styling advice and context to each item selected, and help us develop long-term relations hips with our clients. Our stylists are U.S.-based employees, most of whom work part-time and remotely. We maintain a broad range of product offerings to serve our clients. We offer both merchandise sourced from brand partners and our own Exclusive Brands. We use our data to inform the merchandise we buy and develop that will best suit our clients. We reach clients through a combination of word of mouth, referrals, advertising and other marketing efforts. We invest in marketing with the goal of attracting new clients, improving engagement with current clients and expanding our client closet share over time. As we continue to expand our marketing efforts, we plan to remain disciplined in measuring the return on advertising spend. We believe our success in serving clients has resulted in our rapid and profitable growth. We have achieved positive cash flows from operations on an annual basis since 2014, while continuing to make meaningful investments to drive growth. For the three months ended October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016, we reported $295.6 million and $236.0 million in net revenue, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 25.2%. As of October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016, we had 2,396,000 active clients and 1,847,000 active clients, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 29.7%. Net income for the three months ended October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016 was $13.5 million and $13.2 million, respectively. Included in net income for the three months ended October 28, 2017 is a $9.1 million gain on remeasurement of our preferred stock warrant liability compared to a $1.5 million loss on remeasurement of our preferred stock warrant liability included in net income for the comparable prior year period. In the second quarter of 2018, we will record a gain on remeasurement of our preferred stock warrant liability of $1.6 million to reflect the change in fair value to the date of our IPO. Our preferred stock warrants were automatically exercised into shares of Class B common stock upon the completion of our IPO and, accordingly, there will be no remeasurement gain or loss related to our preferred stock warrants subsequent to the IPO date of November 16, 2017. Key Metrics We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide investors of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. Management believes that excluding certain items that may vary substantially in frequency and magnitude period-to-period from net income (loss) provides useful supplemental measures that assist in evaluating our ability to generate earnings and to more readily compare these metrics between past and future periods. Management also believes that adjusted EBITDA is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that such supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between companies. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. For instance, we do not exclude stock-based compensation expense from adjusted EBITDA or non-GAAP net income (loss). Stock-based compensation is an important part of how we attract and retain our employees, and we consider it to be a real cost of running the business. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: our non-GAAP net income and adjusted EBITDA exclude compensation expense that we recognized related to certain stock sales by current and former employees; our non-GAAP net income and adjusted EBITDA exclude the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability, which is a non-cash expense incurred in the periods prior to the completion of our initial public offering; adjusted EBITDA also excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our tax provision that reduces cash available to us; and free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. 15 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is net income (loss) excluding other (income) expense, net, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability and, when present, compensation expense related to certain stock sales by current and former employees. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation: Net income $ 13,488 $ 13,243 Add (deduct): Other income, net (17 ) (7 ) Provision for income taxes 5,144 11,789 Depreciation and amortization 2,270 1,461 Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (9,071 ) 1,503 Adjusted EBITDA $ 11,814 $ 27,989 Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) Non-GAAP net income (loss) is net income (loss) excluding the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability and, when present, compensation expense related to certain stock sales by current and former employees, and their related tax impacts, if any. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-GAAP net income (loss) for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Non-GAAP net income (loss) reconciliation: Net income $ 13,488 $ 13,243 Add (deduct): Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (9,071 ) 1,503 Non-GAAP net income $ 4,417 $ 14,746 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by purchases of property and equipment which is included in cash flow from investing activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Free cash flow reconciliation: Cash flows from operating activities $ 24,791 $ 41,604 Deduct: Purchase of property and equipment (4,180 ) (5,478 ) Free cash flow $ 20,611 $ 36,126 Cash flows from investing activities $ (4,180 ) $ (5,447 ) Cash flows from financing activities $ (123 ) $ 206 16 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix in the preceding 12-month period, measured as of the last date of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We had 2,396,000 and 1,847,000 active clients as of October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 29.7%. Factors Affecting Our Performance Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage them. We believe that implementing broad-based marketing strategies that increase our brand awareness has the potential to strengthen Stitch Fix as a national consumer brand, help us acquire new clients and drive revenue growth. As our business has achieved a greater scale and we are able to support a large and growing client base, we have increased our investments in marketing to take advantage of more marketing channels to profitably acquire clients. For example, we recently significantly increased our advertising spend, from $15.3 million in the three-month period ended October 29, 2016 to $28.2 million in the three-month period ended October 28, 2017, to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to make significant marketing investments to grow our business. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization and keyword search campaigns. To successfully acquire clients and increase engagement, we must also continue to improve the diversity of our offering. These efforts may include broadening our brand partnerships and expanding into new categories, product types, price points and geographies. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure To grow our client base and enhance our offering, we will incur additional expenses. We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to inform investments in operations and infrastructure. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as we continue to hire additional personnel and further advance our technological and data science capabilities. Moreover, we intend to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment centers and office space and logistics infrastructure as we launch new categories, expand internationally and drive operating efficiencies. We expect to increase our spending on these investments in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our client base or be cost-effective. However, we believe these strategies will yield positive returns in the long term. Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new categories or adding new fulfillment centers will require additional investments in inventory. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes and accessories across categories, brands, product types and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens and Plus. We also carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Exclusive Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. While changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin to date, categories, brands, product types and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Exclusive Brands have generally contributed higher margin, and shoes have generally contributed lower margin. Shifts in merchandise mix driven by client demand may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. 17 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise. We charge a $20 nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is applied against any merchandise purchased in the Fix. We deduct discounts, sales tax and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout report. We expect our revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business, although our revenue growth rate may continue to slow in future periods. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for shipping to and from clients and inbound freight, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees and packaging materials costs. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense, for our employees including our stylist, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, client experience, marketing and corporate personnel. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs and depreciation and amortization expense. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue due to the anticipated growth of our business, increased marketing investments and additional costs associated with becoming a public company. Our classification of selling, general and administrative expenses may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Remeasurement of Preferred Stock Warrant Liability We estimate the fair value of the preferred stock warrant liability at the end of each reporting period and recognize changes in the fair value through our statement of operations. In connection with our initial public offering, all warrants were automatically exercised for no consideration, so we will not have preferred stock warrant liability in future periods. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists of an estimate of federal and state income taxes based on enacted federal and state tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended $ % October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Change Change Revenue, net $ 295,563 $ 236,004 $ 59,559 25.2 % Cost of goods sold 166,548 125,926 40,622 32.3 % Gross profit 129,015 110,078 18,937 17.2 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 119,471 83,550 35,921 43.0 % Operating income 9,544 26,528 (16,984 ) (64.0 )% Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (9,071 ) 1,503 (10,574 ) (703.5 )% Other income, net (17 ) (7 ) (10 ) 142.9 % Income before income taxes 18,632 25,032 (6,400 ) (25.6 )% Provision for income taxes 5,144 11,789 (6,645 ) (56.4 )% Net income (loss) $ 13,488 $ 13,243 $ 245 1.9 % 18 The following table sets forth the components of our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 56.3 % 53.4 % Gross Profit 43.7 % 46.6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 40.5 % 35.4 % Operating income 3.2 % 11.2 % Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability -3.1 % 0.6 % Other income, net 0.0 % 0.0 % Income before income taxes 6.3 % 10.6 % Provision for income taxes 1.7 % 5.0 % Net income 4.6 % 5.6 % Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue increased by $59.6 million, or 25.2%, from $236.0 million during the three months ended October 29, 2016, to $295.6 million during the three months ended October 28, 2017. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a 29.7% increase in active clients, which drove increased sales of merchandise. Gross margin decreased by 2.9%, from 46.6% during the three months ended October 29, 2016, to 43.7% during the three months ended October 28, 2017. The decrease for the period was primarily attributable to an increase in merchandise and shipping costs and inventory obsolescence reserves as we expanded into new categories such as Plus and Mens, combined with the impact of increased clearance and shrink year over year. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $35.9 million, or 43.0%, from $83.6 million during the three months ended October 29, 2016, to $119.5 million during the three months ended October 28, 2017. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $12.9 million increase in advertising expense as we expanded our television and online advertising initiatives and a $13.8 million increase in compensation and benefits costs as we increased our headcount over the last year. Remeasurement of Preferred Stock Warrant Liability The change in the preferred stock warrant liability was due to a change in the underlying fair value of our preferred stock. Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Income before income taxes $ 18,632 $ 25,032 Provisions for income taxes 5,144 11,789 Effective tax rate 27.6 % 47.1 % We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 28, 2017 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to certain nondeductible expenses, effect of state taxes, partially offset by the benefit from the nonincludible gain on remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 29, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to certain nondeductible expenses, effect of state taxes, and the nondeductible loss on remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability. 19 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity since inception have been our cash flows from operations, as well as the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities. As of October 28, 2017, we had raised $42.5 million of equity capital in aggregate with our last round of financing completed in 2014. We have had positive and growing cash flows from operations since 2014. As of October 28, 2017, we had $131.1 million of cash. In addition, we had restricted cash of $9.4 million as of October 28, 2017, representing collateral for letters of credit for our leased properties. On November 16, 2017, our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-221014) related to our IPO, of our Class A common stock was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Pursuant to the Registration Statement, in November 2017 we sold 8,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock at a price of $15.00 per share for net proceeds of $110.4 million after deducting $6.2 million of underwriting discounts and $3.4 million in offering costs. In December 2017, we issued an additional 1,175,557 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $15.00 per share following the underwriters exercise of their option to purchase additional shares and received proceeds of $16.7 million, net of underwriting discounts. Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, marketing and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. We have been able to fund these costs through our cash flows from operations since 2014 and expect to continue to do so. We believe our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated and our cash and working capital balances as of the end of the period (in thousands): Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 October 29, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 24,791 $ 41,604 Net cash used in investing activities (4,180 ) (5,447 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (123 ) 206 Net increase in cash and restricted cash $ 20,488 $ 36,363 Cash provided by operating activities During the three months ended October 28, 2017, cash provided by operating activities was $24.8 million, which consisted of net income of $13.5 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $1.8 million and a change of $13.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $9.1 million related to the remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability partially offset by a $4.2 million increase in our inventory reserve, $2.3 million of depreciation and amortization and a $2.0 million of stock-based compensation expense. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $30.9 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to the increased business activity, and a decrease of $4.1 million in prepaid and other assets due to timing of payments partially offset by an increase of $24.2 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth . During the three months ended October 29, 2016 , cash provided by operating activities was $41.6 million, which consisted of net income of $13.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $4.9 million and a change of $23.5 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $1.5 million related to the remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability, a $1.9 million increase in our inventory reserve, $1.5 million of depreciation and amortization. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $28.8 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, an increase of $2.2 million in deferred revenue and an increase of $2.7 million in other liabilities. These changes were partially offset by an increase of $10.1 million in our inventory balance. 20 Cash used in investing activities During the three months ended October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016, cash used in investing activities was $4.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively, due to the purchase of property and equipment primarily related to the expansion of our fulfillment centers and offices as well as continued investment in our proprietary systems. Cash (used in) provided by financing activities During the three months ended October 28, 2017, cash used in financing activities was $0.1 million, which was primarily due to $0.5 million related to payment of deferred offering costs, partially offset by $0.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended October 29, 2016 , cash provided by financing activities was $0.2 million, which was primarily due to proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in the Final Prospectus. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates disclosed in the Final Prospectus.