ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2022 Annual Report) for the year ended July 30, 2022, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 21, 2022. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. Each fiscal year typically consists of four 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal year ending July 29, 2023, and the fiscal year ended July 30, 2022, include 52 weeks of operations. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans, and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Since our founding in 2011, we have helped millions of women, men, and kids discover and buy what they love through personalized shipments of apparel, shoes, and accessories. Currently, clients can engage with us in one of two ways that, combined, form an ecosystem of personalized experiences across styling, shopping, and inspiration: (1) by receiving a personalized shipment of items informed by our algorithms and sent by a Stitch Fix stylist (a Fix); or (2) by purchasing directly from our website or mobile app based on a personalized assortment of outfit and item recommendations (Freestyle). For a Fix, clients can choose to schedule automatic shipments or order on demand after they fill out a style profile on our website or mobile app. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any. Freestyle utilizes our algorithms to recommend a personalized assortment of outfit and item recommendations that will update throughout the day and will continue to evolve as we learn more about the client. For the three months ended October 29, 2022, we reported $455.6 million in net revenue, representing a year-over-year decline of 21.6% from the three months ended October 30, 2021. As of October 29, 2022, and October 30, 2021, we had 3,709,000 and 4,180,000 active clients, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 11.3%. During fiscal 2022, we experienced a decline in net revenue year-over-year primarily due to our challenges in acquiring new clients. This trend has continued in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, and we expect these challenges in acquiring active clients to have a negative compounding effect on net revenue in fiscal 2023. We are continuing to navigate the uncertainties presented by the current macroeconomic environment and remain focused on retaining current clients, improving the conversion of new clients, and enhancing our overall client experience for new and existing clients. Net loss for the three months ended October 29, 2022, was $55.9 million, compared to a net loss of $1.8 million for the three months ended October 30, 2021. We announced a restructuring plan on June 9, 2022, to reduce our future fixed and variable operating costs and allow us to centralize key capabilities, strengthen decision-making to drive efficiencies, and ensure we are allocating resources to our most critical priorities. This restructuring plan reduced our workforce by approximately 15% of salaried positions and represented approximately 4% of our roles in total. In connection with the restructuring plan, we incurred $0.9 million in restructuring costs in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. We also incurred other one-time cash charges related to retention bonuses for continuing employees of $5.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. 18 We are continuing to evaluate other fixed and variable operating costs, including rationalizing our real estate footprint and further optimizing and being disciplined in our marketing strategy to better position ourselves for profitability. However, our future results of operations will depend on our ability to successfully navigate current business challenges and the overall macroeconomic environment. For more information on the components of net loss for the three months ended October 29, 2022, refer to the section titled Results of Operations below. Key Financial and Operating Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between companies. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: adjusted EBITDA excludes interest income and other expense, net, as these items are not components of our core business; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our provision for income taxes, which may increase or decrease cash available to us; adjusted EBITDA excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; adjusted EBITDA excludes the non-cash expense of stock-based compensation, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, an important part of how we attract and retain our employees and a significant recurring expense in our business; and adjusted EBITDA excludes costs incurred related to discrete restructuring plans and other one-time costs that are fundamentally different in strategic nature and frequency from ongoing initiatives. We believe exclusion of these items facilitates a more consistent comparison of operating performance over time, however these costs do include cash outflows; free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. 19 Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net loss excluding interest income, other expense, net, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and restructuring and other one-time costs. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Net loss $ (55,918) $ (1,827) Add (deduct): Interest income (773) (334) Other expense, net 1,284 109 Provision for income taxes 277 202 Depreciation and amortization 9,840 7,740 Stock-based compensation expense 31,714 32,323 Restructuring and other one-time costs (1) 6,155 Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,421) $ 38,213 (1) Restructuring charges consist of $0.9 million in severance and employee-related benefits. Other one-time costs consists of $5.3 million in retention bonuses for continuing employees. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flows (used in) provided by operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flows used in investing activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of cash flows provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Free cash flow reconciliation: Cash flows (used in) provided by operating activities $ (10,048) $ 141,656 Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment (6,143) (16,392) Free cash flow $ (16,191) $ 125,264 Cash flows used in investing activities $ (2,257) $ (7,537) Cash flows used in financing activities $ (3,870) $ (13,698) Operating Metrics October 29, 2022 July 30, 2022 April 30, 2022 January 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Active clients (in thousands) 3,709 3,795 3,907 4,019 4,180 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix or was shipped an item via Freestyle in the preceding 52 weeks, measured as of the last day of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Womens, Mens, or Kids account as a client, even if they share the same household. We had 3,709,000 and 4,180,000 active clients as of October 29, 2022, and October 30, 2021, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 11.3%. The decline in net active clients is largely due to higher lapsed clients, which we believe is a result of the macroeconomic environment. 20 Net Revenue per Active Client We believe that net revenue per active client is an indicator of client engagement and satisfaction. We calculate net revenue per active client based on net revenue over the preceding four fiscal quarters divided by the number of active clients, measured as of the last day of the period. Net revenue per active client was $525 and $524 as of October 29, 2022, and October 30, 2021, respectively, or approximately flat year over year. Although net revenue per active client is approximately flat year over year, we have observed clients spending less in recent periods, and we expect this to continue given the economic backdrop and the deep discounting we are seeing in the retail industry. Factors Affecting Our Performance Macroeconomic Environment Our business and operating results are subject to national and global economic conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending. As the macroeconomic environment is experiencing inflation, rising interest rates, recessionary concerns, tightening labor markets, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment, we have seen and expect to continue to see negative impacts on consumer confidence and consumer demand. As this challenging and uncertain economic environment continues, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business. Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. Consistent with the trends in the second half of fiscal 2022, supply chain constraints and delays have continued to ease during the three months ended October 29, 2022, and the timing and amount of inventory receipts were not impacted by supply chain delays. As such, we are no longer ordering product in advance of our typical timelines and we expect inventory levels to normalize in the second half of fiscal 2023. Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage them. We believe that implementing broad-based marketing strategies that increase our brand awareness has the potential to strengthen Stitch Fix as a national consumer brand, help us acquire new clients, and drive revenue growth. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, campaigns with celebrities and influencers, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. Our marketing expenses have varied from period to period and we expect this trend to continue. We are evolving our marketing strategy and intend to reduce marketing spend for the remainder of fiscal 2023. The largest component of our marketing spend is advertising, which was $41.6 million or 9.1% of net revenue for the three months ended October 29, 2022, compared to $50.7 million or 8.7% of net revenue for the three months ended October 30, 2021. We must also continue to improve the diversity of our offerings to successfully acquire clients and increase engagement. These efforts may include broadening our brand partnerships and expanding into new categories, product types, price points, and geographies. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure To grow our client base and enhance our offering, we will incur additional expenses. We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to make targeted investments in technology and product. In fiscal 2023, we plan to prioritize investments with near-term positive returns. 21 Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across categories, brands, product types, and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Exclusive Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry, and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. Historically, changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin; however, categories, brands, product types, and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Exclusive Brands have generally contributed higher margins than our third-party brands, which have generally contributed lower margins. We continue to evolve our merchandise mix to improve the client experience and attract new active clients. Shifts in merchandise mix, particularly if we increase the number of third-party brands we offer, will result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise, either through our Fix or Freestyle offerings. With our Fix offering, we charge a nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased. We offer Style Pass to provide select U.S. clients with an alternative to paying a styling fee per Fix. Style Pass clients pay a nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. We deduct discounts, sales tax, and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout this Quarterly Report. We also recognize revenue resulting from estimated breakage income on gift cards. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for inbound freight and shipping to and from clients, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees, and packaging materials costs, offset by the recoverable cost of merchandise estimated to be returned. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense, for our employees including our stylists, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, marketing, client experience, and corporate personnel. Selling, general, and administrative expenses also include marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. As a result of our restructuring and cost reduction actions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we expect SG&A in fiscal 2023 to decrease year over year. Our classification of selling, general, and administrative expenses may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists of an estimate of federal, state, and international income taxes based on enacted federal, state, and international tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, and changes in the valuation of our net federal and state deferred tax assets. 22 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 29, 2022, and October 30, 2021 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) October 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Change Revenue, net $ 455,593 $ 581,244 (21.6) % Cost of goods sold 263,832 308,327 (14.4) % Gross profit 191,761 272,917 (29.7) % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 246,891 274,767 (10.1) % Operating loss (55,130) (1,850) * Interest income 773 334 131.4 % Other expense, net (1,284) (109) * Loss before income taxes (55,641) (1,625) * Provision for income taxes 277 202 37.1 % Net loss $ (55,918) $ (1,827) * * Not meaningful The following table sets forth the components of our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: For the Three Months Ended October 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 57.9 % 53.0 % Gross margin 42.1 % 47.0 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 54.2 % 47.3 % Operating loss (12.1) % (0.3) % Interest income 0.2 % 0.1 % Other expense, net (0.3) % % Loss before income taxes (12.2) % (0.3) % Provision for income taxes 0.1 % % Net loss (12.3) % (0.3) % Note: Due to rounding, percentages in this table may not sum to totals. Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue decreased by $125.7 million or 21.6% during the three months ended October 29, 2022, compared to the same period last year, due primarily to a 11.3% decline in active clients from October 30, 2021 to October 29, 2022, which led to a decrease in sales of merchandise. Additionally, we observed clients spending less in recent periods, and we expect this to continue given the economic backdrop and the deep discounting we are seeing in the retail industry. Gross margin for the three months ended October 29, 2022, decreased by 490 basis points compared to the same period last year, which was primarily driven by higher clearance rates, product costs, and transportation costs. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses SG&A decreased by $27.9 million for the three months ended October 29, 2022, compared with the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A increased to 54.2% for the three months ended October 29, 2022, compared with 47.3% for the three months ended October 30, 2021. The increase in SG&A margin for the three months ended October 29, 2022, compared with the same period last year, was primarily related to higher compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of revenue, including higher stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue, primarily due to investments in technology talent. 23 Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from income for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Loss before income taxes $ (55,641) $ (1,625) Provision for income taxes 277 202 Effective tax rate (0.5) % (12.4) % We are primarily subject to income taxes in the United States and the United Kingdom. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 29, 2022, differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. The tax provision for the three months ended October 29, 2022, is primarily comprised of state taxes and income taxes in foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 30, 2021, differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal source of liquidity is our cash, cash equivalents, and cash flows from operations. As of October 29, 2022, we had $113.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $95.4 million of investments. Our investment balance includes $90.0 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less as of October 29, 2022. We are party to a $100.0 million amended and restated credit agreement, entered into June 2, 2021 and amended on July 29, 2022 (the Amended Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank and other lenders. The Amended Credit Agreement includes a letter of credit sub-facility of $30.0 million and a swingline sub-facility of up to $40.0 million. As of October 29, 2022, we did not have any borrowings outstanding on the revolving line of credit under the Amended Credit Agreement and we had $82.2 million in borrowing capacity as reduced by outstanding letters of credit. Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement and any hedging or cash management agreements entered into with any lender thereunder are secured by substantially all of our current and future property, rights, and assets, including, but not limited to, cash, goods, equipment, contractual rights, financial assets, and intangible assets. The Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants limiting the ability to, among other things, dispose of assets, undergo a change in control, merge or consolidate, make acquisitions, incur debt, incur liens, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make investments, in each case subject to certain exceptions. The Amended Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain minimum free cash flow and an adjusted current ratio above specified levels, measured in each case at the end of each fiscal quarter. The Amended Credit Agreement contains events of default that include, among others, non-payment of principal, interest, or fees, breach of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, and material judgments. For information on the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement, please see Credit Agreement in Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Uses of Cash Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, lease obligations, compensation and benefits, marketing, and other expenditures necessary to support our business. We may also use cash to repurchase shares of our common stock. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and the borrowing available under our Amended Credit Agreement, if needed, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond. Share Repurchases In January 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $150.0 million of our outstanding Class A common stock, with no expiration date (the 2022 Repurchase Program). We may repurchase shares from 24 time to time through open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased in the future will be determined by the Company in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including price, trading volume, market conditions, and other general business conditions. Repurchases will be funded from the Companys existing cash and cash equivalents or future cash flow. The repurchase program may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time. During the three months ended October 29, 2022, the Company made no repurchases of Class A common stock. As of October 29, 2022, the Company has repurchased 2,302,141 shares of Class A common stock for $30.0 million under the 2022 Repurchase Program. We had $120.0 million remaining in share repurchase capacity as of October 29, 2022. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated below: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 29, 2022 October 30, 2021 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (10,048) $ 141,656 Net cash used in investing activities (2,257) (7,537) Net cash used in financing activities (3,870) (13,698) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,414) (529) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (17,589) $ 119,892 Cash provided by operating activities During the three months ended October 29, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $10.0 million, which consisted of a net loss of $55.9 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $42.4 million and a change of $3.5 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $31.7 million of stock-based compensation expense and $10.2 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a cash inflow of $26.6 million from income tax refunds, substantially offset by an increase of $23.8 million in gross inventory balances. During the three months ended October 30, 2021, cash provided by operating activities was $141.7 million, which consisted of a net loss of $1.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $36.9 million and by a change of $106.6 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $32.3 million of stock-based compensation expense and $8.3 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $71.5 million in our accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity and timing of payments and a change of $30.8 million in our inventory balance primarily due to a decline in inventory receipts from global supply chain delays. Cash used in investing activities During the three months ended October 29, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $2.3 million. This was primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $6.1 million, partially offset by sales of available-for-sale securities of $4.1 million. During the three months ended October 30, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $7.5 million. This was primarily due to maturities and sales of available-for-sale securities of $59.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, substantially offset by our investment of $52.4 million in available-for-sale securities and purchases of property and equipment of $16.4 million. Cash used in financing activities During the three months ended October 29, 2022, cash used in financing activities was $3.9 million. This was primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units. During the three months ended October 30, 2021, cash used in financing activities was $13.7 million primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents During the three months ended October 29, 2022, foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $1.4 million on cash on cash equivalents. The negative impact on cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the British pound sterling to the U.S. dollar. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our 2022 Annual Report. 25 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as disclosed in our 2022 Annual Report.