ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 1, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 25, 2020. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. Each fiscal year typically consists of four 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal year ending July 31, 2021, and the fiscal year ended August 1, 2020, include 52 weeks of operations. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans, and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Since our founding in 2011, we have helped millions of men, women, and kids discover and buy what they love through personalized shipments of apparel, shoes, and accessories, hand-selected by Stitch Fix stylists and delivered to our clients homes. We call each of these shipments a Fix. Clients can choose to schedule automatic shipments or order a Fix on demand after they fill out a style profile on our website or mobile app. For each Fix, we charge clients a styling fee that is credited toward items they purchase. Alternatively, select U.S. clients may purchase an annual Style Pass, which offers unlimited styling for the year for a $49 fee that is also credited towards items they purchase. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any, at no additional charge. In addition, our Extras feature allows clients to select items such as socks, bras, underwear, and other intimates that are then added to the items their stylist selects for their Fix. In May 2019, we launched our service in the UK. In June 2019, we launched direct-buy functionality to allow clients the flexibility of purchasing items outside of a Fix. The first offering of this direct-buy functionality is Buy It Again, which is available for Mens and Womens clients in the United States and allows clients to order previously purchased items in different colors, sizes, or prints. In February 2020, we launched Complete Your Looks, which presents clients a personalized set of algorithmically generated items for direct purchase based on items they have already bought from us, and in June 2020, we introduced Trending For You, which allows Mens and Womens clients to shop personalized looks based on their style profiles. No styling fee is charged for direct purchases. For the three months ended October 31, 2020, we reported $490.4 million in net revenue, representing year-over-year growth of 10.3% from the three months ended November 2, 2019. As of October 31, 2020, and November 2, 2019, we had 3,763,000 and 3,416,000 active clients, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 10.2%. Net income for the three months ended October 31, 2020, was $9.5 million compared to a net loss for three months ended November 2, 2019, of $0.2 million. For more information on the components of net income (loss), refer to the section titled Results of Operations below. 19 COVID-19 Update We are closely monitoring the effects of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak, which was declared a global pandemic in March 2020, and its impact on our business, particularly in light of the recent rise in cases. The full impact of the COVID-19 crisis impact on our business will depend on factors such as the length of time the pandemic; how federal, state and local governments are responding; the impact of the crisis on the economy and consumer behavior; and the effect on our clients, employees, vendors, and other partners. During this time, we are focused on protecting the health and safety of our employees and clients, while seeking to continue operating our business responsibly. All of our employees who are able to work remotely are required to do so, and we have provided additional paid time off to those employees who are not able to work remotely. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we temporarily closed three of our eight fulfillment centers to assess our ability to operate under shelter-in-place orders and develop protocols to protect the welfare of our warehouse employees. Those centers have since reopened, and all eight fulfillment centers are currently operating with safety measures in place, including social distancing, health screening, enhanced cleaning protocols, and protective equipment such as masks and gloves for employees. Due to the temporary closure of three of our eight fulfillment centers, we had significantly less capacity in our warehouses during the third quarter of fiscal 2020, which resulted in delayed Fix shipments, delayed return processing, extended wait times for our clients, and significant inventory management challenges. These factors were the principal causes of our decline in revenue and gross margin during the third quarter of fiscal 2020. Our warehouse capacity constraints were more acute during March of 2020, but steadily improved during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2020, and continued to operate at higher capacity levels during the first fiscal quarter of 2021. The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the broader economy and consumer behavior continues to evolve. During the latter half of our third fiscal quarter of 2020, we did experience lower demand, which negatively affected net revenue per active client, and which we believe was largely attributable to consumer reactions as the COVID-19 crisis escalated during March and April. We saw some positive client demand signals during this time, including with our auto-ship clients and continued growth of our direct buy offering; however, we saw some softness in new client acquisition in part because we reduced our marketing spend in reaction to the COVID-19 crisis. By pulling back on client acquisition in our third fiscal quarter, we recognized that this would also impact demand in subsequent quarters given most clients repeat purchase behavior. Despite the continuing impact of COVID-19 on the overall economy, during our fourth fiscal quarter of 2020, we saw strong retention from our auto-ship clients and growth in new client demand from increases in first Fix shipments. We continued to see growth in new client demand and strong auto-ship retention during the first fiscal quarter of 2021 and believe we are benefiting from the dislocation in the retail apparel market that is resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. For further discussion of the COVID-19 related risks facing our business, refer to the Risk Factors section included in Part II, Item 1A. Although we are experiencing unprecedented challenges during this global health crisis, we continue to focus on our long-term growth and strategies that capture the changing ways people shop. While we cannot reasonably estimate the long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that our business model positions us to emerge from this crisis with a structural advantage and new opportunities to increase market share. Key Financial and Operating Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between companies. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: adjusted EBITDA excludes interest (income) expense and other (income) expense, net, as these items are not components of our core business; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our tax provision, which reduces cash available to us; 20 adjusted EBITDA excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; adjusted EBITDA excludes the non-cash expense of stock-based compensation, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, an important part of how we attract and retain our employees and a significant recurring expense in our business; and free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) excluding interest (income) expense, provision (benefit) for income taxes, other (income) expense, net, depreciation and amortization, and stock-based compensation expense. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 31, 2020 November 2, 2019 Net income (loss) $ 9,541 $ (178) Add (deduct): Interest (income) expense (1,161) (1,653) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (28,118) 1,157 Other (income) expense, net 205 834 Depreciation and amortization 6,459 4,966 Stock-based compensation expense 19,925 12,126 Adjusted EBITDA $ 6,851 $ 17,252 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 31, 2020 November 2, 2019 Free cash flow reconciliation: Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities $ 57,359 $ 27,524 Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment (5,985) (7,502) Free cash flow $ 51,374 $ 20,022 Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities $ 1,701 $ (46,521) Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,896) $ (1,694) Operating Metrics October 31, 2020 August 1, 2020 May 2, 2020 February 1, 2020 November 2, 2019 Active clients (in thousands) 3,763 3,522 3,418 3,465 3,416 Net revenue per active client (1) $ 467 $ 486 $ 498 $ 501 $ 485 (1) Fiscal year 2019 was a 53-week year, with the extra week occurring in the quarter ended August 3, 2019. Therefore, net revenue per active client for each quarter ended May 2, 2020, February 1, 2020, and November 2, 2019, include the impact of the extra week of revenue. 21 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix or was shipped an item using our direct-buy functionality in the preceding 52 weeks, measured as of the last day of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Mens, Womens, or Kids account as a client, even if they share the same household. We had 3,763,000 and 3,416,000 active clients as of October 31, 2020, and November 2, 2019, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 10.2%. Net Revenue per Active Client We believe that net revenue per active client is an indicator of client engagement and satisfaction. We calculate net revenue per active client based on net revenue over the preceding four fiscal quarters divided by the number of active clients, measured as of the last day of the period. Net revenue per active client was $467 and $485 as of October 31, 2020, and November 2, 2019, respectively, representing a year-over-year decline of 3.7%. We attribute this year-over-year decline in net revenue per active client to recent increases in new active clients. Large numbers of recently added clients have, on average, less purchase history during the prior twelve months as they are new to our service. Therefore, their contribution to the net revenue per active client calculation has a dilutive effect. We expect future periods with large new active client adds may have a similar impact on net revenue per active client. In addition, the trailing four quarter calculation as of October 31, 2020, reflects our third fiscal quarter of 2020 results, which were impacted by COVID-19-related capacity constraints. Factors Affecting Our Performance Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, in the first half of fiscal 2020, we purchased inventory based on our pre-COVID-19 pandemic projections, which resulted in excess inventory levels and higher inventory reserves during our third fiscal quarter of 2020. As noted above, in March 2020, we temporarily closed three of our eight fulfillment centers resulting in significantly less capacity in our warehouses and in turn delayed Fix shipments and a substantial backlog, delayed return processing, extended wait times for our clients, and significant inventory management challenges. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we increased capacity at our fulfillment centers and we experienced an uptick in client demand, both of which contributed to healthier inventory levels and lower inventory reserves. Additionally, entering new locations such as the UK, expanding to new categories such as Stitch Fix Kids, offering new functionalities such as direct buy, or adding new fulfillment centers will all require additional investments in inventory. Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage them. We believe that implementing broad-based marketing strategies that increase our brand awareness has the potential to strengthen Stitch Fix as a national consumer brand, help us acquire new clients, and drive revenue growth. As our business has achieved a greater scale and we are able to support a large and growing client base, we have increased our investments in marketing to take advantage of more marketing channels to efficiently acquire clients. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. While we expect to continue to make significant marketing investments to grow our business in the long run, our marketing expenses may vary from period to period. Our advertising spend was $51.4 million for the three months ended October 31, 2020, and $50.7 million for the three months ended November 2, 2019. To successfully acquire clients and increase engagement, we must also continue to improve the diversity of our offering. These efforts may include broadening our brand partnerships and expanding into new categories, product types, price points, and geographies. For example, in July 2018 we launched Stitch Fix Kids, expanding our client and vendor base, and in May 2019, we launched our services in the UK, expanding our geographic scope. In June 2019, we introduced direct-buy functionality to clients in the United States and, over the next several months, expanded direct buy with the launch of new offerings. We started with Buy It Again, allowing clients to buy previously purchased items in new colors, prints, and sizes. Then, in February 2020, 22 we launched Complete Your Looks, which presents clients a personalized set of algorithmically generated items for direct purchase based on items they have already bought from us. In June 2020, we introduced Trending For You, which allows Mens and Womens clients to shop personalized looks based on their style profiles. Most recently, in November 2020, we launched a beta of our next direct-buy offering, Shop by Category, which uses the data a client shares with us to create a highly personalized digital shopping feed for that client based on their category preferences. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure To grow our client base and enhance our offering, we will incur additional expenses. We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to inform investments in operations and infrastructure. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as we continue to hire additional personnel and further advance our technological and data science capabilities. Moreover, we intend to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment centers, and office space and logistics infrastructure as we launch new categories, expand internationally, and drive operating efficiencies. For example, in November 2020, we entered into an agreement to lease approximately 700,000 square feet of space to be used as a new fulfillment center in Salt Lake City, Utah. We expect to increase our spending on these investments in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our client base or be cost-effective. However, we believe these strategies will yield positive returns in the long term. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across categories, brands, product types, and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Exclusive Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry, and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. While changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin to date, categories, brands, product types, and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Exclusive Brands have generally contributed higher margins, shoes have generally contributed lower margins, and newer categories, such as Kids, tend to initially have lower margins. Shifts in merchandise mix driven by client demand may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise. We charge a nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased in the Fix. We deduct discounts, sales tax, and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout the report. We offer Style Pass to provide select U.S. clients with an alternative to paying a styling fee per Fix. Style Pass clients pay a nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. To a lesser extent, we also recognize revenue resulting from direct purchases and estimated breakage income on gift cards. We expect our revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business, although our revenue growth rate may slow in future periods. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for shipping to and from clients and inbound freight, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees, and packaging materials costs, offset by the recoverable cost of merchandise estimated to be returned. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense for our employees including our stylists, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, marketing, client experience, and corporate personnel. Selling, general, and administrative expenses also include marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. We expect our selling, general, and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue due to the anticipated growth of our business, and increased marketing investments. Our classification of selling, general, and administrative expenses may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. 23 Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Our provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of an estimate of federal, state, and international income taxes based on enacted federal, state, and international tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, and changes in the valuation of our net federal and state deferred tax assets. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 31, 2020, and November 2, 2019 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) October 31, 2020 November 2, 2019 Change Revenue, net $ 490,423 $ 444,815 10.3 % Cost of goods sold 270,972 243,513 11.3 % Gross profit 219,451 201,302 9.0 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 238,984 201,142 18.8 % Operating income (loss) (19,533) 160 * Interest (income) expense (1,161) (1,653) (29.8) % Other (income) expense, net 205 834 (75.4) % Income (loss) before income taxes (18,577) 979 * Provision (benefit) for income taxes (28,118) 1,157 * Net income (loss) $ 9,541 $ (178) * * Not meaningful The following table sets forth the components of our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: For the Three Months Ended October 31, 2020 November 2, 2019 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 55.3 % 54.7 % Gross margin 44.7 % 45.3 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 48.7 % 45.3 % Operating income (loss) (4.0) % % Interest (income) expense (0.2) % (0.4) % Other (income) expense, net % 0.2 % Income (loss) before income taxes (3.8) % 0.2 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes (5.7) % 0.2 % Net income (loss) 1.9 % % Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue increased by $45.6 million, or 10.3%, during the three months ended October 31, 2020, compared with the same period last year. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a 10.2% increase in active clients from November 2, 2019, to October 31, 2020, which drove increased sales of merchandise. Gross margin for the three months ended October 31, 2020, decreased by 60 basis points compared with the same period last year. The decrease was primarily driven by higher shipping expense due to an increased mix of direct buy orders and higher rates with our carriers, partially offset by lower inventory reserves and clearance rates. 24 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by $37.8 million for the three months ended October 31, 2020, compared with the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased to 48.7% for the three months ended October 31, 2020, compared with 45.3% for the three months ended November 2, 2019. The increase for the three months ended October 31, 2020, compared with the same period last year, was primarily related to higher compensation and benefits expense and stock-based compensation due to increased headcount as we continued to invest in talent and higher marketing expenses year over year to support the growth of our business. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from income for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 31, 2020 November 2, 2019 Income (loss) before income taxes $ (18,577) $ 979 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (28,118) 1,157 Effective tax rate 151.4 % 118.2 % Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 31, 2020, differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the net operating loss carryback provisions of the CARES Act, partially offset by certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended November 2, 2019, differed from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to impacts from tax reform, certain nondeductible expenses, tax expense related to employee share-based awards, and state taxes which are offset by the benefit of allowable credits. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity since inception have been our cash flows from operations, as well as the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities and our initial public offering in 2017. Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, marketing, and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. As of October 31, 2020, we had $200.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $229.6 million of investments. Our investment balance includes $188.0 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less as of October 31, 2020. In June 2020, we entered into a $90.0 million credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank and other lenders. The Credit Agreement will terminate on June 2, 2021. The Credit Agreement includes a letter of credit sub-facility of $20.0 million and a swingline sub-facility of up to $50.0 million. Though we continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic closely, the situation is changing rapidly and the extent and duration of the pandemic's impact on our business remains uncertain. Our liquidity and working capital needs could be negatively impacted. However, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investment balances, and the borrowing available under our senior revolving credit facility, if needed, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated below: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 31, 2020 November 2, 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 57,359 $ 27,524 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,701 (46,521) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (1,896) (1,694) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 57,164 $ (20,691) 25 Cash provided by (used in) operating activities During the three months ended October 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities was $57.4 million, which consisted of net income of $9.5 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $25.8 million and by a change of $22.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $19.9 million of stock-based compensation expense and $7.0 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $76.8 million in our accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity and timing of payments. This was partially offset by a change of $30.7 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth and a change of $28.3 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to an increase in federal tax receivables. During the three months ended November 2, 2019, cash provided by operating activities was $27.5 million, which consisted of net loss of $0.2 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $16.6 million, and a change of $11.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $12.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $4.7 million of depreciation and amortization, and $1.8 million of inventory obsolescence reserves. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $37.9 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity and timing of payments, substantially offset by an increase of $31.8 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth. Cash (provided by) used in investing activities During the three months ended October 31, 2020, cash provided by investing activities was $1.7 million. This was primarily due to maturities and sales of available-for-sale securities of $32.8 million and $16.2 million, respectively, substantially offset by our investment of $41.3 million in highly rated available-for-sale securities and $6.0 million in purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended November 2, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $46.5 million, which was primarily due to our investment of $67.5 million in highly rated available-for-sale securities and $7.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by maturities of available-for-sale securities of $23.2 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities During the three months ended October 31, 2020, and November 2, 2019, cash used in financing activities was $1.9 million and $1.7 million, respectively, which was primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments In November 2020, we entered into an agreement to lease approximately 700,000 square feet of space to be used as a fulfillment center in Salt Lake City, Utah. We expect to classify this lease as an operating lease, with a commencement date of late fiscal 2021 or early fiscal 2022. The lease expires in 2030 and we expect to record fixed operating lease costs of approximately $33.1 million over the life of the lease. There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 1, 2020 (2020 Annual Report). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have considered the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on significant estimates and judgments used in applying accounting policies. While there is a greater degree of uncertainty in applying these judgments in light of this crisis, we believe reasonable estimates have been used in preparing the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as discussed in our 2020 Annual Report. 26