ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2021 Annual Report) for the year ended July 31, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 27, 2021. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. Each fiscal year typically consists of four 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal year ending July 30, 2022, and the fiscal year ended July 31, 2021, include 52 weeks of operations. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans, and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Since our founding in 2011, we have helped millions of women, men, and kids discover and buy what they love through personalized shipments of apparel, shoes, and accessories. Currently, clients can engage with us in one of two ways that, combined, form an ecosystem of personalized experiences across styling, shopping and inspiration: (1) by receiving a personalized shipment of items informed by our algorithms and sent by a Stitch Fix stylist (a Fix); or (2) by purchasing directly from our website or mobile app based on a personalized assortment of outfit and item recommendations (Freestyle). For a Fix, clients can choose to schedule automatic shipments or order on demand after they fill out a style profile on our website or mobile app. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any. Freestyle utilizes our algorithms to recommend a personalized assortment of outfit and item recommendations that will update throughout the day and will continue to evolve as we learn more about the client. For the three months ended October 30, 2021, we reported $581.2 million in net revenue, representing year-over-year growth of 18.5% from the three months ended October 31, 2020. As of October 30, 2021, and October 31, 2020, we had 4,180,000 and 3,763,000 active clients, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 11.1%. Net loss for the three months ended October 30, 2021, was $1.8 million, compared to net income for three months ended October 31, 2020, of $9.5 million. For more information on the components of net loss, refer to the section titled Results of Operations below. COVID-19 Update There continues to be uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic as the Delta variant of COVID-19, which appears to be the most transmissible and contagious variant to date, has caused an increase in COVID-19 cases globally. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business will depend on factors such as the length of time of the pandemic; how federal, state and local governments are responding; the impact of the Delta variant, Omicron variant and other variants that may emerge; vaccination rates among the population; the efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines against the Delta variant. Omicron variant and other variants that emerge; the longer-term impact of the pandemic on the economy and consumer behavior; and the effect on our clients, employees, vendors, and other partners. During this time, we are focused on protecting the health and safety of our employees and clients, while seeking to continue operating our business responsibly. 18 While we only experienced intermittent and temporary closures of our fulfillment centers in fiscal year 2021 due to COVID-19, we recently experienced an increase of COVID-19 cases in our fulfillment centers in connection with the increase of cases caused by the Delta variant. This recent increase in cases has affected capacity at our fulfillment centers, which could affect shipments to clients and inventory management. Additionally, we have experienced difficulty hiring employees in our fulfillment centers, which we attribute to COVID-19 concerns and to increased competition and rising wages for eCommerce fulfillment center workers as eCommerce demand accelerates. While we expect many employees to return to our offices later this fiscal year, the timing of such a return has been effected by the Delta variant and related surge in COVID-19 cases and could be further effected by this resurgence of COVID-19 or additional resurgences. When we return to our offices, we expect many employees to continue to work in a remote capacity or a hybrid of in-person and remote work. These changes to our operations going forward present additional challenges and increased costs to ensure our offices are safe and functional for hybrid offices that enable effective collaboration of both remote and in-person colleagues. The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the broader economy and consumer behavior continues to evolve. While we did initially experience lower demand during the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we saw growth in new client demand and strong auto-ship retention during fiscal 2021 and believe we are benefiting from the dislocation in the retail apparel market that is resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. For further discussion of the COVID-19 related risks facing our business, refer to the Risk Factors section included in Part II, Item 1A. Although we are experiencing unprecedented challenges during this global health crisis, we continue to focus on our long-term growth and strategies that capture the changing ways people shop. While we cannot reasonably estimate the long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations or financial results, we believe that our business model positions us to emerge from this pandemic with a structural advantage and new opportunities to increase market share. Key Financial and Operating Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between companies. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: adjusted EBITDA excludes interest income and other expense, net, as these items are not components of our core business; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our tax provision (benefit), which may increase or decrease cash available to us; adjusted EBITDA excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; adjusted EBITDA excludes the non-cash expense of stock-based compensation, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, an important part of how we attract and retain our employees and a significant recurring expense in our business; and free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. 19 Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) excluding interest income, other expense, net, provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and stock-based compensation expense. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Net income (loss) $ (1,827) $ 9,541 Add (deduct): Interest income (334) (1,161) Other expense, net 109 205 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 202 (28,118) Depreciation and amortization 7,740 6,459 Stock-based compensation expense 32,323 19,925 Adjusted EBITDA $ 38,213 $ 6,851 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flows provided by operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of cash flows provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Free cash flow reconciliation: Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 141,656 $ 57,359 Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment (16,392) (5,985) Free cash flow $ 125,264 $ 51,374 Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities $ (7,537) $ 1,701 Cash flows used in financing activities $ (13,698) $ (1,896) Operating Metrics October 30, 2021 July 31, 2021 May 1, 2021 January 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Active clients (in thousands) 4,180 4,165 4,107 3,873 3,763 Net revenue per active client $ 524 $ 505 $ 481 $ 467 $ 467 Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix or was shipped an item using our direct-buy functionality, Freestyle, in the preceding 52 weeks, measured as of the last day of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Mens, Womens, or Kids account as a client, even if they share the same household. We had 4,180,000 and 3,763,000 active clients as of October 30, 2021, and October 31, 2020, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 11.1%. Net Revenue per Active Client We believe that net revenue per active client is an indicator of client engagement and satisfaction. We calculate net revenue per active client based on net revenue over the preceding four fiscal quarters divided by the number of active clients, measured as of the last day of the period. Net revenue per active client was $524 and $467 as of October 30, 2021, and October 31, 2020, respectively, representing a year-over-year increase of 12.2%. 20 Factors Affecting Our Performance Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact our gross margins. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new locations, expanding to new categories, offering new functionalities such as Freestyle, or adding new fulfillment centers will all require additional investments in inventory. In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we experienced lower than expected inventory receipts due largely to global supply chain delays. We will continue to actively manage these delays and have plans to mitigate the impact on future periods. Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage them. We believe that implementing broad-based marketing strategies that increase our brand awareness has the potential to strengthen Stitch Fix as a national consumer brand, help us acquire new clients, and drive revenue growth. As our business has achieved a greater scale and we are able to support a large and growing client base, we have increased our investments in marketing to take advantage of more marketing channels to efficiently acquire clients. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. While we expect to continue to make significant marketing investments to grow our business in the long run, our marketing expenses may vary from period to period. The largest component of our marketing spend is advertising, which was $50.7 million for the three months ended October 30, 2021, compared to $51.4 million for the three months ended October 31, 2020. To successfully acquire clients and increase engagement, we must also continue to improve the diversity of our offering. These efforts may include broadening our brand partnerships and expanding into new categories, product types, price points, and geographies. For example, in July 2018 we launched Stitch Fix Kids, expanding our client and vendor base, and in May 2019, we launched our services in the UK, expanding our geographic scope. Weve also launched Freestyle in the United States, which provides clients the flexibility to purchase items outside of a Fix. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure To grow our client base and enhance our offering, we will incur additional expenses. We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to inform investments in operations and infrastructure. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as we continue to hire additional personnel and further advance our technological and data science capabilities. Moreover, we intend to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment centers, and office space and logistics infrastructure as we launch new categories, expand internationally, and drive operating efficiencies. For example, in November 2020, we entered into an agreement to lease approximately 700,000 square feet of space to be used as a new fulfillment center in Salt Lake City, Utah, and we are building mezzanine levels in certain existing warehouses to maximize capacity. We expect to increase our spending on operations and infrastructure in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our client base or be cost-effective. However, we believe these strategies will yield positive returns in the long term. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across categories, brands, product types, and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Exclusive Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry, and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. Generally, changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin to date; however categories, brands, product types, and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Exclusive Brands have generally contributed higher margins, shoes have generally contributed lower margins, and newer categories tend to initially have lower margins. Shifts in merchandise mix driven by client demand may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. 21 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of merchandise, either through our Fix or Freestyle offerings. With our Fix offering, we charge a nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased. We offer Style Pass to provide select U.S. clients with an alternative to paying a styling fee per Fix. Style Pass clients pay a nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. We deduct discounts, sales tax, and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout this Quarterly Report. We also recognize revenue resulting from estimated breakage income on gift cards. We expect our revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business, although our revenue growth rate may slow in future periods. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for inbound freight and shipping to and from clients, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees, and packaging materials costs, offset by the recoverable cost of merchandise estimated to be returned. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense for our employees including our stylists, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, marketing, client experience, and corporate personnel. Selling, general, and administrative expenses also include marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. We expect our selling, general, and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue due to the anticipated growth of our business, and increased marketing investments. Our classification of selling, general, and administrative expenses may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Our provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of an estimate of federal, state, and international income taxes based on enacted federal, state, and international tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, and changes in the valuation of our net federal and state deferred tax assets. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 30, 2021, and October 31, 2020 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) October 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Change Revenue, net $ 581,244 $ 490,423 18.5 % Cost of goods sold 308,327 270,972 13.8 % Gross profit 272,917 219,451 24.4 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 274,767 238,984 15.0 % Operating income (loss) (1,850) (19,533) (90.5) % Interest income 334 1,161 (71.2) % Other expense, net (109) (205) (46.8) % Income (loss) before income taxes (1,625) (18,577) (91.3) % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 202 (28,118) (100.7) % Net income (loss) $ (1,827) $ 9,541 (119.1) % 22 The following table sets forth the components of our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: For the Three Months Ended October 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 53.0 % 55.3 % Gross margin 47.0 % 44.7 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 47.3 % 48.7 % Operating income (loss) (0.3) % (4.0) % Interest income % 0.2 % Other expense, net % % Income (loss) before income taxes (0.3) % (3.8) % Provision (benefit) for income taxes % (5.7) % Net income (loss) (0.3) % 1.9 % Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue increased by $90.8 million or 18.5% during the three months ended October 30, 2021, compared with the same period last year. The increase in revenue was attributable to a 12.2% increase in revenue per active client and 11.1% increase in active clients from October 31, 2020, to October 30, 2021. Gross margin for the three months ended October 30, 2021, increased by over 220 basis points compared with the same period last year. The increase was primarily driven by improved product margins and shipping optimization, which was partially offset by higher clearance rates. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) increased by $35.8 million for the three months ended October 30, 2021, compared with the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A decreased to 47.3% for the three months ended October 30, 2021, compared with 48.7% for the three months ended October 31, 2020. The increase in SG&A for the three months ended October 30, 2021, compared with the same period last year, was primarily related to higher compensation and benefits expense, including an increase in hourly wages for our full-time U.S. warehouse associates. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue was primarily related to marketing costs during the three months ended October 30, 2021, compared to the three months ended October 31, 2020. As a percentage of revenue, marketing costs were lower this period due to the issuance of high-dollar referral credits to existing clients in the prior year period. In addition, marketing costs were lower year-over-year due to a shift in strategy towards newer channels, despite higher brand marketing costs year-over-year. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from income for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Income (loss) before income taxes $ (1,625) $ (18,577) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 202 (28,118) Effective tax rate (12.4) % 151.4 % We are primarily subject to income taxes in the United States and the United Kingdom. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 30, 2021, differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the full valuation allowance recorded on our net federal and state deferred tax assets. The tax provision for the three months ended October 30, 2021, is comprised of state taxes and income taxes in foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 31, 2020, differed from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the net operating loss carryback provisions of the CARES Act, partially offset by certain nondeductible expenses. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity since inception have been our cash flows from operations, as well as the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities and our IPO. As of October 30, 2021, we had $249.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and $150.9 million of investments. Our investment balance includes $62.4 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less as of October 30, 2021. In June 2021, we entered into a $100.0 million amended and restated credit agreement (the 2021 Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank and other lenders. The 2021 Credit Agreement includes a letter of credit sub-facility of $30.0 million and a swingline sub-facility of up to $50.0 million. Under the terms of the 2021 Credit Agreement, revolving loans may be either Eurodollar Loans or ABR Loans. Outstanding Eurodollar Loans incur interest at the Eurodollar Rate, which is defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement as LIBOR (or any successor thereto), plus a margin of 2.25%. Outstanding ABR Loans incur interest at the highest of (a) the Prime Rate, as published by the Wall Street Journal, (b) the federal funds rate in effect for such day plus 0.50%, and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00%, in each case plus a margin of 1.25%. We are charged a commitment fee of 0.25% for committed but unused amounts. The revolving line of credit under the 2021 Credit Agreement will terminate on May 31, 2024. As of October 30, 2021, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the 2021 Credit Agreement and we were in compliance with all financial covenants. For information on the terms of the 2021 Credit Agreement, please see Credit Agreement in Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Uses of Cash Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, lease obligations, compensation and benefits, marketing, and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and the borrowing available under our 2021 Credit Agreement, if needed, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated below: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 30, 2021 October 31, 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 141,656 $ 57,359 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (7,537) 1,701 Net cash used in financing activities (13,698) (1,896) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 120,421 $ 57,164 Cash provided by operating activities During the three months ended October 30, 2021, cash provided by operating activities was $141.7 million, which consisted of a net loss of $1.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $36.9 million and by a change of $106.6 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were primarily driven by $32.3 million of stock-based compensation expense and $8.3 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $71.5 million in our accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity and timing of payments and a change of $30.8 million in our inventory balance primarily due to a decline in inventory receipts from global supply chain delays. 24 During the three months ended October 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities was $57.4 million, which consisted of net income of $9.5 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $25.8 million and by a change of $22.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $19.9 million of stock-based compensation expense and $7.0 million of depreciation, amortization, and accretion. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $76.8 million in our accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity and timing of payments. This was partially offset by a change of $30.7 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth and a change of $28.3 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to an increase in federal tax receivables. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities During the three months ended October 30, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $7.5 million. This was primarily due to maturities and sales of available-for-sale securities of $59.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, substantially offset by our investment of $52.4 million in available-for-sale securities and purchases of property and equipment of $16.4 million. During the three months ended October 31, 2020, cash provided by investing activities was $1.7 million. This was primarily due to maturities and sales of available-for-sale securities of $32.8 million and $16.2 million, respectively, substantially offset by our investment of $41.3 million in highly rated available-for-sale securities and $6.0 million in purchases of property and equipment. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities During the three months ended October 30, 2021, and October 31, 2020, cash used in financing activities was $13.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, which was primarily due to payments for tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our 2021 Annual Report. Refer to Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies: Leases in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for commitments entered into during the three months ended October 30, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Except for the change in accounting principle related to our inventory costing methodology, there have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as disclosed in our 2021 Annual Report. Refer to Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies: Change in Accounting Principle in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on our change in inventory costing method.