ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 28, 2018 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 3, 2018. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday that is closest to July 31 of that year. Each fiscal year generally consists of four 13-week fiscal quarters, with each fiscal quarter ending on the Saturday that is closest to the last day of the last month of the quarter. The fiscal years ended July 28, 2018 , and August 3, 2019 , includes 52 and 53 weeks of operations, respectively. Throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report), all references to quarters and years are to our fiscal quarters and fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report that are not purely historical, including without limitation statements in the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regarding our projected financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives of our management for future operations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, project, seek, should, target, will, would and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are in turn based on information currently available to management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A below. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Stitch Fix is transforming the way people find what they love, one client at a time and one Fix at a time. Stitch Fix was inspired by the vision of a client-first, client-centric new way of retail. What people buy and wear matters. When we serve our clients well, we help them discover and define their styles, we find jeans that fit and flatter their bodies, we reduce their anxiety and stress when getting ready in the morning, we give them confidence in job interviews and on first dates and we give them time back in their lives to invest in themselves or spend with their families. Most of all, we are fortunate to play a small part in our clients looking, feeling and ultimately being their best selves. We are reinventing the shopping experience by delivering one-to-one personalization to our clients through the combination of data science and human judgment. This combination drives a better client experience and a more powerful business model than either element could deliver independently. Since our founding in 2011, we have helped millions of clients discover and buy what they love through personalized shipments of apparel, shoes and accessories, hand selected by Stitch Fix stylists and delivered to our clients homes. We call each of these shipments a Fix. Clients can choose to schedule automatic shipments or order a Fix on demand after they fill out a style profile on our website or mobile app. For each Fix, we charge clients a styling fee that is credited toward items they purchase. Alternatively, select clients may purchase an annual Style Pass, which offers unlimited styling for the year for a $49 fee that is also credited towards items they purchase. After receiving a Fix, our clients purchase the items they want to keep and return the other items, if any, at no additional charge. In addition, our Extras feature allows clients to select items such as socks, bras, underwear and other intimates that are then added to the five items their stylist selects for their Fix. Stitch Fix was founded with a focus on Womens apparel. In our first few years, we were able to gain a deep understanding of our clients and merchandise and build the capability to listen to our clients, respond to feedback and deliver the experience of personalization. More recently, we have extended those capabilities into Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus and Kids apparel, as well as shoes and accessories. Our stylists leverage our data science and apply their own judgment to hand select apparel, shoes and accessories for our clients from a broad range of merchandise. We are successful when we are able to help clients find what they love again and again, creating long-term, trusted relationships. Our clients share personal information with us, including detailed style, size, fit and price preferences, as well as unique inputs, 17 such as how often they dress for certain occasions or which parts of their bodies they like to flaunt or cover up. Our clients are motivated to share these personal details with us and provide us with ongoing feedback because they recognize that doing so will result in more personalized and successful experiences. This feedback also creates a valuable network effect by helping us to better serve other clients. The very human experience that we deliver is powered by data science. Our data science capabilities consist of our rich data set and our proprietary algorithms, which fuel our business by enhancing the client experience and driving business model efficiencies. The vast majority of our client data is provided directly and explicitly by the client, rather than inferred, scraped or obtained from other sources. We also gather extensive merchandise data, such as inseam, pocket shape, silhouette and fit. This large and growing data set provides the foundation for proprietary algorithms that we use throughout our business, including those that predict purchase behavior, forecast demand, optimize inventory and enable us to design new apparel. We believe our data science capabilities give us a significant competitive advantage, and as our data set grows, our algorithms become more powerful. Our stylists leverage our data science through a custom-built, web-based styling application that provides recommendations from our broad selection of merchandise. Our stylists then apply their judgment to select what they believe to be the best items for each Fix. Our stylists provide a personal touch, offer styling advice and context to each item selected and help us develop long-term relationships with our clients. We offer merchandise across multiple price points and styles from established and emerging brands, as well as our own private labels, which we call Exclusive Brands. Many of our brand partners also design and supply items exclusively for our clients. In October 2018, we announced that we are planning to launch operations in the United Kingdom by the end of our fiscal year 2019. We believe our success in serving clients has resulted in our rapid and profitable growth. We have achieved positive cash flows from operations on an annual basis since 2014, while continuing to make meaningful investments to drive growth. For the three months ended October 27, 2018 , we reported $366.2 million in net revenue, representing year-over-year growth of 23.9% from the three months ended October 28, 2017 . As of October 27, 2018 , and October 28, 2017 , we had 2,930,000 active clients and 2,396,000 active clients, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 22.3% . Net income for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , was $10.7 million , a decrease of $2.8 million from the three months ended October 28, 2017 . Included in net income for the three months ended October 28, 2017 , was a $9.1 million gain on remeasurement of our preferred stock warrant liability prior to our initial public offering (IPO) and higher statutory tax rates prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), which was enacted on December 22, 2017. Key Metrics We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. Management believes that excluding certain items that may vary substantially in frequency and magnitude period-to-period from net income and earnings per share (EPS) provides useful supplemental measures that assist in evaluating our ability to generate earnings and to more readily compare these metrics between past and future periods. Management also believes that adjusted EBITDA is frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that this supplemental measure facilitates comparisons between companies. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash from operations we have available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures. These non-GAAP financial measures may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. For instance, we do not exclude stock-based compensation expense from adjusted EBITDA or non-GAAP net income. Stock-based compensation is an important part of how we attract and retain our employees, and we consider it to be a real cost of running the business. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as substitutes for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are several limitations related to the use of our non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the closest comparable GAAP measures. Some of these limitations include: our non-GAAP net income, adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP EPS diluted measures exclude the remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability, which is a non-cash expense incurred in the periods prior to the completion of our IPO; adjusted EBITDA excludes the recurring, non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our tax provision, which reduces cash available to us; 18 adjusted EBITDA excludes interest income and other income, net, as these items are not components of our core business; and free cash flow does not represent the total residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes and does not reflect our future contractual commitments. Adjusted EBITDA We define adjusted EBITDA as net income excluding interest income, other income, net, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and, when present, the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation: Net income $ 10,678 $ 13,488 Add (deduct): Interest income (1,399 ) (17 ) Other income, net (120 ) Provision for income taxes 1,738 5,144 Depreciation and amortization 3,394 2,270 Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (9,071 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 14,291 $ 11,814 Non-GAAP Net Income We define non-GAAP net income as net income excluding, when present, the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-GAAP net income for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Non-GAAP net income reconciliation: Net income $ 10,678 $ 13,488 Add (deduct): Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (9,071 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 10,678 $ 4,417 Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share Diluted We define non-GAAP EPS as diluted EPS excluding, when present, the per share impact of the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability. The following table presents a reconciliation of EPS attributable to common stockholders diluted, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-GAAP EPS attributable to common stockholders diluted for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in dollars) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Non-GAAP earnings per share diluted reconciliation: Earnings (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders - diluted $ 0.10 $ 0.04 Per share impact of the remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (1) Non-GAAP earnings per share attributable to common stockholders diluted $ 0.10 $ 0.04 (1) For the three months ended October 28, 2017, the preferred stock warrant liability was dilutive and included in earnings per share attributable to common stockholders - diluted. Therefore, it is not an adjustment to arrive at non-GAAP EPS - diluted. 19 Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flow from operations reduced by purchases of property and equipment that are included in cash flow from investing activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Free cash flow reconciliation: Cash flows from operating activities $ 50,966 $ 24,791 Deduct: Purchases of property and equipment (6,985 ) (4,180 ) Free cash flow $ 43,981 $ 20,611 Cash flows used in investing activities $ (175,778 ) $ (4,180 ) Cash flows from (used in) financing activities $ 637 $ (123 ) Active Clients We believe that the number of active clients is a key indicator of our growth and the overall health of our business. We define an active client as a client who checked out a Fix in the preceding 12-month period, measured as of the last date of that period. A client checks out a Fix when she indicates what items she is keeping through our mobile application or on our website. We consider each Kids account as a client for calculating our active client number. We had 2,930,000 and 2,396,000 active clients as of October 27, 2018 , and October 28, 2017 , respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 22.3% . Factors Affecting Our Performance Client Acquisition and Engagement To grow our business, we must continue to acquire clients and successfully engage them. We believe that implementing broad-based marketing strategies that increase our brand awareness has the potential to strengthen Stitch Fix as a national consumer brand, help us acquire new clients and drive revenue growth. As our business has achieved a greater scale and we are able to support a large and growing client base, we have increased our investments in marketing to take advantage of more marketing channels to efficiently acquire clients. For example, we continue to increase our advertising spend, from $28.2 million for the three months ended October 28, 2017 , to $38.9 million for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to make significant marketing investments to grow our business. We currently utilize both digital and offline channels to attract new visitors to our website or mobile app and subsequently convert them into clients. Our current marketing efforts include client referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, television, print, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, mobile push communications, search engine optimization and keyword search campaigns. To successfully acquire clients and increase engagement, we must also continue to improve the diversity of our offering. These efforts may include broadening our brand partnerships and expanding into new categories, product types, price points and geographies. For example, in July 2018 we launched Stitch Fix Kids, expanding our client and vendor base, and in October 2018, we announced our intention to launch in the UK, expanding our geographic scope. Investment in our Operations and Infrastructure To grow our client base and enhance our offering, we will incur additional expenses. We intend to leverage our data science and deep understanding of our clients needs to inform investments in operations and infrastructure. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as we continue to hire additional personnel and further advance our technological and data science capabilities. Moreover, we intend to make capital investments in our inventory, fulfillment centers and office space and logistics infrastructure as we launch new categories, expand internationally and drive operating efficiencies. We expect to increase our spending on these investments in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will grow our client base or be cost-effective. However, we believe these strategies will yield positive returns in the long term. Inventory Management We leverage our data science to buy and manage our inventory, including merchandise assortment and fulfillment center optimization. To ensure sufficient availability of merchandise, we generally enter into purchase orders well in advance and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by client purchases. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and availability of merchandise at time of purchase. We incur inventory write-offs and changes in inventory reserves that impact 20 our gross margins. Because our merchandise assortment directly correlates to client success, we may at times optimize our inventory to prioritize long-term client success over short-term gross margin impact. Moreover, our inventory investments will fluctuate with the needs of our business. For example, entering new categories such as our recent launch of Stitch Fix Kids or adding new fulfillment centers will require additional investments in inventory. Merchandise Mix We offer apparel, shoes and accessories across categories, brands, product types and price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus and Kids. We carry a mix of third-party branded merchandise, including premium brands, and our own Exclusive Brands. We also offer a wide variety of product types, including denim, dresses, blouses, skirts, shoes, jewelry and handbags. We sell merchandise across a broad range of price points and may further broaden our price point offerings in the future. While changes in our merchandise mix have not caused significant fluctuations in our gross margin to date, categories, brands, product types and price points do have a range of margin profiles. For example, our Exclusive Brands have generally contributed higher margin, shoes have generally contributed lower margin, and new categories, such as Kids, tend to initially have lower margins. Shifts in merchandise mix driven by client demand may result in fluctuations in our gross margin from period to period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of merchandise. We charge a $20 nonrefundable upfront fee, referred to as a styling fee, that is credited towards any merchandise purchased in the Fix. We deduct discounts, sales tax and estimated refunds to arrive at net revenue, which we refer to as revenue throughout the report. In December 2017, we launched Style Pass to provide our clients with an alternative to paying a $20 styling fee per Fix. With Style Pass, clients pay a $49 nonrefundable annual fee for unlimited styling that is credited towards merchandise purchases. To a lesser extent, we also recognize estimated revenue resulting from gift card breakage. We expect our revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business, although our revenue growth rate may continue to slow in future periods. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold consists of the costs of merchandise, expenses for shipping to and from clients and inbound freight, inventory write-offs and changes in our inventory reserve, payment processing fees and packaging materials costs. We expect our cost of goods sold to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue primarily due to how we manage our inventory and merchandise mix. Our classification of cost of goods sold may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits costs, including stock-based compensation expense, for our employees including our stylist, fulfillment center operations, data analytics, merchandising, engineering, client experience, marketing and corporate personnel. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include marketing and advertising costs, third-party logistics costs, facility costs for our fulfillment centers and offices, professional service fees, information technology costs and depreciation and amortization expense. We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue due to the anticipated growth of our business, increased marketing investments and additional costs associated with being a public company. Our classification of selling, general and administrative expenses may vary from other companies in our industry and may not be comparable. Remeasurement of Preferred Stock Warrant Liability We estimate the fair value of the preferred stock warrant liability at the end of each reporting period and recognize changes in the fair value through our statement of operations. In connection with our IPO, all warrants were automatically exercised for no consideration; therefore, we do not expect to have preferred stock warrant liability in future periods. Interest Income Interest income is generated from our cash equivalents and investments in securities available for sale. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists of an estimate of federal, state and international income taxes based on enacted federal, state and international tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. 21 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 , and October 28, 2017 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: For the Three Months Ended % (in thousands) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Change Revenue, net $ 366,236 $ 295,563 23.9 % Cost of goods sold 201,068 166,548 20.7 % Gross profit 165,168 129,015 28.0 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 154,271 119,471 29.1 % Operating income 10,897 9,544 14.2 % Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability (9,071 ) (100.0 )% Interest income (1,399 ) (17 ) * Other income, net (120 ) 100.0 % Income before income taxes 12,416 18,632 (33.4 )% Provision for income taxes 1,738 5,144 (66.2 )% Net income $ 10,678 $ 13,488 (20.8 )% * Not meaningful The following table sets forth the components of our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: For the Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Revenue, net 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 54.9 % 56.3 % Gross margin 45.1 % 43.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 42.1 % 40.5 % Operating income 3.0 % 3.2 % Remeasurement of preferred stock warrant liability % (3.1 )% Interest income (0.4 )% % Other income, net % % Income before income taxes 3.4 % 6.3 % Provision for income taxes 0.5 % 1.7 % Net income 2.9 % 4.6 % Revenue and Gross Margin Revenue increased by $70.7 million or 23.9% during the three months ended October 27, 2018 , compared with the same period last year. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to a 22.3% increase in active clients from October 28, 2017 , to October 27, 2018 , which drove increased sales of merchandise. Gross margin for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , increased by 1.4% compared with the same period last year. The increase was primarily attributable to a decrease in inventory obsolescence reserves due to improved inventory management and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in clearance and inventory shrink. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $34.8 million for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , compared with the same period in 2017. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 42.1% for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , compared with 40.5% for the three months ended October 28, 2017 . The increase for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , compared with the same period last year was primarily related to higher compensation and benefits expense and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount as we continued to invest in technology talent and to higher advertising spend as we expanded our online and television advertising initiatives. 22 Remeasurement of Preferred Stock Warrant Liability The elimination of the remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability was due to the conversion of our preferred stock warrants into Class B common stock as part of our IPO. Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes our effective tax rate from income for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Income before income taxes $ 12,416 $ 18,632 Provision for income taxes 1,738 5,144 Effective tax rate 14.0 % 27.6 % We are primarily subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 27, 2018 , differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to lower tax rates in foreign jurisdictions where international expansion expenses are incurred, and certain nondeductible expenses and state taxes, partially offset by the benefits on stock-based compensation deductions, and allowable credits. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 28, 2017 , was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 28, 2017 , differ from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to nondeductible loss on remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability, state taxes and certain other nondeductible expenses, partially offset by the benefits on certain stock-based compensation deductions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity since inception have been our cash flows from operations, as well as the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities and our IPO. We have had positive and growing cash flows from operations since 2014. As of October 27, 2018 , we had raised an aggregate of $169.6 million of equity capital including proceeds from our IPO. We had $173.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, $12.9 million of restricted cash and investments of $168.9 million as of October 27, 2018 . Our investments include U.S. Treasury securities, asset-backed securities, commercial paper and corporate bonds, all of which are highly rated. Our investment balance includes $85.0 million of short-term investments with contractual maturities of 12 months or less as of October 27, 2018 . Our primary use of cash includes operating costs such as merchandise purchases, compensation and benefits, marketing and other expenditures necessary to support our business growth. We have been able to fund these costs through our cash flows from operations since 2014 and expect to continue to do so. We believe our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated and our cash and working capital balances as of the end of the period: For the Three Months Ended (in thousands) October 27, 2018 October 28, 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 50,966 $ 24,791 Net cash used in investing activities (175,778 ) (4,180 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 637 (123 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash $ (124,175 ) $ 20,488 Cash provided by operating activities During the three months ended October 27, 2018 , cash provided by operating activities was $51.0 million , which consisted of net income of $10.7 million , adjusted by non-cash charges of $10.3 million and a change of $30.0 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $6.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $3.2 million of depreciation and amortization, and a $1.1 million decrease in deferred tax expense. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $50.4 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to the increased 23 business activity and timing of payments, substantially offset by an increase of $23.2 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth. During the three months ended October 28, 2017 , cash provided by operating activities was $24.8 million , which consisted of net income of $13.5 million , adjusted by non-cash charges of $1.8 million and a change of $13.1 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges were largely driven by $9.1 million related to the remeasurement of the preferred stock warrant liability partially offset by a $4.2 million increase in our inventory reserve, $2.3 million of depreciation and amortization and $2.0 million of stock-based compensation expense. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $30.9 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities related to increased business activity, and a decrease of $4.1 million in prepaid and other assets due to timing of payments partially offset by an increase of $24.2 million in our inventory balance due to increased inventory purchases to support our growth. Cash used in investing activities During the three months ended October 27, 2018 , and October 28, 2017 , cash used in investing activities was $175.8 million and $4.2 million , respectively. During the three months ended October 27, 2018 cash used in investing activities was primarily related to the purchase of securities available-for-sale. During the three months ended October 28, 2017 , cash used in investing activities was primarily related to the expansion of our fulfillment centers and offices as well as continued investment in our proprietary systems. Cash (used in) provided by financing activities During the three months ended October 27, 2018 , cash provided by financing activities was $0.6 million , which was primarily due to the net proceeds from the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended October 28, 2017 , cash used in financing activities was $0.1 million , which was primarily due to $0.5 million related to payment of deferred offering costs, partially offset by $0.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments On October 12, 2018, we executed an agreement with a third-party logistics contractor to lease and operate a fulfillment center in Leicester, England (the Fulfillment Center Logistics Agreement). The agreement commits the Company to a five-year contract for logistics services at the Leicester fulfillment center that can be terminated after two years, with six months advance notice. Effective with the Fulfillment Center Logistics Agreement, the leasing component of the arrangement will be accounted for as an operating lease with future minimum lease payments over the five-year term of $11.1 million . There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations and other commitments as disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018 (2018 Annual Report). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, other than those discussed in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements related to the adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as compared to the critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report.