Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Financial and Operating Metrics for information on how we define and calculate active clients. 4 The very human experience that we deliver is powered by data science. Our data science capabilities consist of our rich data set and our proprietary algorithms, which fuel our business by enhancing the client experience and driving business model efficiencies. The vast majority of our client data is provided directly and explicitly by the client, rather than inferred, scraped, or obtained from other sources. We also gather extensive merchandise data, such as inseam, pocket shape, silhouette, and fit. This large and growing data set provides the foundation for proprietary algorithms that we use throughout our business, including those that predict purchase behavior, forecast demand, optimize inventory, and enable us to design new apparel. We believe our data science capabilities give us a significant competitive advantage, and as our data set grows, our algorithms become more powerful. Our stylists leverage our data science through a custom-built, web-based styling application that provides recommendations from our broad selection of merchandise. Our stylists then apply their judgment to select what they believe to be the best items for each Fix. Our stylists provide a personal touch, offer styling advice and context to each item selected, and help us develop long-term relationships with our clients. We offer merchandise across multiple price points and styles from established and emerging brands, as well as our own private labels, which we call Exclusive Brands. Many of our brand partners also design and supply items exclusively for our clients. Industry Overview Technology is Driving Transformation Across Industries Technological innovation has profoundly impacted how consumers discover and purchase products, forcing businesses to adapt to engage effectively with consumers. We believe that new business models that embrace these changes and truly focus on the consumer will be the winners in this changing environment. The Apparel, Shoes, and Accessories Market is Massive, but Many Retailers have Failed to Adapt to Changing Consumer Behavior The U.S. apparel, shoes, and accessories market is large, but we believe many brick-and-mortar retailers have failed to adapt to evolving consumer preferences. Historically, brick-and-mortar retailers have been the primary source of apparel, shoes, and accessories sales in the United States. Over time, brick-and-mortar retail has changed and the era of salespersons who know each customer on a personal level has passed. We believe many of todays consumers view the traditional retail experience as impersonal, time-consuming, and inconvenient. This has led to financial difficulties, bankruptcies, and store closures for many major department stores, specialty retailers, and retail chains, and this has been further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic as consumers feel less comfortable shopping at physical stores. eCommerce is Growing, but has Further Depersonalized the Shopping Experience The internet has created new opportunities for consumers to shop for apparel. eCommerce continues to take market share from brick-and-mortar retail. The first wave of eCommerce companies prioritized low price and fast delivery. This transaction-focused model is well suited for commoditized products and when consumers already know what they want. However, we believe eCommerce companies often fall short when consumers do not know what they want and price and delivery speed are not the primary decision drivers. There is an overwhelming selection of apparel, shoes, and accessories available to consumers online, and searches and filters are poor tools when it comes to finding items that fit ones style, figure, and occasion. eCommerce companies also lack the critical personal touchpoints necessary to help consumers find what they love, further depersonalizing the shopping experience. Personalization is the Next Wave To be relevant today, retailers must find a way to connect with consumers on a personal level and fit conveniently into their lifestyles. Personalization in retail can be difficult and nuanced, as consumers consider many factors that can be difficult to articulate, including style, size, fit, feel, and occasion. We believe that an intelligent combination of data science and human judgment is required to deliver the personalized retail experience that consumers seek. Competition The retail apparel industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include eCommerce companies that market apparel, shoes, and accessories; local, national, and global department stores; specialty retailers; discount chains; independent retail stores; and the online offerings of these traditional retail competitors. Additionally, we experience competition for consumer discretionary spending from other product and experiential categories. We compete primarily on the basis of client experience, brand, product selection, quality, convenience, and price. We believe that we are able to compete effectively because we offer clients a personalized and fun shopping experience that our competitors are unable to match. Further, as an eCommerce company without physical store locations, we believe that the COVID-19 pandemic has enhanced our competitive position in the retail industry. See Part I, Item1A Risk FactorsOur industry is highly competitive and if we do not compete effectively our operating results could be adversely affected for more information. 5 Our Service We help millions of clients discover and buy what they love through personalized apparel, shoes, and accessories. Our Data Science Advantage Our data science capabilities fuel our business. These capabilities consist of our rich and growing set of detailed client and merchandise data and our proprietary algorithms. We use data science throughout our business, including to style our clients, offer personalized direct buy options, predict purchase behavior, forecast demand, optimize inventory, and design new apparel. Our data set is particularly powerful because: the vast majority of our client data is provided directly and explicitly by the client, rather than inferred, scraped, or obtained from other sources; our clients are motivated to provide us with relevant personal data, both at initial signup and over time as they use our service, because they trust it will improve their shopping experience; and our merchandise data tracks dimensions that enable us to predict purchase behavior and deliver a more personalized experience. On average, each client directly provides us with over 90 meaningful data points through his or her style profile, including detailed style, size, fit, and price preferences, as well as unique inputs such as how often he or she dresses for certain occasions or which parts of his or her body the client likes to flaunt or cover up. Over time, through their feedback on Fixes they receive and other orders they make, clients share additional information about their preferences as well as detailed data about both the merchandise they keep and return. Historically, over 80% of our shipments have resulted in direct client feedback. This feedback loop drives important network effects, as our client-provided data informs not only our personalization capabilities for the specific client, but also helps us better serve other clients. In addition, Style Shuffle, an interactive mobile and web-based feature in which participants rate an assortment of Stitch Fix merchandise, provides additional data to strengthen our understanding of client tastes and style preferences. We believe our proprietary merchandise data set is differentiated from other retailers. We encode each of our SKUs with numerous information attributes to help our algorithms make better recommendations for our clients. The information we store for each SKU includes: basic data, such as brand, size, color, pattern, silhouette, and material; item measurements, such as length, width, diameter of sleeve opening, and distance from collar to first button; nuanced descriptors, such as how appropriate the piece is for a client that prefers preppy clothing or whether it is appropriate for a formal event; and client feedback, such as how the item fit a 510 client or how popular the piece is with young mothers. Our algorithms use our data set to match merchandise to each of our clients. For every combination of client and merchandise, we compute the probability the client will keep that item based on her and other clients preferences and purchase history as well as the attributes and past performance of the merchandise. Pairing Data Science with Human Judgment The combination of data science and human judgment drives a better client experience and a more powerful business model than either element could deliver independently. Our advanced data science capabilities harness the power of our data for our stylists by generating predictive recommendations to streamline our stylists individualized curation process. Stylists add a critical layer of contextual, human decision making that augments and improves our algorithms selections and ultimately produces a better, more personalized Fix for each client. Our Differentiated Value Proposition Our Value Proposition to Clients Our clients love our service for many reasons. We help clients find apparel, shoes, and accessories that they love in a way that is convenient and fun. We save our clients time by doing the shopping, delivering merchandise right to their homes, allowing them to try on merchandise in the comfort of their homes and in the context of their own closets, and making the return process simple. Our expert styling service connects each client ordering a Fix to a professional who will understand her fashion needs, hand select items personalized to her, and offer her ongoing style advice. Clients also value the quality and diversity of our merchandise as we deliver the familiar brands they know, offer items they cant find anywhere else, and expand their fashion palette by exposing them to new brands and styles they might not have tried if they shopped for themselves. We often hear from clients that we have helped them find the perfect pair of jeans or discover a dress silhouette they never would have selected for themselves. In these situations, not only is our service more convenient, it is in fact more effective at helping clients find what they love. We proudly serve men, women, and kids across ages, sizes, tastes, geographies, and price preferences. 6 Our Value Proposition to Brand Partners We believe that we are a preferred channel and a powerful growth opportunity for our brand partners. Unlike many sales channels, we do not rely on discounts or promotions. Also, by introducing our clients to brands they may not have shopped for, we help our brand partners reach clients they may not have otherwise reached. Further, we provide our brand partners with insights based on client feedback that help our brand partners improve and evolve their merchandise to better meet consumer demand. Our Strengths Since we were founded in 2011, we have shipped millions of Fixes and direct purchases to our clients. We have achieved this success due to our following key strengths: our rich client and merchandise data; our expert data science team and proprietary and predictive algorithms; our team of 4,700+ stylists; our unique combination of data science and human judgment; and our superior business model. Our Strategy We aim to transform the way people find what they love. We plan to achieve this goal by continuing to: expand our relationships with existing clients; acquire new clients; and expand our addressable market. How it Works The Fix A Fix is a Stitch Fix-branded box containing a combination of apparel, shoes, and accessories personally selected for a client by her Stitch Fix stylist and delivered to the client for her to try on in the comfort of her own home. She can keep some, all, or none of the items in the Fix and easily return any items in a prepaid-postage bag provided in the Fix. One of our stylists individually selects each item in a Fix for a client from a broad range of merchandise recommended to the stylist by our algorithms. These algorithmic recommendations are based on the clients personal style profile, her own order behavior, the aggregate historical behavior of our client base, and the aggregate historical data we have collected on each item of merchandise we have available. We have numerous touch points with our clients. Before a client receives his or her first Fix, he or she shares the following information with us: Style profile . Upon registering, each client fills out a style profile on either our website or mobile application. The style profile allows us to introduce ourselves to a client, initiate a dialogue, and start gathering data. Personal note to stylist . Each client can share a personal note with his or her stylist when placing a Fix order or after receiving a Fix. For example, a client might request shoes for a friends wedding or shorts for an upcoming vacation. These personal notes enable us to better personalize a Fix. After completing her initial style profile, a client chooses her preferred order frequency and can select the exact date by which she wants to receive her Fix. We currently offer two types of Fix scheduling: Auto-ship . A client can elect to auto-ship Fixes every two to three weeks, monthly, bi-monthly, or quarterly. On-demand . Our on-demand option allows clients to schedule a one-time Fix at any time, either instead of or in addition to utilizing the auto-ship option. An on-demand client is prompted to schedule her next Fix each time she checks out, but is not obligated to do so. We recognize that our clients have different needs, so our Fix frequency options are another way that we personalize the client experience. Each client can increase or decrease the Fix frequency at any time, and can also easily reschedule any given shipment to better accommodate her needs. Each Fix is delivered to the clients address of choice. We also offer Extras, a feature that allows clients to select items such as socks, bras, underwear, and other intimates that are then added to the items their stylist selects for their Fix. In addition to a personalized selection of apparel, shoes, and accessories, each Fix also includes a personal note from the stylist and a style card to provide clients with outfit ideas for each item. 7 Once a client decides which items she wishes to keep she can easily check out and pick the delivery date for her next Fix via our website or mobile application. During the checkout process, each client is invited to provide feedback about the fit, price, style, and quality of the items received. Historically, over 80% of shipments have resulted in direct client feedback. This feedback informs both our algorithms and stylists to improve each future Fix. We also gather feedback through Style Shuffle, an interactive mobile and web-based feature in which participants rate an assortment of Stitch Fix merchandise, providing additional data to strengthen our understanding of client tastes and style preferences. We charge clients a styling fee of $20 in the United States and 10 in the UK for each Fix, which is credited toward the merchandise purchased. For our Style Pass clients, we charge a $49 annual fee in the United States, the only country where Style Pass is offered, which provides unlimited styling for the year and is credited toward the merchandise purchased over the course of the year. If the client chooses to keep all items chosen for them by their stylist, she receives a discount on the entire shipment, which is 25% in the United States and 20% in the UK. The client can return the items she does not want or exchange items for a different size if available, using the prepaid-postage bag delivered in her Fix. We request that clients return items to us that they do not wish to purchase within three calendar days of receiving a Fix. Direct Buy In June 2019, we launched direct-buy functionality to allow clients the flexibility of purchasing items outside of a Fix. The first offering of this direct-buy functionality was Buy it Again, allowing clients in the United States to buy previously purchased items in new colors, prints, and sizes. In February 2020, we launched Complete Your Looks, which presents clients a personalized set of algorithmically generated items for direct purchase based on items they have already bought from us, and in June 2020, we introduced Trending For You, which allows Mens and Womens clients to shop personalized looks based on their style profiles, even if they had not previously purchased an item from us. No styling fee is charged for direct-buy purchases. Our Merchandise, Brand Partners, and Exclusive Brands The breadth of our merchandise selection is essential to our success. Our algorithms filter over one thousand SKUs to recommend a subset of relevant merchandise to our stylists, who leverage the information to select the merchandise for a clients Fix. We source merchandise from brand partners and also create our own merchandise to serve unmet client needs. We offer apparel, shoes, and accessories across a range of price points. We currently serve our clients in the following categories: Womens, Petite, Maternity, Mens, Plus, and Kids, and our merchandise addresses a diverse range of styles. Brand Partners We partner with established and emerging brands across multiple price points and styles. With many of our brand partners, we develop third-party branded items exclusively sold to Stitch Fix clients. This exclusivity allows our clients to discover personally recommended products that are unavailable elsewhere. Exclusive Brands We also design and bring to market our own styles, which we refer to as Exclusive Brands, in order to target specific client needs that are unmet by what our merchandising team can source in the market. We use data science to identify and develop the new products for our Exclusive Brands. We then pair our data with the expertise of our design teams to bring these new products to market. We expect our product development efforts will yield better products for our clients as we acquire more data and feedback. Exclusive Brands are a meaningful part of our business and we expect them to be a permanent part of our portfolio. However, we do not have specific targets for the merchandise mix provided by our brand partners and our Exclusive Brands, and expect it will fluctuate over time. We will continue to develop products when we identify opportunities or gaps in the market. Sourcing We purchase substantially all of our merchandise directly from our brand partners or Exclusive Brands merchandise vendors, who are responsible for the entire manufacturing process. For the production of our Exclusive Brands, we contract with merchandise vendors, who are responsible for the entire manufacturing process. Some of these vendors operate their own manufacturing facilities and others subcontract the manufacturing to other parties. Our vendors generally agree to our standard vendor terms, which govern our business relationship. Although we do not have long-term agreements with our vendors, we have long-standing relationships with a diverse base of vendors that we believe to be mutually satisfactory. All of our Exclusive Brand merchandise is produced according to our specifications, and we require that all of our vendors comply with applicable law and observe strict standards of conduct. We have hired independent firms that conduct audits of the working conditions at the factories producing our Exclusive Brands. If an audit reveals potential problems, we require that the vendor institute corrective action plans to bring the factory into compliance with our standards, or we may discontinue our relationship with the 8 vendor. We require that all new factories producing Exclusive Brand merchandise for us be audited before Stitch Fix production begins. Inventory Management and Fulfillment We have eight fulfillment centers, seven of which are in the United States (located in California, Arizona, Texas, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and Indiana), and the eighth in the UK. In our fulfillment centers, our algorithms increase efficiencies in processes such as allocation, batch picking, transportation, shipping, returns, and ongoing process improvement. We have a reverse logistics operation to manage returned merchandise. Our specialist returns teams in our dedicated return intake areas accept, process, and reallocate returns to our inventory so the merchandise can be selected for another Fix. Our expertise in inventory management allows us to turn inventory quickly, which drives working capital efficiency. Seasonality Seasonality in our business does not follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical concentration of revenue in the holiday quarter. We generally experience lower quarter-over-quarter growth rates during our second fiscal quarter due to slower active client growth during the holiday season. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets, and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. Our principal trademark assets include the trademarks Stitch Fix and Fix, which are registered in the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, our logos and taglines, and multiple private label apparel and accessory brand names. We have applied to register or registered many of our trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions, and we will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe they would be beneficial and cost-effective. We file patents in the United States and abroad and intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective. We are the registered holder of multiple domestic and international domain names that include stitchfix and similar variations. We also hold domain registrations for many of our private-label brand names and other related trade names and slogans. Our proprietary algorithm technologies, other than those incorporated into a patent application, are protected by trade secret laws. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, and business partners. Our employees are also subject to invention assignment agreements. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both our client terms of use on our website and in our vendor terms and conditions. Government Regulation As with all retailers and companies operating on the internet, we are subject to a variety of international and U.S. federal and state laws governing the processing of payments, consumer protection, the privacy of consumer information, and other laws regarding unfair and deceptive trade practices. Apparel, shoes, and accessories sold by us are also subject to regulation by governmental agencies in the United States and in the UK. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety. We are also subject to environmental laws, rules, and regulations. Similarly, apparel, shoes, and accessories sold by us are also subject to import regulations in the United States and other countries concerning the use of wildlife products for commercial and non-commercial trade, including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current fiscal year or in the near future. Employees As of August 1, 2020, we had approximately 8,000 employees, including over 4,700 stylists, 1,900 fulfillment center employees, 290 client experience employees, 240 engineers, and 145 data scientists. As of such date, over 87% of our employees and 40% of our management team identified as female. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to employee disputes, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Corporate and Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2011 under the name rack habit inc. We changed our name to Stitch Fix, Inc. in October 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 1 Montgomery Street, Suite 1500, San Francisco, California, 94104, and our telephone number is (415) 882-7765. Our website is located at www.stitchfix.com, and our investor relations website is located at https://investors.stitchfix.com. 9 We file or furnish electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make copies of these reports available free of charge through our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Stitch Fix and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through our websites is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant disruption to our operations and is negatively impacting our business, key financial and operating metrics, and results of operations in numerous ways that remain unpredictable. Our business has been and may continue to be materially impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak, which was declared a global pandemic in March 2020. This pandemic and related measures taken to contain the spread of COVID-19, such as government-mandated business closures, orders to shelter in place, and travel and transportation restrictions, have negatively affected the U.S. and global economies, disrupted global supply chains, and led to unprecedented levels of unemployment. We have also taken certain actions in response to these measures, such as temporarily closing three of our eight fulfillment centers to assess our ability to operate under shelter-in-place orders and develop protocols to protect the welfare of our warehouse employees. These factors have resulted in significant disruption that has negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our business, including our operational capacity. While all of our fulfillment centers are currently open, they were operating at a reduced capacity in the third fiscal quarter of 2020 as employees worked on an opt-in basis and with social distancing protocols that required fewer employees to be in a fulfillment center than previously. We also provided all of our fulfillment center employees four weeks of flexible paid time off. Due to these measures, we had significantly less capacity in our warehouses during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, which resulted in delayed Fix shipments, a significant Fix backlog, delayed inventory and return processing, extended wait times for clients, and inventory management challenges. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we experienced smaller, intermittent interruptions at some of our fulfillment centers when we temporarily closed for part of a work day or for a full day to perform safety and cleaning procedures following an employee testing positive for COVID-19. All of these factors negatively impacted our ability to fulfill new and existing client demand and our revenue, revenue per active client, and gross margin in the fiscal year ended August 1, 2020. There continues to be a great deal of uncertainty around the breadth and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on U.S. and global economic activity and consumer behavior. Unemployment rates in the U.S. and UK have increased significantly, which has dampened and could continue to dampen consumer spending and demand for our service, as could the possibility of a national or global economic recession or depression. To the extent the impact of COVID-19 continues or worsens, or if there is a resurgence after any containment, consumer behavior may be altered for an extended period, which would impact our results of operations and financial condition. Currently, most of our employees in our corporate offices are working remotely. An extended period of remote work arrangements could strain our business continuity plans, increase operational risk, including heightened vulnerability to cyber attacks, reduce productivity, and impair our ability to manage our business. Our ability to return to normalized operations and the timing of such a return cannot be predicted at this time. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic disruption has also led to significant volatility in the capital markets and has adversely impacted our stock price. While we have taken measures to preserve our access to liquidity, our cash generated from operations has been negatively impacted and future cash flows will be impacted by the development of the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted our results of operations, but the extent and duration of this impact remain uncertain. It will depend on factors such as the length of time the pandemic continues; how national, state and local governments continue to respond; the impact of the crisis on the economy and consumer behavior; and the effect on our clients, employees, vendors, and other partners. For example, we continue to work with our vendors to minimize inventory disruptions, and while we have not been significantly impacted by delays in inventory receipts, future delays and supply constraints may negatively affect our ability to obtain and manage inventory. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also exacerbate other risks discussed below, any of which could have a material effect on us. Though we continue to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic closely, the situation is changing rapidly, and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently. In addition, if there is a future resurgence of COVID-19 following its initial containment, the negative impacts on our business may be exacerbated. Our failure to adequately and effectively staff our fulfillment centers, through third parties or with our own employees, could adversely affect our client experience and operating results. We currently receive and distribute merchandise at seven fulfillment centers in the United States. We are in the process of migrating one of these fulfillment centers, which is operated by a third party, to a nearby facility that we recently opened and are operating. We also have an eighth fulfillment center in the United Kingdom, which is operated by a third party. During the third quarter of our 2020 fiscal year, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily closed three of our eight fulfillment centers, offered our fulfillment center employees four weeks of paid time off, and reduced the maximum number of employees in each fulfillment center in order to implement social distancing protocols. These changes resulted in operational constraints, which in turn temporarily reduced our ability to ship merchandise to clients and earn revenue during the third quarter of our 2020 fiscal year. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we experienced smaller, intermittent interruptions at some of our fulfillment centers when we temporarily closed for part of a work day or for a full day to perform safety and cleaning procedures following notice that an employee tested positive for COVID-19. If there is a resurgence of COVID-19 in the areas where our fulfillment centers are located, or we or our third-party 11 partner are unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers to meet demand in the future, or if the cost of such staffing is higher than historical or projected costs due to mandated wage increases, regulatory changes, international expansion, or other factors, these effects could be exacerbated and our operating results could be further harmed. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we experienced some difficulty hiring employees in two of our warehouse locations, which we attribute to COVID-19 concerns and to increased competition and rising wages for eCommerce fulfillment center workers as eCommerce demand accelerates. In addition, operating fulfillment centers comes with potential risks, such as workplace safety issues and employment claims for the failure or alleged failure to comply with labor laws or laws respecting union organizing activities. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with wage and hour laws for our nonexempt employees, many of whom work in our fulfillment centers, we could be subject to legal risk, including claims for back wages, unpaid overtime pay, and missed meal and rest periods, which could be on a class or representative basis. Any such issues may result in delays in shipping times, reduced packing quality, or costly litigation, and our reputation and operating results may be harmed. By using a third-party operator for some of our fulfillment centers, we also face additional risks associated with not having complete control over operations at those fulfillment centers. Any deterioration in the financial condition or operations of that third party, or the loss of the relationship with that third party, would have significant impact on our operations. We rely on consumer discretionary spending and have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends. Our business and operating results are subject to global economic conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending. Some of the factors that may negatively influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment; higher consumer debt levels; reductions in net worth, declines in asset values, and related market uncertainty; home foreclosures and reductions in home values; fluctuating interest rates and credit availability; fluctuating fuel and other energy costs; fluctuating commodity prices; and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment. We have experienced many of these factors due to the COVID-19 pandemic and related responses and have seen negative impacts on client demand as a result. Furthermore, any increases in consumer discretionary spending during times of crisis may be temporary, such as those related to government stimulus programs, and consumer spending may decrease again if the government does not continue such stimulus programs. Economic conditions in certain regions may also be affected by natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, and wildfires; other public health crises; and other major unforeseen events. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the merchandise that we offer, generally decline during recessionary periods or periods of economic uncertainty, when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. Adverse economic changes could reduce consumer confidence, and could thereby negatively affect our operating results. In challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict when macroeconomic uncertainty may arise, whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen or what impact such circumstances could have on our business. We have a short operating history in an evolving industry and, as a result, our past results may not be indicative of future operating performance. We have a short operating history in a rapidly evolving industry that may not develop in a manner favorable to our business. Our relatively short operating history makes it difficult to assess our future performance. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to, among other things: cost-effectively acquire new clients and engage with existing clients; overcome the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; increase our market share; increase consumer awareness of our brand and maintain our reputation; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes; successfully expand our offering and geographic reach; anticipate and respond to changing style trends and consumer preferences; manage our inventory effectively; compete effectively; avoid interruptions in our business from information technology downtime, cybersecurity breaches, or labor stoppages; effectively manage our growth; continue to enhance our personalization capabilities; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; 12 maintain the quality of our technology infrastructure; develop new features to enhance the client experience; and retain our existing merchandise vendors and attract new vendors. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business and our operating results will be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be harmed. To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to implement our operational plans and strategies, improve and expand our infrastructure of people and information systems, and expand, train, and manage our employee base. From inception to date, we have rapidly and significantly increased our employee headcount to support the growth of our business. We added a significant number of employees during 2019 and may do so again in the future. Since our initial public offering in 2017, we have expanded across all areas of our business. To support continued growth, we must effectively integrate, develop, and motivate a large number of new employees while maintaining our corporate culture, which is made more challenging in the face of shelter-in-place orders issued by governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The risks associated with a rapidly growing workforce will be particularly acute as we expand internationally, as we are less familiar with the labor markets outside of the United States, and if we choose to expand into new merchandise categories. We are also required to manage numerous relationships with various vendors and other third parties. Further growth of our operations, vendor base, fulfillment centers, information technology systems, or internal