Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and located elsewhere herein concerning our plans, objectives, goals, beliefs, business strategies, future events, business conditions, results of operations, financial position, business outlook, business trends and other information, may be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, words such as might, will, may, should, estimates, expects, continues, contemplates, anticipates, projects, plans, potential, predicts, intends, believes, forecasts, future, targeted, goal and variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, and are based upon our current expectations, beliefs, estimates and projections, and various assumptions, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. Our expectations, beliefs, estimates and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them. However, there can be no assurance that managements expectations, beliefs, estimates and projections will be achieved and actual results may vary materially from what is expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. There are a number of risks, uncertainties and other important factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. These principal risks, uncertainties and other important factors are discussed more fully under Item 1A. Risk Factors and include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business in General Our quarterly operating results, revenues, and expenses may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our class A common stock and series A perpetual strike preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as our listed securities; We may not be able to regain profitability in future periods; A significant decrease in the market value of our bitcoin holdings could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations; Unrealized fair value gains on our bitcoin holdings could cause us to become subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022; Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to various risks, including risks associated with bitcoin; Bitcoin is a highly volatile asset, and fluctuations in the price of bitcoin have in the past influenced and are likely to continue to influence our financial results and the market price of our listed securities; Bitcoin and other digital assets are novel assets, and are subject to significant legal, commercial, regulatory and technical uncertainty Our historical financial statements do not reflect the potential variability in earnings that we may experience in the future relating to our bitcoin holdings; The availability of spot exchange-traded products (ETPs) for bitcoin and other digital assets may adversely affect the market price of our listed securities; Our bitcoin strategy subjects us to enhanced regulatory oversight; Bitcoin trading venues may experience greater fraud, security failures or regulatory or operational problems than trading venues for more established asset classes; The concentration of our bitcoin holdings enhances the risks inherent in our bitcoin strategy; Our bitcoin holdings are less liquid than our existing cash and cash equivalents and may not be able to serve as a source of liquidity for us to the same extent as cash and cash equivalents; 4 If we or our third-party service providers experience a security breach or cyberattack and unauthorized parties obtain access to our bitcoin, or if our private keys are lost or destroyed, or other similar circumstances or events occur, we may lose some or all of our bitcoin and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected; We face risks relating to the custody of our bitcoin, including the loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoin and cyberattacks or other data loss relating to our bitcoin; Regulatory change reclassifying bitcoin as a security could lead to our classification as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and could adversely affect the market price of bitcoin and the market price of our listed securities; We are not subject to legal and regulatory obligations that apply to investment companies such as mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, or to obligations applicable to investment advisers; Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to risk of non-performance by counterparties; Risks Related to Our Enterprise Analytics Software Business Strategy We derive revenue from a single software platform and related services as well as revenue from our installed customer base; As our customers increasingly shift from a product license model to a cloud subscription model, we could face higher future rates of attrition, and such a shift could continue to affect the timing of revenue recognition or reduce product licenses and product support revenues; Integration of artificial intelligence into our enterprise analytics product offerings and our use of artificial intelligence in our operations could result in reputational or competitive harm, legal liability, and other adverse effects on our business; Risks Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights; Changes in third-party software or systems or the emergence of new industry standards could materially adversely affect the operation of and demand for our existing software; The nature of our software makes it particularly susceptible to undetected errors, bugs, or security vulnerabilities, which could cause problems with how the software performs and, in turn, reduce demand for our software, reduce our revenue, and lead to litigation claims against us; Risks Related to Our Operations Business disruptions could materially adversely affect our operating results or result in a material weakness in our internal controls; We face a variety of risks in doing business with U.S. and foreign federal, state, and local governments and government agencies, including risks related to the procurement process, budget constraints and cycles, termination of contracts, and compliance with government contracting requirements; If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of Michael J. Saylor, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected; Changes in laws or regulations relating to privacy or the collection, processing, disclosure, storage, localization, or transmission of personal data, or any actual or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to comply with such laws and regulations, contractual obligations, or applicable privacy policies, could materially adversely affect our business; If we experience a disruption due to a cybersecurity attack or security breach and unauthorized parties obtain access to data, networks or other systems, we may incur significant legal and financial liabilities, and our business could be materially adversely affected; Our having entered into an indemnification agreement with Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Chairman, that supplements our conventional director and officer liability insurance provided by third-party insurance carriers could negatively affect our business and the market price of our listed securities; Risks Related to Our Listed Securities Generally The market price of our class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile; Because of the rights of our two classes of common stock and because Michael J. Saylor, who beneficially owns the majority of our class B common stock, controls a significant portion of our total voting power, Mr. Saylor has significant influence over 5 matters that require approval of our stockholders and as a result could impede a third party from acquiring us, or limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence corporate matters; Future sales of securities by us could depress the price of our listed securities; Risks Relating to Our Series A Perpetual Strike Preferred Stock Our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is senior to our class A common stock, junior to our existing and future indebtedness, structurally junior to the liabilities of our subsidiaries and subject to the rights and preferences of any other class or series of preferred stock then outstanding; We may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends in cash on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, or we may choose not to pay dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and regulatory and contractual restrictions may prevent us from declaring or paying dividends; We may issue preferred stock in the future that ranks equally with or senior to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights, which may adversely affect the rights of holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock; The tax rules applicable to fast-pay stock could result in adverse consequences to holders of perpetual strike preferred stock; Risks Related to Our Outstanding and Potential Future Indebtedness Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to further execute on our bitcoin strategy, fund our enterprise analytics software operations, and take advantage of new business opportunities; We may be unable to service our indebtedness, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our outstanding convertible notes in cash or to repurchase the convertible notes for cash upon a fundamental change, or to repurchase convertible notes if noteholders exercise their repurchase rights, and any future debt may contain limitations on our ability to engage in cash settled conversions or repurchases of convertible notes; Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur substantially more indebtedness and enter into other transactions in the future which could further exacerbate the risks related to our indebtedness. We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking statements contained herein may not in fact occur. The forward-looking statements made herein relate only to events as of the date on which the statements were made. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect events and circumstances after the date on which the statements were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 6 PART I Item 1. Business Overview StrategyTM is the world's first and largest Bitcoin Treasury Company. We are a publicly traded company that has adopted Bitcoin as our primary treasury reserve asset. By using proceeds from equity and debt financings, as well as cash flows from our operations, we strategically accumulate Bitcoin and advocate for its role as digital capital. Our treasury strategy is designed to provide investors varying degrees of economic exposure to Bitcoin by offering a range of securities, including equity and fixed income instruments. In addition, we provide industry-leading AI-powered enterprise analytics software, advancing our vision of Intelligence Everywhere. We leverage our development capabilities to explore innovation in Bitcoin applications, integrating analytics expertise with our commitment to digital asset growth. We believe our combination of operational excellence, strategic Bitcoin reserve, and focus on technological innovation positions us as a leader in both the digital asset and enterprise analytics sectors, offering a unique opportunity for long-term value creation. Bitcoin Strategy We believe that bitcoin is an attractive asset because (i) it can serve as a store of value, supported by a robust and public open-source architecture, that is untethered to sovereign monetary policy, (ii) due to its limited supply, bitcoin offers the potential to serve as a hedge against inflation in the long-term and, if its adoption increases, the opportunity for appreciation in value, and (iii) the Bitcoin network provides the infrastructure and opportunity for the development of financial and technological innovations. In September 2020, our Board of Directors adopted a Treasury Reserve Policy (as amended to date, the Treasury Reserve Policy) that updated our treasury management and capital allocation strategies, under which our treasury reserve assets will consist of: cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments (Cash Assets) held by us that exceed working capital requirements; and bitcoin held by us, with bitcoin serving as the primary treasury reserve asset on an ongoing basis, subject to market conditions and anticipated needs of the business for Cash Assets. In the first quarter of 2021, we adopted, in addition to and in conjunction with our Treasury Reserve Policy, a corporate strategy of acquiring and holding bitcoin, including with the proceeds of capital raising transactions. Our bitcoin strategy generally involves from time to time, subject to market conditions, (i) issuing debt or equity securities or engaging in other capital raising transactions with the objective of using the proceeds to purchase bitcoin and (ii) acquiring bitcoin with our liquid assets that exceed working capital requirements. We intend to fund further bitcoin acquisitions primarily through issuances of common stock and a variety of fixed-income instruments, including debt, convertible notes and preferred stock. We view our bitcoin holdings as long-term holdings and expect to continue to accumulate bitcoin. We have not set any specific target for the amount of bitcoin we seek to hold, and we will continue to monitor market conditions in determining whether to engage in additional financings to purchase additional bitcoin. This overall strategy also contemplates that we may (i) periodically sell bitcoin for general corporate purposes or in connection with strategies that generate tax benefits in accordance with applicable law, (ii) enter into additional capital raising transactions that are collateralized by our bitcoin holdings, and (iii) consider pursuing strategies to create income streams or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings. Additionally, we periodically engage in advocacy and educational activities, such as our Bitcoin for Corporations sessions at our annual World conferences, regarding the continued acceptance and value of Bitcoin as an open, secure protocol for an internet-native digital capital asset,and we leverage our software development capabilities to explore innovation in Bitcoin applications. Our Bitcoin Holdings During 2024, we purchased a total of approximately 258,320 bitcoins at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $22.073 billion for an average purchase price of approximately $85,447 per bitcoin, inclusive of fees and expenses. During 2023, we purchased a total of approximately 56,650 bitcoins at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.902 billion for an average purchase price of approximately $33,580 per bitcoin, inclusive of fees and expenses. We did not sell any bitcoin during 2024 or 2023. During the period between January 1, 2025 and February 14, 2025, we purchased a total of approximately 31,270 bitcoins at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $3.165 billion for an average purchase price of approximately $101,225 per bitcoin, inclusive of fees and expenses. We did not sell any bitcoins during the period between January 1, 2025 and February 14, 2025. Refer to the Our Bitcoin Strategy 7 section under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information regarding our bitcoin purchases, including the source of capital used to purchase bitcoin. At December 31, 2024, we carried $23.909 billion of digital assets on our balance sheet, consisting of approximately 447,470 bitcoins and reflecting $4.059 billion in cumulative impairment losses attributable to bitcoin trading price fluctuations, and held $38.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. At December 31, 2023, we carried $3.626 billion of digital assets on our balance sheet, consisting of approximately 189,150 bitcoins and reflecting $2.269 billion in cumulative impairment losses attributable to bitcoin trading price fluctuations, and held $46.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. On January 1, 2025, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-08, IntangiblesGoodwill and OtherCrypto Assets (Subtopic 350-60): Accounting for and Disclosure of Crypto Assets (ASU 2023-08). ASU 2023-08 requires us to measure our bitcoin holdings at fair value in our statement of financial position, with gains and losses from changes in the fair value of our bitcoin recognized in net income each reporting period. As a result of our adoption of ASU 2023-08, as of January 1, 2025, we are required to apply a cumulative-effect net increase to the opening balance of our retained earnings of $12.745 billion. As of February 14, 2025, we held approximately 478,740 bitcoins that were acquired at an aggregate purchase price of $31.134 billion and an average purchase price of approximately $65,033 per bitcoin, inclusive of fees and expenses. As of February 14, 2025, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, the market price of one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market) was $97,236.98. Overview of the Bitcoin Industry and Market Bitcoin is a digital asset that is issued by and transmitted through an open-source protocol, known as the Bitcoin protocol, collectively maintained by a peer-to-peer network of decentralized user nodes. This network hosts a public transaction ledger, known as the Bitcoin blockchain, on which bitcoin holdings and all validated transactions that have ever taken place on the Bitcoin network are recorded. Balances of bitcoin are stored in individual wallet functions, which associate network public addresses with one or more private keys that control the transfer of bitcoin. The Bitcoin blockchain can be updated without any single entity owning or operating the network. Creation of New Bitcoin and Limits on Supply The Bitcoin protocol limits the total number of bitcoins that can be generated over time to 21 million. As of February 14, 2025, approximately 20.0 million bitcoins have been generated. New bitcoins are created and allocated by the Bitcoin protocol through a mining process that rewards users that validate transactions in the Bitcoin blockchain. Validated transactions are added in blocks approximately every 10 minutes. The mining process serves to validate transactions and secure the Bitcoin network. Mining is a competitive and costly operation that requires a large amount of computational power to solve complex mathematical algorithms. This expenditure of computing power is known as proof of work. To incentivize miners to incur the costs of mining bitcoin, the Bitcoin protocol rewards miners that successfully validate a block of transactions with newly generated bitcoin. The current reward for miners that successfully validate a block of transactions is 3.125 bitcoin per mined block. The mining reward is reduced by half, which is referred to as a bitcoin halving, after every 210,000 blocks are mined. This has historically occurred approximately every four years. The most recent bitcoin halving occurred in April 2024, and the next bitcoin halving is expected to occur sometime in 2028. Modifications to the Bitcoin Protocol Bitcoin is an open-source network that has no central authority, so no one person can unilaterally make changes to the software that runs the network. However, there is a core group of developers that maintains the code for the Bitcoin protocol, and they can propose changes to the source code and release periodic updates and other changes. Unlike most software that has a central entity that can push updates to users, bitcoin is a peer-to-peer network in which individual network participants, called nodes, decide whether to upgrade the software and accept the new changes. As a practical matter, a modification becomes part of the Bitcoin protocol only if the proposed changes are accepted by participants collectively having more than 50% of the processing power, known as hash rate, on the network. If a certain percentage of the nodes reject the changes, then a fork takes place, and participants can choose the version of the software they want to run. Forms of Attack Against the Bitcoin Network and Wallets Blockchain technology has many built-in security features that make it difficult for hackers and other malicious actors to corrupt the protocol or blockchain. However, as with any computer network, the Bitcoin network may be subject to certain attacks. Some forms of attack include unauthorized access to wallets that hold bitcoin and direct attacks, like 51% attacks or denial-of-service attacks on the Bitcoin network. Bitcoin is controllable only by the possessor of both the unique public key and private key(s) relating to the local or online digital wallet in which the bitcoin is held. Private keys used to access bitcoin balances are not widely distributed and are typically held on hardware (which can be physically controlled by the holder or by a third party such as a custodian) or via software programs on third-party servers. One form of obtaining unauthorized access to a wallet occurs following a phishing attack where the attacker deceives the victim and 8 manipulates them into sharing their private keys for their digital wallet or other sensitive information. Other similar attacks may also result in the loss of private keys and the inability to access, and effective loss of, the corresponding bitcoin. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings We face risks relating to the custody of our bitcoin, including the loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoin and cyberattacks or other data loss relating to our bitcoin. A 51% attack may occur when a group of miners attain more than 50% of the Bitcoin networks mining power, thereby enabling them to control the Bitcoin network and protocol and manipulate the blockchain. A denial-of-service attack occurs when legitimate users are unable to access information systems, devices, or other network resources due to the actions of a malicious actor flooding the network with traffic until the network is unable to respond or crashes. The Bitcoin network has been, and can be in the future, subject to denial-of-service attacks, which can result in temporary delays in block creation and in the transfer of bitcoin. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings Bitcoin and other digital assets are novel assets, and are subject to significant legal, commercial, regulatory and technical uncertainty. Bitcoin Industry Participants The primary Bitcoin industry participants are miners, investors and traders, digital asset exchanges and service providers, including custodians, brokers, payment processors, wallet providers and financial institutions. Miners. Miners range from bitcoin enthusiasts to professional mining operations that design and build dedicated mining machines and data centers, including mining pools, which are groups of miners that act cohesively and combine their processing power to mine bitcoin blocks. SeeCreation of New Bitcoin and Limits on Supplyabove. Investors and Traders. Bitcoin investors and traders include individuals and institutional investors who, directly or indirectly, purchase, hold, and sell bitcoin or bitcoin-based derivatives. On January 10, 2024, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued an order approving several applications for the listing and trading of shares of spot bitcoin exchange-traded products (ETPs) on U.S. national securities exchanges. While the SEC had previously approved exchange-traded funds where the underlying assets were bitcoin futures contracts, this order represented the first time the SEC approved the listing and trading of ETPs that acquire, hold and sell bitcoin directly. ETPs can be bought and sold on a stock exchange like traditional stocks, and provide investors with another means of gaining economic exposure to bitcoin through traditional brokerage accounts. Digital Asset Exchanges. Digital asset exchanges provide trading venues for purchases and sales of bitcoin in exchange for fiat or other digital assets. Bitcoin can be exchanged for fiat currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, at rates of exchange determined by market forces on bitcoin trading platforms, which are not regulated in the same manner as traditional securities exchanges. In addition to these platforms, over-the-counter markets and derivatives markets for bitcoin also exist. The value of bitcoin within the market is determined, in part, by the supply of and demand for bitcoin in the global bitcoin market, market expectations for the adoption of bitcoin as a store of value, the number of merchants that accept bitcoin as a form of payment, and the volume of peer-to-peer transactions, among other factors. For a discussion of risks associated with digital asset exchanges, see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and HoldingsDue to the unregulated nature and lack of transparency surrounding the operations of many bitcoin trading venues, bitcoin trading venues may experience greater fraud, security failures or regulatory or operational problems than trading venues for more established asset classes, which may result in a loss of confidence in bitcoin trading venues and adversely affect the value of our bitcoin. Service providers. Service providers offer a multitude of services to other participants in the Bitcoin industry, including custodial and trade execution services, commercial and retail payment processing, loans secured by bitcoin collateral, and financial advisory services. If adoption of the Bitcoin network continues to materially increase, we anticipate that service providers may expand the currently available range of services and that additional parties will enter the service sector for the Bitcoin network. Other Digital Assets As of the date of this Annual Report, bitcoin was the largest digital asset by market capitalization. However, numerous alternative digital assets exist, and many entities, including consortia and financial institutions, are actively researching and investing resources in blockchain platforms and digital assets that utilize consensus mechanisms other than proof-of-work mining, which is employed by the Bitcoin network. For example, in late 2022, the Ethereum network transitioned to a proof-of-stake mechanism for validating transactions that requires significantly less computing power than proof-of-work mining. Other alternative digital assets that compete with bitcoin in certain ways include stablecoins, which are designed to maintain a constant price because of their issuers promise to hold high-quality liquid assets (such as U.S. dollar deposits and short-term U.S. treasury securities) equal to the total value of stablecoins in circulation. Stablecoins have grown rapidly as an alternative to bitcoin and other digital assets as a medium of exchange and store of value, particularly on digital asset trading platforms. As of December 31, 2024, two of the eight largest digital assets by market capitalization were U.S. dollar-backed stablecoins. Additionally, central banks in some countries have started to introduce digital forms of legal tender. For example, Chinas central bank digital currency (CBDC) project was made available to consumers in January 2022, and governments including the United States and the European Union have discussed the potential creation of new CBDCs. For a discussion of risks relating to the emergence of other digital assets, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and HoldingsThe emergence or growth of other 9 digital assets, including those with significant private or public sector backing, could have a negative impact on the price of bitcoin and adversely affect our business. Competition Our bitcoin strategy generally involves from time to time, subject to market conditions, (i) issuing debt or equity securities or engaging in other capital raising transactions with the objective of using the proceeds to purchase bitcoin and (ii) acquiring bitcoin with our liquid assets that exceed working capital requirements. When we engage in such capital raising transactions, we compete for capital with, among others, ETPs, bitcoin miners, digital assets exchanges, other digital assets service providers, other companies that hold bitcoin or other digital assets as treasury reserve assets, private funds that invest in bitcoin and other digital assets, and similar vehicles. An increase in the competition for sources of capital could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing for our bitcoin purchases, and thereby could adversely affect the market price of our listed securities. Custody of our Bitcoin We hold substantially all of our bitcoin in custody accounts at U.S.-based, institutional-grade custodians that have demonstrated records of regulatory compliance and information security. As a result, the primary counterparty risk we are exposed to with respect to our bitcoin is performance obligations under the various custody arrangements into which we have entered. We custody our bitcoin across multiple custodians to diversify our potential risk exposure to any one custodian. Our custodial services contracts do not restrict our ability to reallocate our bitcoin among our custodians, and our bitcoin holdings may be concentrated with a single custodian from time to time. In light of the significant amount of bitcoin we hold, we continually seek to engage additional digital asset custodians to further diversify the custody of our bitcoin. We carefully select the custodians that custody our bitcoin after undertaking a due diligence process. As part of our custodian selection process, we evaluate and select custodians that can demonstrate that they operate with strict security protocols, including multifactor authentication procedures designed to safekeep our bitcoin. In addition, our custodial services agreements generally specify that the private keys that control our bitcoin will be held in offline or cold storage, which is designed to mitigate risks that a system may be susceptible to when connected to the internet, including the risks associated with unauthorized network access and cyberattacks. We also negotiate liability provisions in our custodial contracts, pursuant to which our custodians are held liable for their failure to safekeep our bitcoin. In addition to our custodial arrangements, we also utilize affiliates of our bitcoin custodians to execute bitcoin acquisition and disposition transactions on our behalf. We leverage the due diligence we conduct in connection with our custodial arrangements when conducting due diligence of these trade execution service providers. We also conduct due diligence reviews during the custodial relationship to monitor the safekeeping of our bitcoin. As part of our process, we obtain and review our custodians Services Organization Controls reports. We are also contractually entitled to review our custodians relevant internal controls through a variety of methods. We have in the past conducted, and expect to conduct in the future, supplemental due diligence when we believe it is warranted by market circumstances or otherwise. For example, in response to the collapse of FTX, in 2022 we obtained supporting documentation to verify certain factual information, including documentation and analysis regarding financial solvency, exposure to troubled exchanges, regulatory compliance, security protocols and our ownership of our bitcoin. We negotiate specific contractual terms and conditions with our custodians that we believe will help establish, under existing law, that our property interest in the bitcoin held by our custodians is not subject to the claims of the custodians creditors in the event the custodian enters bankruptcy, receivership or similar insolvency proceedings. All of our custodians are subject to regulatory regimes intended to protect customers in the event that a custodian enters bankruptcy, receivership or similar insolvency proceedings. Based on existing law and the terms and conditions of our contractual arrangements with our custodians, we believe that the bitcoin held on our behalf by our custodians would not be considered part of a custodians bankruptcy estate were one or more of our custodians to enter bankruptcy, receivership or similar insolvency proceedings. For a discussion of risks relating to the custody of our bitcoin, see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and HoldingsOur bitcoin strategy exposes us to various risks, including risks associated with bitcoin, and Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to risk of non-performance by counterparties. Potential Advantages and Disadvantages of Holding Bitcoin We believe that bitcoin is an attractive asset because it can serve as a store of value, supported by a robust and public open-source architecture, that is untethered to sovereign monetary policy. We also believe that, due to its limited supply, bitcoin offers the potential to serve as a hedge against inflation in the long-term and, if its adoption increases, the opportunity for appreciation in value. Bitcoin exists entirely in electronic form, as virtually irreversible public transaction ledger entries on the blockchain, and transactions in bitcoin are recorded and authenticated not by a central repository, but by a decentralized peer-to-peer network. This decentralization mitigates the risks of certain threats common to centralized computer networks, such as denial-of-service attacks, and reduces the dependency of the bitcoin network on any single system. The decentralization of user nodes and miners also mitigates the risk of a 51% attack, which would be very costly and difficult to execute with respect to bitcoin because the Bitcoin network is open source and widely distributed, and transactions on the blockchain require significant computing power to be validated. However, while the Bitcoin network as a whole is decentralized, the private keys used to access bitcoin balances are not widely distributed and are susceptible to phishing 10 and other attacks designed to obtain sensitive information or gain access to password-protected systems. Loss of such private keys can result in an inability to access, and effective loss of, the corresponding bitcoin. Consequently, bitcoin holdings are susceptible to all of the risks inherent in holding any electronic data, such as power failure, data corruption, security breach, communication failure and user error, among others. These risks, in turn, make bitcoin substantially more susceptible to theft, destruction, or loss of value from hackers, corruption, viruses and other technology-specific factors as compared to conventional fiat currency or other conventional financial assets. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and HoldingsIf we or our third-party service providers experience a security breach or cyberattack and unauthorized parties obtain access to our bitcoin, or if our private keys are lost or destroyed, or other similar circumstances or events occur, we may lose some or all of our bitcoin and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Bitcoin network relies on open-source developers to maintain and improve the Bitcoin protocol. Accordingly, bitcoin may be subject to protocol design changes, governance disputes such as forked protocols, competing protocols, and other open source-specific risks that do not affect conventional proprietary software. Government Regulation The laws and regulations applicable to bitcoin and digital assets are evolving and subject to interpretation and change. Governments around the world have reacted differently to digital assets; certain governments have deemed them illegal, and others have allowed their use and trade without restriction, while in some jurisdictions, such as the U.S., digital assets are subject to overlapping, uncertain and evolving regulatory requirements. As digital assets have grown in both popularity and market size, the U.S. Executive Branch, Congress and a number of U.S. federal and state agencies, including the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the IRS and state financial regulators, have been examining the operations of digital asset networks, digital asset users and digital asset exchanges, with particular focus on the extent to which digital assets can be used to violate state or federal laws, including to facilitate the laundering of proceeds of illegal activities or the funding of criminal or terrorist enterprises, and the safety and soundness and consumer-protective safeguards of exchanges or other service-providers that hold, transfer, trade or exchange digital assets for users. Many of these state and federal agencies have issued consumer advisories regarding the risks posed by digital assets to investors. In addition, federal and state agencies, and other countries have issued rules or guidance regarding the treatment of digital asset transactions and requirements for businesses engaged in activities related to digital assets. Depending on the regulatory characterization of bitcoin, the markets for bitcoin in general, and our activities in particular, our business and our bitcoin strategy may be subject to regulation by one or more regulators in the United States and globally. Ongoing and future regulatory actions may alter, to a materially adverse extent, the nature of digital assets markets, the participation of industry participants, including service providers and financial institutions in these markets, and our ability to pursue our bitcoin strategy. Additionally, U.S. state and federal and foreign regulators and legislatures have taken action against industry participants, including digital assets businesses, and enacted restrictive regimes in response to adverse publicity arising from hacks, consumer harm, or criminal activity stemming from digital assets activity. U.S. federal and state energy regulatory authorities are also monitoring the total electricity consumption of cryptocurrency mining, and the potential impacts of cryptocurrency mining to the supply and dispatch functionality of the wholesale grid and retail distribution systems. Many state legislative bodies have passed, or are actively considering, legislation to address the impact of cryptocurrency mining in their respective states. The CFTC takes the position that some digital assets, including bitcoin, fall within the definition of a commodity under the Commodities Exchange Act of 1936, as amended (the CEA). Under the CEA, the CFTC has broad enforcement authority to police market manipulation and fraud in spot digital assets markets in which we may transact. Beyond instances of fraud or manipulation, the CFTC generally does not oversee cash or spot market exchanges or transactions involving digital asset commodities that do not utilize margin, leverage, or financing. In addition, CFTC regulations and CFTC oversight and enforcement authority apply with respect to futures, swaps, other derivative products and certain retail leveraged commodity transactions involving digital asset commodities, including the markets on which these products trade. The SEC and its staff have taken the position that certain other digital assets fall within the definition of a security under the U.S. federal securities laws. Public statements made by senior officials and senior members of the staff at the SEC indicate that the SEC does not consider bitcoin to be a security under the federal securities laws. However, such statements are not official policy statements by the SEC and reflect only the speakers views, which are not binding on the SEC or any other agency or court and cannot be generalized to any other digital assets. In addition, since transactions in bitcoin provide a degree of anonymity, they are susceptible to misuse for criminal activities, such as money laundering. This misuse, or the perception of such misuse, could lead to greater regulatory oversight of bitcoin and Bitcoin platforms, and there is the possibility that law enforcement agencies could close or blacklist bitcoin platforms or other bitcoin-related infrastructure with little or no notice and prevent users from accessing or retrieving bitcoin held via such platforms or infrastructure. For example, the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control has issued updated advisories regarding the use of virtual 11 currencies, added a number of digital asset exchanges and service providers to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list and engaged in several enforcement actions, including a series of enforcement actions that have either shut down or significantly curtailed the operations of several smaller digital asset exchanges associated with Russian and/or North Korean nationals. Additionally, in January 2025, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau announced that it is seeking public input on privacy protections and surveillance in digital payments, particularly those offered through large technology platforms As noted above, activities involving bitcoin and other digital assets may fall within the jurisdiction of more than one financial regulator and various courts and such laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and increasing in scope. On January 23, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order titled, Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology. While the executive order did not mandate the adoption of any specific regulations, the executive order identifies certain key objectives to guide agencies involved in crypto regulation, including (i) protecting the sovereignty of the United States dollar by promoting the development of United States dollar-backed stablecoins, (ii) providing regulatory clarity and certainty built on technology-neutral regulations for individuals and firms involved in digital assets, including through well-defined jurisdictional regulatory boundaries, and (iii) taking measures to protect Americans from the risks of Central Bank Digital Currencies. To achieve these objectives, the executive order established a working group on digital asset markets within the National Economic Council, comprised of representatives from key federal agencies, with a tight timeline for examining existing regulations and proposing a new regulatory framework. There have also been several bills introduced in Congress that propose to establish additional regulation and oversight of the digital asset markets. Enterprise Analytics Software Strategy Strategy is a pioneer in AI-powered business intelligence (BI), and a global leader in enterprise analytics solutions. We provide software and services designed to turn complex, chaotic data environments into rich, reliable, and convenient information feeds for our customers. Our vision is to drive growth and competitive advantage for our customers by delivering Intelligence Everywhere. Our cloud-native flagship, Strategy One, powers some of the largest analytics deployments in the world for customers spanning a wide range of industries, including retail, banking, technology, manufacturing, insurance, consulting, healthcare, telecommunications, and the public sector. Integral to the Strategy One platform are Generative AI capabilities that are designed to automate and accelerate the deployment of AI-enabled applications across the enterprise. By making advanced analytics accessible through conversational AI, Strategy One provides non-technical users with timely, actionable insights for decision-making. The Strategy One Platform Strategy One combines the flexibility and scalability afforded by a modern, cloud application with the reliability and security of our robust data governance model. It empowers users by making rich analytics easily accessible and personalized, while enabling organizations to harness the value of their data wherever it is needed. Key Capabilities and Competitive Differentiators: Our key capabilities and competitive differentiators include the following: 1. Built for the cloud. Our cloud-native, containerized architecture has been optimized for all three hyperscalers AWS, Azure, and GCP giving our customers freedom of choice and making it easy to embed analytics into custom or third-party cloud and mobile applications. 2. Auto, the AI assistant. Our AI bot, Auto, simplifies and automates complex functions using a natural language interface, including SQL generation, dashboard creation, data discovery and advanced analytics like forecasting and key driver analysis. Auto is designed to make analytics accessible to non-technical users and extend data-driven decision making across the organization. With Auto, customers also can build their own fully customized bot for any application in a matter of minutes. 3. HyperIntelligence. This innovative feature presents context-based, click-free insights to the user by hovering over keywords on the screen. It can be implemented on mobile, web, or custom applications to enrich understanding and streamline workflows. 4. Our Enterprise Semantic Graph is a powerful metadata layer that helps ensure data insights are trustworthy regardless of how far-reaching the applications and users of data may reside. 5. Flexible deployment. Customers can choose to deploy our platform on premises, using their own cloud environment, or through our fully managed cloud environments for commercial or government use. 6. Open and interoperable.Developers can leverage scripts, APIs, and 200+ connectors (local and cloud) to embed the platform or build predictive, machine learning-enhanced data models on top of a secure and trusted foundation. 12 FedRAMP Authorization Strategys cloud solution for government is authorized to operate under the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) guidelines, which certifies compliance with essential cloud security and data protection standards set by the U.S. Federal government. The solution offers always-on threat monitoring that meets the rigorous technical and regulatory needs of governments and financial institutions worldwide. Strategys government cloud solution achieved this designation through collaboration with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Strategy Professional Services Strategy Support Our global network of Strategy-certified technical support experts help our customers achieve their system availability and usage goals through highly responsive troubleshooting and assistance. Standard support is included in every maintenance plan or subscription license. Premium support options are also available for extended coverage and enhanced service at each touchpoint. Strategy Consulting Many companies lack the internal expertise needed to design solutions for managing and optimizing their data stores. Strategy consultants deliver architecture and implementation services to help customers realize their desired results. With thousands of successful projects delivered to customers worldwide, our consultants apply industry best practices to define, develop, and deliver AI-powered analytics solutions for virtually any business intelligence need. Strategy Education To help organizations maximize the adoption and performance of their Strategy solutions, the Strategy education team offers free and paid learning options, available worldwide in multiple languages and a variety of formatsboth in person and online, live and on-demand. Sales and Marketing Licensing Models Strategy sells its software platform under two pricing models: (i) simple user-based subscriptions for cloud-based deployments, and (ii) legacy enterprise software licensing for on premise deployments. Subscriptions for cloud-based deployments typically are for 36 months and include standard support. Enterprise software license terms are often perpetual, but term licenses typically range from 12 to 36 months and include standard support and maintenance for the term of the license. Premium support services are available with either licensing model for added fees. Dedicated Sales and Customer Success Teams Strategy sells its offerings chiefly through a direct sales force, with sales offices throughout the world. We also support customers post-sale through a dedicated Customer Success team that manages the customer lifecycle, from onboarding and training through license renewal and expansion. This separation allows our Sales team to focus on new business development and acquisition, while our Customer Success team focuses on customer experience, satisfaction, and lifetime value. Strategic Partnerships Strategy has established strategic partnerships with a wide variety of third-party vendors, including cloud hosting providers (AWS, Microsoft, STACKIT, and Google), system integrators, consulting firms, value added resellers (VARs), managed service providers (MSPs), and independent software vendors (ISVs). These firms resell, support, or extend the Strategy platform for a variety of commercial purposes, and our agreements with them generally provide non-exclusive rights to our software, marketing materials, product training, and direct sales force for field-level assistance. We make significant financial investments with our channel partners, including technical training, certifications, pre-sales and sales enablement, and co-marketing programs. Through our joint efforts, we believe customers can minimize their risk and maximize the return on their business intelligence projects. Our channel partners allow us to extend sales and service coverage and industry-specific expertise across regions, languages, and business types. Marketing 13 Strategys marketing programs target the following principal audiences: technology and line-of-business executives across large, global enterprises and mid-size organizations; government technology buyers and vendors to the government community; ISVs that want to embed analytics technology in their applications; and system integrators that have technology relationships with large enterprises, governments, and information-intensive businesses. The channels we use to reach prospective buyers and partners include digital and social media, search and display advertising, industry and hosted events, webinars, email, partner co-marketing activities, and educational forums. Competition The analytics market is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology and market conditions. For enterprise analytics, Strategy competes with global ISVs, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Salesforce, and SAP. Our ability to compete successfully depends on various factors within and outside of our control. Some of these factors include software quality, performance and reliability; the quality of our service and support teams; marketing and prospecting effectiveness; the ability to incorporate artificial intelligence and other technically advanced features; and our ability to differentiate our products. Failure to perform in these or other areas may reduce the demand for our offerings and materially adversely affect our revenue from both existing and prospective customers. Government Regulation Aspects of our business involve collecting, processing, disclosing, storing, and transmitting personal data, which are subject to certain privacy policies, contractual obligations, and U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and directives relating to privacy and data protection. There are a broad variety of other data protection laws in the United States that are or may be applicable to our activities, and a wide range of enforcement agencies at both the state and federal levels that can review companies for privacy and data security concerns based on general consumer protection laws. The Federal Trade Commission and state Attorneys General all are aggressive in reviewing privacy and data security protections for consumers. New laws also are being considered at both the state and federal levels. A broad range of legislative measures also have been introduced at the federal level. Accordingly, failure to comply with federal and state laws (both those currently in effect and future legislation) regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to fines and penalties under such laws. In the event of a security breach, we also may have obligations to notify our customers or other parties or individuals about this breach, and this can lead to significant costs and the risk of potential enforcement and/or litigation. There is also a threat of consumer class actions related to these laws and the overall protection of personal data. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our reputation and our business. There are similar laws in other countries, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union which imposes requirements regarding the handling and security of personal data, requires disclosure of data breaches to individuals, customers, and data protection authorities in certain circumstances, requires companies to honor data subjects requests relating to their personal data, permits regulators to impose fines of up to 20,000,000 or 4% of global annual revenue, whichever is higher, and establishes a private right of action. In addition to these specific laws, we also are subject to other privacy, security, and data protection laws around the world. In addition to the laws in place already, other countries are also considering new or expanded laws governing privacy and data security that may impact our business practices. These laws may impact our ongoing business activities and our relationships with our business partners, customers and service providers. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress is considering comprehensive privacy legislation. At this time, it is unclear whether Congress will pass such a law and if so, when and what it will require and prohibit. Moreover, it is not clear whether any such legislation would give the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) any new authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act in the first instance, whether Congress will grant the FTC rulemaking authority over privacy and information security, or whether Congress will vest some or all privacy and data security regulatory authority and enforcement power in a new agency, akin to EU data protection authorities. Employees As of December 31, 2024, we had a total of 1,534 employees, of whom 453 were based in the United States and 1,081 were based internationally. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union; however, employees of certain of our foreign subsidiaries are members of trade or local unions. For example, in France, our employees are represented by a works council as required by local law. We have not experienced any work stoppages and generally consider our relations with our employees to be good. 14 The following table summarizes employee headcount as of the dates indicated: December 31, December 31, December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Subscription services 95 100 110 Product support 163 154 183 Consulting 275 399 447 Education 11 13 16 Sales and marketing 295 390 434 Research and development 498 642 688 General and administrative 197 236 274 Total headcount 1,534 1,934 2,152 We recognize and value the contribution of all our employees. Due to their dedication, hard work, loyalty, and commitment, we have had continued success as a company. Our philosophy is to create an agile, evolving environment that allows all of our employees to grow and thrive, with initiatives and platforms that reward and recognize employees for their hard work and commitment to delivering personal excellence and creativity at Strategy. Our human capital management objectives are to attract, retain, and develop leading talent to deliver on our business strategies. To accomplish these objectives, we constantly strive to understand the drivers of talent attraction, retention, and sustainable engagement with our employees in each of the geographies in which we operate. As part of this process, we regularly benchmark the benefits we offer our employees against those offered within our industry generally and the local markets in which we operate. During 2024, we continued to offer our equity compensation programs worldwide to provide our employees with greater opportunities to share in any appreciation of our class A common stock. In addition, we pride ourselves on preparing a highly skilled workforce through technical boot camps, regular training workshops, and a variety of other learning experiences. Our initiative-driven teams work with a modern technology stack, and they meet and learn from some of the most experienced innovators in their field. Through these efforts we seek to create an environment in which our employees can flourish, respond quickly to client demand and enhance their connections with colleagues and towards the communities they are a part of globally. Available Information Our website is located at www.strategy.com. We make available free of charge, on or through the Investor Relations section of our website (www.strategy.com/investor-relations), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such reports with the SEC. Information found on our website is not part of this Annual Report or any other report filed with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file or furnish electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also maintain a dashboard on our website (www.strategy.com) as a disclosure channel for providing broad, non-exclusionary distribution of information regarding the Company to the public, including information regarding market prices of our outstanding securities, bitcoin purchases and holdings, certain KPI metrics and other supplemental information, and as one means of disclosing non-public information in compliance with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Investors and others are encouraged to regularly review the information that we make public via the website dashboard. 15 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact us, our business, our bitcoin holdings, or our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the market price of our class A common stock and our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as our listed securities, could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. On August 7, 2024, we completed a 10-for-1 stock split of our class A and class B common stock. See Note 2(a), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information. As a result of the stock split, all applicable share and per share information presented within this Item 1A. Risk Factors has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. Risks Related to Our Business in General Our quarterly operating results, revenues, and expenses may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our listed securities For many reasons, including those described below, our operating results, revenues, and expenses have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our listed securities. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, in part, as a result of: fluctuations in the price of bitcoin, of which we have significant holdings and with respect to which we expect to continue to make significant future purchases, and potential fair value changes associated therewith; any sales by us of our bitcoin at prices above or below their carrying value, which would result in our recording gains or losses upon sale of our bitcoin; the incurrence of tax liabilities on future unrealized gains on our bitcoin or as result of the cumulative-effect net increase of $12.745 billion to the opening balance of our retained earnings as of January 1, 2025 in connection with the adoption of ASU 2023-08; regulatory, commercial, and technical developments related to bitcoin or the Bitcoin blockchain, or digital assets more generally; the incurrence of additional fixed interest charges or dividend obligations on preferred stock; the impact of war, terrorism, infectious diseases (such as COVID-19), natural disasters and other global events, and government responses to such events, on the global economy and the market for and price of bitcoin; significant changes to our software business, including significant changes in our software sales or operating expenses, or the timing of announcements of new offerings or research and development projects by us or our competitors; our profitability and expectations for future profitability and their effect on our deferred tax balances and net income for the period in which any adjustment to our net deferred tax asset valuation allowance may be made; and increases or decreases in our unrecognized tax benefits. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends and strategic objectives. Many of our expenses, such as interest expense on our debt, dividend obligations on our preferred stock, tax liabilities, office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected shortfall in our cash flow. Accordingly, we may be required to take actions to pay expenses, such as selling bitcoin or using proceeds from equity or debt financings, some of which could cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the above factors, we believe quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our listed securities may fall. 16 We may not be able to regain profitability in future periods We generated a net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to $1.790 billion of digital asset impairment losses. We may not be able to regain profitability in future periods, particularly if we incur significant fair value losses related to our digital assets. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2024, we had $1.525 billion of deferred tax assets. The largest deferred tax asset relates to the impairment on our bitcoin holdings, which was reversed upon our adoption of ASU 2023-08. If the market value of bitcoin at a future reporting date is less than the average cost basis of our bitcoin holdings at such reporting date, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets. A significant increase in the valuation allowance could result in a charge that would materially adversely affect net income in the period in which the charge is incurred. A significant decrease in the market value of our bitcoin holdings could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations As of December 31, 2024, our outstanding indebtedness was $7.274 billion, and our annual contractual interest expense was $35.1 million. Additionally, as of February 14, 2025, we had outstanding series A perpetual strike preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $730.0 million in the aggregate, with respect to which we are required to pay annual dividends of $58.4 million, which we can pay in cash or shares of our class A common stock. As part of our bitcoin strategy, we expect to incur or continue to incur additional indebtedness and other fixed charges. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our enterprise analytics software business did not generate positive cash flow from operations. If our enterprise analytics software business does not generate cash flow in future periods sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations, including our debt and cash dividend obligations, we intend to fund our obligations using cash flow generated by equity or debt financings. Our ability to obtain equity or debt financing may in turn depend on, among other factors, the value of our bitcoin holdings, investor sentiment and the general public perception of bitcoin, our strategy and our value proposition. Accordingly, a significant decline in the market value of our bitcoin holdings or a negative shift in these other factors may create liquidity and credit risks, as such a decline or such shifts may adversely impact our ability to secure sufficient equity or debt financing to satisfy our financial obligations, including our debt and cash dividend obligations. These risks could materialize at times when bitcoin is trading below its carrying value on our most recent balance sheet or our cost basis. As bitcoin constitutes the vast bulk of assets on our balance sheet, if we are unable to secure equity or debt financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all, we may be required to sell bitcoin to satisfy these obligations. Any such sale of bitcoin may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, and could impair our ability to secure additional equity or debt financing in the future. Our inability to secure additional equity or debt financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all, or to sell our bitcoin in amounts and at prices sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations, including our debt service and cash dividend obligations, could cause us to default under such obligations. Any default on our current or future indebtedness or preferred stock may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Risks Related to Our Outstanding and Potential Future Indebtedness and Risks Related to Our Series A Perpetual Strike Preferred Stock for additional details about the risks which may impact us if we are unable to satisfy our debt service and cash dividend obligations. Unrealized fair value gains on our bitcoin holdings could cause us to become subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 The U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) in August 2022. Unless an exemption applies, the IRA imposes a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) on a corporation with respect to an initial tax year and subsequent tax years, if the average annual adjusted financial statement income for any consecutive three-tax-year period preceding the initial tax year exceeds $1 billion. On September 12, 2024, the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations with respect to the application of the CAMT. On January 1, 2025, we adopted ASU 2023-08. ASU 2023-08 requires us to measure our bitcoin holdings at fair value in our statement of financial position, with gains and losses from changes in the fair value of our bitcoin recognized in net income each reporting period. As a result of our adoption of ASU 2023-08, as of January 1, 2025, we are required to apply a cumulative-effect net increase to the opening balance of our retained earnings of $12.745 billion. For purposes of calculating the adjusted financial statement income, we will be required to ratably allocate from 2025 through 2028 this increase to our retained earnings. When determining whether we are subject to CAMT and when calculating any related tax liability for an applicable tax year, the proposed regulations provide that, among other adjustments, our adjusted financial statement income must include this ratable amount in addition to any unrealized gains or losses reported in the applicable tax year. Accordingly, as a result of the enactment of the IRA and our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025, unless the IRA is amended or the proposed regulations with respect to CAMT, when finalized, are revised to provide relief (or other interim relief is granted), we could become subject to the CAMT in the 2026 tax year and beyond. If we become subject to the CAMT, it could result in a material tax obligation that we would need to satisfy in cash, which could materially affect our financial results, including our earnings and cash flow, and our financial condition. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities 17 We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in a variety of domestic and foreign jurisdictions. Our future income tax liability could be materially adversely affected by earnings that are lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates, earnings that are higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of our unrecognized tax benefits, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, if we sold any of our bitcoin at prices greater than the cost basis of the bitcoin sold, we would incur a tax liability with respect to any gain recognized, and such tax liability could be material. Changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to combat base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. These changes, many of which have been adopted or are under active consideration by OECD members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. After enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, most of our income is taxable in the U.S. with a significant portion taxable under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) regime. Beginning in fiscal year 2027, the deduction allowable under the GILTI regime will decrease from 50% to 37.5%, which will increase the effective tax rate imposed on our income. The U.S. also enacted the IRA in August 2022. On September 12, 2024, the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations with respect to the application of the CAMT. Unless an exemption applies, the IRA imposes (i) a 1% excise tax on certain stock repurchases made by publicly traded U.S. corporations, and (ii) a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax on a corporation with respect to an initial tax year and subsequent tax years, if the average annual adjusted financial statement income for any consecutive three-tax-year period preceding the initial tax year exceeds $1 billion. As discussed in greater detail under the risk factor heading Risks Related to Our Business in GeneralUnrealized fair value gains on our bitcoin holdings could cause us to become subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, as a result of the enactment of the IRA and our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025, unless the IRA is amended or the proposed regulations with respect to CAMT are, when finalized, revised to provide relief (or other interim relief is granted), we could become subject to the CAMT in the 2026 tax year and beyond. If we become subject to these new taxes under the IRA for these or any other reasons, it could result in a material tax obligation that we would need to satisfy in cash, which could materially affect our financial results, including our earnings and cash flow, and our financial condition. Further, other existing U.S. tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied in a manner that negatively impacts us. Our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such reviews could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations, including in respect of transactions involving bitcoin, where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, as a multinational business, we have subsidiaries that engage in many intercompany transactions in a variety of tax jurisdictions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We also have contingent tax liabilities that, in managements judgment, are not probable of assertion. If such unasserted contingent liabilities were to be asserted, or become probable of assertion, we may be required to record significant expenses and liabilities in the period in which these liabilities are asserted or become probable of assertion. As a result of these and other factors, the ultimate amount of tax obligations owed may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and any such difference may materially affect our financial results in future periods in which we change our estimates of our tax obligations or in which the ultimate tax outcome is determined. Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to various risks, including risks associated with bitcoin Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to various risks, including the following: Bitcoin is a highly volatile asset. Bitcoin is a highly volatile asset that has traded below $50,000 per bitcoin and above $105,000 per bitcoin on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market for bitcoin) in the 12 months preceding the date of this Annual Report. The trading price of bitcoin significantly decreased during prior periods, and such declines may occur again in the future. Bitcoin does not pay interest or dividends. Bitcoin does not pay interest or other returns and we can only generate cash from our bitcoin holdings if we sell our bitcoin or implement strategies to create income streams or otherwise generate cash by using our bitcoin holdings. Even if we pursue any such strategies, we may be unable to create income streams or otherwise generate cash from our bitcoin holdings, and any such strategies may subject us to additional risks. Our bitcoin holdings significantly impact our financial results and the market price of our listed securities. Our bitcoin holdings have significantly affected our financial results and if we continue to increase our overall holdings of bitcoin in the future, they will have an even greater impact on our financial results and the market price of our listed securities. See Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and 18 Holdings Our historical financial statements do not reflect the potential variability in earnings that we may experience in the future relating to our bitcoin holdings. Our assets are concentrated in bitcoin. The vast majority of our assets are concentrated in our bitcoin holdings. The concentration of our assets in bitcoin limits our ability to mitigate risk that could otherwise be achieved by holding a more diversified portfolio of treasury assets. We purchase bitcoin using primarily proceeds from equity and debt financings. Our ability to achieve the objectives of our bitcoin strategy depends in significant part on our ability to obtain equity and debt financing. If we are unable to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully execute on our bitcoin strategy. Our bitcoin strategy has not been tested over an extended period of time or under different market conditions. We are continually examining the risks and rewards of our strategy to acquire and hold bitcoin. This strategy has not been tested over an extended period of time or under different market conditions. For example, although we believe bitcoin, due to its limited supply, has the potential to serve as a hedge against inflation in the long term, the short-term price of bitcoin declined in recent periods during which the inflation rate increased. If bitcoin prices were to decrease or our bitcoin strategy otherwise proves unsuccessful, our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our listed securities would be materially adversely impacted. We are subject to counterparty risks, including in particular risks relating to our custodians. Although we have implemented various measures that are designed to mitigate our counterparty risks, including by storing substantially all of the bitcoin we own in custody accounts at U.S.-based, institutional-grade custodians and negotiating contractual arrangements intended to establish that our property interest in custodially-held bitcoin is not subject to claims of our custodians creditors, applicable insolvency law is not fully developed with respect to the holding of digital assets in custodial accounts. If our custodially-held bitcoin were nevertheless considered to be the property of our custodians estates in the event that any such custodians were to enter bankruptcy, receivership or similar insolvency proceedings, we could be treated as a general unsecured creditor of such custodians, inhibiting our ability to exercise ownership rights with respect to such bitcoin, or delaying or hindering our access to our bitcoin holdings, and this may ultimately result in the loss of the value related to some or all of such bitcoin, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as well as the market price of our listed securities. The broader digital assets industry is subject to counterparty risks, which could adversely impact the adoption rate, price, and use of bitcoin. A series of recent high-profile bankruptcies, closures, liquidations, regulatory enforcement actions and other events relating to companies operating in the digital asset industry have highlighted the counterparty risks applicable to owning and transacting in digital assets. Although these bankruptcies, closures, liquidations and other events have not resulted in any loss or misappropriation of our bitcoin, nor have such events adversely impacted our access to our bitcoin, they have, in the short-term, likely negatively impacted the adoption rate and use of bitcoin. Additional bankruptcies, closures, liquidations, regulatory enforcement actions or other events involving participants in the digital assets industry in the future may further negatively impact the adoption rate, price, and use of bitcoin, limit the availability to us of financing collateralized by bitcoin, or create or expose additional counterparty risks. Changes in the accounting treatment of our bitcoin holdings could have significant accounting impacts, including increasing the volatility of our results. We have adopted ASU 2023-08 as of January 1, 2025, which requires us to measure our bitcoin holdings at fair value in our statement of financial position, and to recognize gains and losses from changes in the fair value of our bitcoin in net income each reporting period beginning January 1, 2025. ASU 2023-08 also requires us to provide certain interim and annual disclosures with respect to our bitcoin holdings. The standard is now effective, and we have applied a cumulative-effect net increase to the opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2025 of $12.745 billion. Due in particular to the volatility in the price of bitcoin, we expect the adoption of ASU 2023-08 to have a material impact on our financial results in future periods, increase the volatility of our financial results, and affect the carrying value of our bitcoin on our balance sheet. As described in greater detail under the risk factor heading Risks Related to Our Business in GeneralUnrealized fair value gains on our bitcoin holdings could cause us to become subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, ASU 2023-08 could also have adverse tax consequences. These impacts could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our listed securities. Additionally, as a result of ASU 2023-08 requiring a cumulative-effect adjustment to our opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2025 and not permitting retrospective restatement of our historical financial statements, our future results will not be comparable to results from periods prior to our adoption of the guidance. The broader digital assets industry, including the technology associated with digital assets, the rate of adoption and development of, and use cases for, digital assets, market perception of digital assets, and the legal, regulatory, and accounting treatment of digital assets are constantly developing and changing, and there may be additional risks in the future that are not possible to predict. Bitcoin is a highly volatile asset, and fluctuations in the price of bitcoin have in the past influenced and are likely to continue to influence our financial results and the market price of our listed securities Bitcoin is a highly volatile asset, and fluctuations in the price of bitcoin have in the past influenced and are likely to continue to influence our financial results and the market price of our listed securities. Our financial results and the market price of our listed securities would 19 be adversely affected, and our business and financial condition would be negatively impacted, if the price of bitcoin decreased substantially (as it has in the past, including during 2022), including as a result of: decreased user and investor confidence in bitcoin, including due to the various factors described herein; investment and trading activities, such as (i) trading activities of highly active retail and institutional users, speculators, miners and investors; (ii) actual or expected significant dispositions of bitcoin by large holders, including the expected liquidation of digital assets associated with entities that have filed for bankruptcy protection and the transfer and sale of bitcoins associated with significant hacks, seizures, or forfeitures, such as the transfers of bitcoin to (a) creditors of the hacked cryptocurrency exchange Mt. Gox which began in July 2024, (b) claimants following proceedings related to a 2016 hack of Bitfinexwhich claims are currently being adjudicated, (c) the German government following the seizure of about 50,000 bitcoin in January 2024 from the operator of Movie2k.to, or (d) the Northern District Court of California granting the U.S. Department of Justice in January 2025 the right to liquidate 69,370 bitcoin seized from the Silk Road marketplace; and (iii) actual or perceived manipulation of the spot or derivative markets for bitcoin or spot bitcoin exchange-traded products (ETPs); negative publicity, media or social media coverage, or sentiment due to events in or relating to, or perception of, bitcoin or the broader digital assets industry, for example, (i) public perception that bitcoin can be used as a vehicle to circumvent sanctions, including sanctions imposed on Russia or certain regions related to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, or to fund criminal or terrorist activities, such as the purported use of digital assets by Hamas to fund its terrorist attack against Israel in October 2023; (ii) expected or pending civil, criminal, regulatory enforcement or other high profile actions against major participants in the bitcoin ecosystem, including the SECs enforcement actions against Coinbase, Inc. and Binance Holdings Ltd.; (iii) additional filings for bankruptcy protection or bankruptcy proceedings of major digital asset industry participants, such as the bankruptcy proceeding of FTX Trading and its affiliates; and (iv) the actual or perceived environmental impact of bitcoin and related activities, including environmental concerns raised by private individuals, governmental and non-governmental organizations, and other actors related to the energy resources consumed in the bitcoin mining process; changes in consumer preferences and the perceived value or prospects of bitcoin; competition from other digital assets that exhibit better speed, security, scalability, or energy efficiency, that feature other more favored characteristics, that are backed by governments, including the U.S. government, or reserves of fiat currencies, or that represent ownership or security interests in physical assets; a decrease in the price of other digital assets, including stablecoins, or the crash or unavailability of stablecoins that are used as a medium of exchange for bitcoin purchase and sale transactions, such as the crash of the stablecoin Terra USD in 2022, to the extent the decrease in the price of such other digital assets or the unavailability of such stablecoins may cause a decrease in the price of bitcoin or adversely affect investor confidence in digital assets generally; the identification of Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous person or persons who developed bitcoin, or the transfer of substantial amounts of bitcoin from bitcoin wallets attributed to Mr. Nakamoto; developments relating to the Bitcoin protocol, including (i) changes to the Bitcoin protocol that impact its security, speed, scalability, usability, or value, such as changes to the cryptographic security protocol underpinning the Bitcoin blockchain, changes to the maximum number of bitcoin outstanding, changes to the mutability of transactions, changes relating to the size of blockchain blocks, and similar changes, (ii) failures to make upgrades to the Bitcoin protocol to adapt to security, technological, legal or other challenges, and (iii) changes to the Bitcoin protocol that introduce software bugs, security risks or other elements that adversely affect bitcoin; disruptions, failures, unavailability, or interruptions in service of trading venues for bitcoin, such as, for example, the announcement by the digital asset exchange FTX Trading that it would freeze withdrawals and transfers from its accounts and subsequent filing for bankruptcy protection and the SEC enforcement action brought against Binance Holdings Ltd., which initially sought to freeze all of its assets during the pendency of the enforcement action and has since resulted in Binance discontinuing all fiat deposits and withdrawals in the U.S.; the filing for bankruptcy protection by, liquidation of, or market concerns about the financial viability of digital asset custodians, trading venues, lending platforms, investment funds, or other digital asset industry participants, such as the filing for bankruptcy protection by digital asset trading venues FTX Trading and BlockFi and digital asset lending platforms Celsius Network and Voyager Digital Holdings in 2022, the ordered liquidation of the digital asset investment fund Three Arrows Capital in 2022, the announced liquidation of Silvergate Bank in 2023, the government-mandated closure and sale of Signature Bank in 2023, the placement of Prime Trust, LLC into receivership following a cease-and-desist order issued by the Nevada Department of Business and Industry in 2023, and the exit of Binance from the U.S. market as part of its settlement with the Department of Justice and other federal regulatory agencies; regulatory, legislative, enforcement and judicial actions that adversely affect the price, ownership, transferability, trading volumes, legality or public perception of bitcoin, or that adversely affect the operations of or otherwise prevent digital asset 20 custodians, trading venues, lending platforms or other digital assets industry participants from operating in a manner that allows them to continue to deliver services to the digital assets industry; further reductions in mining rewards of bitcoin, including due to block reward halving events, which are events that occur after a specific period of time (the most recent of which occurred in April 2024) that reduce the block reward earned by miners who validate bitcoin transactions, or increases in the costs associated with bitcoin mining, including increases in electricity costs and hardware and software used in mining, or new or enhanced regulation or taxation of bitcoin mining, which could further increase the costs associated with bitcoin mining, any of which may cause a decline in support for the Bitcoin network; transaction congestion and fees associated with processing transactions on the Bitcoin network; macroeconomic changes, such as changes in the level of interest rates and inflation, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, trade restrictions, and fiat currency devaluations; developments in mathematics or technology, including in digital computing, algebraic geometry and quantum computing, that could result in the cryptography used by the Bitcoin blockchain becoming insecure or ineffective; and changes in national and international economic and political conditions, including, without limitation, federal government policies, trade tariffs and trade disputes, the adverse impacts attributable to the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the economic sanctions adopted in response to the conflict, and the broadening of the Israel-Hamas conflict to other countries in the Middle East. Bitcoin and other digital assets are novel assets, and are subject to significant legal, commercial, regulatory and technical uncertainty Bitcoin and other digital assets are relatively novel and are subject to significant uncertainty, which could adversely impact their price. The application of state and federal securities laws and other laws and regulations to digital assets is unclear in certain respects, and it is possible that regulators in the United States or foreign countries may interpret or apply existing laws and regulations in a manner that adversely affects the price of bitcoin or the ability of individuals or institutions such as us to own or transfer bitcoin. The U.S. federal government, states, regulatory agencies, and foreign countries may also enact new laws and regulations, or pursue regulatory, legislative, enforcement or judicial actions, that could materially impact the price of bitcoin or the ability of individuals or institutions such as us to own or transfer bitcoin. For example, within the past several years: President Trump signed an executive order instructing a working group comprised of representatives from key federal agencies to evaluate measures that can be taken to provide regulatory clarity and certainty built on technology-neutral regulations for individuals and firms involved in digital assets, including through well-defined jurisdictional regulatory boundaries; the European Union adopted Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA), a comprehensive digital asset regulatory framework for the issuance and use of digital assets, like bitcoin; in June 2023, the SEC filed complaints against Binance Holdings Ltd. and Coinbase, Inc., and their respective affiliated entities, relating to, among other claims, that each party was operating as an unregistered securities exchange, broker, dealer, and clearing agency; in November 2023, the SEC filed a complaint against Payward Inc. and Payward Ventures Inc., together known as Kraken, alleging, among other claims, that Krakens crypto trading platform was operating as an unregistered securities exchange, broker, dealer, and clearing agency; in June 2023, the United Kingdom adopted and implemented the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (FSMA 2023), which regulates market activities in cryptoassets; in November 2023, Binance Holdings Ltd. and its then chief executive officer reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice, CFTC, the U.S. Department of Treasurys Office of Foreign Asset Control, and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to resolve a multi-year investigation by the agencies and a civil suit brought by the CFTC, pursuant to which Binance Holdings Ltd. agreed to, among other things, pay $4.3 billion in penalties across the four agencies and to discontinue its operations in the United States; and in China, the Peoples Bank of China and the National Development and Reform Commission have outlawed cryptocurrency mining and declared all cryptocurrency transactions illegal within the country. It is not possible to predict whether, or when, new laws will be enacted that change the legal framework governing digital assets or provide additional authorities to the SEC or other regulators, or whether, or when, any other federal, state or foreign legislative bodies will take any similar actions. It is also not possible to predict the nature of any such additional laws or authorities, how additional legislation or regulatory oversight might impact the ability of digital asset markets to function, the willingness of financial and other institutions to continue to provide services to the digital assets industry, or how any new laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws 21 or regulations, might impact the value of digital assets generally and bitcoin specifically. The consequences of any new law or regulation relating to digital assets and digital asset activities could adversely affect the market price of bitcoin, as well as our ability to hold or transact in bitcoin, and in turn adversely affect the market price of our listed securities. Moreover, the risks of engaging in a bitcoin strategy are relatively novel and have created, and could continue to create, complications due to the lack of experience that third parties have with companies engaging in such a strategy, such as increased costs of director and officer liability insurance or the potential inability to obtain such coverage on acceptable terms in the future. The growth of the digital assets industry in general, and the use and acceptance of bitcoin in particular, may also impact the price of bitcoin and is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The pace of worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoin may depend, for instance, on public familiarity with digital assets, ease of buying, accessing or gaining exposure to bitcoin, institutional demand for bitcoin as an investment asset, the participation of traditional financial institutions in the digital assets industry, consumer demand for bitcoin as a store of value or means of payment, and the availability and popularity of alternatives to bitcoin. Even if growth in bitcoin adoption occurs in the near or medium-term, there is no assurance that bitcoin usage will continue to grow over the long-term. Because bitcoin has no physical existence beyond the record of transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain, a variety of technical factors related to the Bitcoin blockchain could also impact the price of bitcoin. For example, malicious attacks by miners, inadequate mining fees to incentivize validating of bitcoin transactions, hard forks of the Bitcoin blockchain into multiple blockchains, and advances in digital computing, algebraic geometry, and quantum computing could undercut the integrity of the Bitcoin blockchain and negatively affect the price of bitcoin. The liquidity of bitcoin may also be reduced and damage to the public perception of bitcoin may occur, if financial institutions were to deny or limit banking services to businesses that hold bitcoin, provide bitcoin-related services or accept bitcoin as payment, which could also decrease the price of bitcoin. Actions by U.S. banking regulators, such as the issuance in February 2023 by Federal banking agencies of the Interagency Liquidity Risk Statement, which cautioned banks on contagion risks posed by providing services to digital assets customers, and similar actions, have in the past resulted in or contributed to reductions in access to banking services for bitcoin-related customers and service providers, or the willingness of traditional financial institution to participate in markets for digital assets. The liquidity of bitcoin may also be impacted to the extent that changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements negatively impact the ability of exchanges and trading venues to provide services for bitcoin and other digital assets. Our historical financial statements do not reflect the potential variability in earnings that we may experience in the future relating to our bitcoin holdings Our historical financial statements do not fully reflect the potential variability in earnings that we may experience in the future from holding or selling significant amounts of bitcoin. The price of bitcoin has historically been subject to dramatic price fluctuations and is highly volatile. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-08, which we adopted as of January 1, 2025. We determine the fair value of our bitcoin based on quoted (unadjusted) prices on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market for bitcoin). Prior to our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025, we performed an analysis each quarter to identify whether events or changes in circumstances, principally decreases in the quoted (unadjusted) prices on the active exchange, indicated that it was more likely than not that any of our bitcoin assets were impaired. In determining if an impairment had occurred, we considered the lowest price of one bitcoin quoted on the active exchange at any time since acquiring the specific bitcoin held. If the carrying value of a bitcoin exceeded that lowest price at any time during the quarter, an impairment loss was deemed to have occurred with respect to that bitcoin in the amount equal to the difference between its carrying value and such lowest price, and subsequent increases in the price of bitcoin did not affect the carrying value of our bitcoin. Gains (if any) were not recorded until realized upon sale, at which point they would be presented net of any impairment losses. In determining the gain to be recognized upon sale, we calculated the difference between the sale price and carrying value of the specific bitcoin sold immediately prior to sale. Due in part to the volatility of bitcoin, we incurred $4.059 billion of cumulative impairment on our bitcoin holdings through December 31, 2024, which losses were reflected in the financial statements for the respective periods in which the losses were incurred. ASU 2023-08 requires us to measure our bitcoin holdings at fair value in our statement of financial position, and to recognize gains and losses from changes in the fair value of our bitcoin in net income each reporting period. ASU 2023-08 also requires us to provide certain interim and annual disclosures with respect to our bitcoin holdings. We have applied a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2025 of $12.745 billion. ASU 2023-08 does not permit retrospective restatement of prior periods. Accordingly, we expect the adoption of ASU 2023-08 to significantly affect the carrying value of our bitcoin on our balance sheet. As a result of our adoption of ASU 2023-08, we may incur greater losses during periods when we previously would have incurred smaller losses or no losses because we had already impaired the carrying value of our bitcoin to a low price observed during a prior period, and we may also incur gains during periods when the market value of bitcoin rises, as compared to periods prior to January 1, 2025, when we would not have incurred any gains under similar circumstances. Accordingly, due in particular to the volatility in the price of bitcoin, we expect the adoption of ASU 2023-08 to increase the volatility of our financial results. Additionally, as a result of ASU 2023-08 requiring a cumulative-effect adjustment to our opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2025 and not 22 permitting retrospective restatement of prior periods, our future results will not be comparable to results from periods prior to our adoption of the guidance. Because we intend to purchase additional bitcoin in future periods and increase our overall holdings of bitcoin, we expect that the proportion of our total assets represented by our bitcoin holdings will increase in the future. As a result, and in particular due to our adoption of ASU 2023-08, volatility in our earnings may be significantly more than what we experienced in prior periods. The availability of spot ETPs for bitcoin and other digital assets may adversely affect the market price of our listed securities Although bitcoin and other digital assets have experienced a surge of investor attention since bitcoin was invented in 2008, until recently investors in the United States had limited means to gain direct exposure to bitcoin through traditional investment channels, and instead generally were only able to hold bitcoin through hosted wallets provided by digital asset service providers or through unhosted wallets that expose the investor to risks associated with loss or hacking of their private keys. Given the relative novelty of digital assets, general lack of familiarity with the processes needed to hold bitcoin directly, as well as the potential reluctance of financial planners and advisers to recommend direct bitcoin holdings to their retail customers because of the manner in which such holdings are custodied, some investors have sought exposure to bitcoin through investment vehicles that hold bitcoin and issue shares representing fractional undivided interests in their underlying bitcoin holdings. These vehicles, which were previously offered only to accredited investors on a private placement basis, have in the past traded at substantial premiums to net asset value, possibly due to the relative scarcity of traditional investment vehicles providing investment exposure to bitcoin. On January 10, 2024, the SEC approved the listing and trading of spot bitcoin ETPs, the shares of which can be sold in public offerings and are traded on U.S. national securities exchanges. The approved ETPs commenced trading directly to the public on January 11, 2024, with a trading volume of $4.6 billion on the first trading day. On January 11, 2024, and in the subsequent days following the SECs approval of the listing and trading of spot bitcoin ETPs, the trading price of our shares of class A common stock declined significantly relative to the value of our bitcoin. To the extent investors view our class A common stock as providing exposure to bitcoin, it is possible that the value of our class A common stock may also have included a premium over the value of our bitcoin due to the prior scarcity of traditional investment vehicles providing investment exposure to bitcoin, and that the value declined due to investors now having a greater range of options to gain exposure to bitcoin and investors choosing to gain such exposure through ETPs rather than our class A common stock. Additionally, on May 23, 2024, the SEC approved rule changes permitting the listing and trading of spot ETPs that invest in ether, the main crypto asset supporting the Ethereum blockchain. The approved spot ETPs commenced trading directly to the public on July 23, 2024. The listing and trading of spot ETPs for ether offers investors another alternative to gain exposure to digital assets, which could result in a decline in the trading price of bitcoin as well as a decline in the value of our class A common stock relative to the value of our bitcoin, as well as our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Although we are an operating company, and we believe we offer a different value proposition than a bitcoin investment vehicle such as a spot bitcoin ETP, investors may nevertheless view our class A common stock as an alternative to an investment in an ETP, and choose to purchase shares of a spot bitcoin ETP instead of our class A common stock. They may do so for a variety of reasons, including if they believe that ETPs offer a pure play exposure to bitcoin that is generally not subject to federal income tax at the entity level as we are, or the other risk factors applicable to an operating business, such as ours. Additionally, unlike spot bitcoin ETPs, we (i) do not seek for our shares of Class A common stock to track the value of the underlying bitcoin we hold before payment of expenses and liabilities, (ii) do not benefit from various exemptions and relief under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including Regulation M, and other securities laws, which enable ETPs to continuously align the value of their shares to the price of the underlying assets they hold through share creation and redemption, (iii) are a Delaware corporation rather than a statutory trust, and do not operate pursuant to a trust agreement that would require us to pursue one or more stated investment objectives, and (iv) are not required to provide daily transparency as to our bitcoin holdings or our daily net asset value. Furthermore, recommendations by broker-dealers to buy, hold, or sell complex products and non-traditional ETPs, or an investment strategy involving such products, may be subject to additional or heightened scrutiny that would not be applicable to broker-dealers making recommendations with respect to our class A common stock. Based on how we are viewed in the market relative to ETPs, and other vehicles which offer economic exposure to bitcoin, such as bitcoin futures exchange-traded funds (ETFs), leveraged bitcoin futures ETFs, and similar vehicles offered on international exchanges, any premium or discount in our class A common stock relative to the value of our bitcoin holdings may increase or decrease in different market conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, availability of spot ETPs for bitcoin and other digital assets could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our listed securities. Our bitcoin strategy subjects us to enhanced regulatory oversight As noted above, several spot bitcoin ETPs have received approval from the SEC to list their shares on a U.S. national securities exchange with continuous share creation and redemption at net asset value. Even though we are not, and do not function in the manner of, a spot bitcoin ETP, it is possible that we nevertheless could face regulatory scrutiny from the SEC or other federal or state agencies due to our bitcoin holdings. 23 In addition, there has been increasing focus on the extent to which digital assets can be used to launder the proceeds of illegal activities, fund criminal or terrorist activities, or circumvent sanctions regimes, including those sanctions imposed in response to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine. While we have implemented and maintain policies and procedures reasonably designed to promote compliance with applicable anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations and take care to only acquire our bitcoin through entities subject to anti-money laundering regulation and related compliance rules in the United States, if we are found to have purchased any of our bitcoin from bad actors that have used bitcoin to launder money or persons subject to sanctions, we may be subject to regulatory proceedings and any further transactions or dealings in bitcoin by us may be restricted or prohibited. Although our bitcoin holdings do not currently serve as collateral securing any of our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2024, we may incur indebtedness or enter into other financial instruments in the future that may be collateralized by our bitcoin holdings. We may also consider pursuing strategies to create income streams or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings. These types of bitcoin-related transactions are the subject of enhanced regulatory oversight. These and any other bitcoin-related transactions we may enter into, beyond simply acquiring and holding bitcoin, may subject us to additional regulatory compliance requirements and scrutiny, including under federal and state money services regulations, money transmitter licensing requirements and various commodity and securities laws and regulations. Additional laws, guidance and policies may be issued by domestic and foreign regulators following the filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection by FTX, one of the worlds largest cryptocurrency exchanges, in November 2022. While the financial and regulatory fallout from FTXs collapse did not directly impact our business, financial condition or corporate assets, the FTX collapse may have increased regulatory focus on the digital assets industry. Increased enforcement activity and changes in the regulatory environment, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements by the government or any new legislation affecting bitcoin, as well as enforcement actions involving or impacting our trading venues, counterparties and custodians, may impose significant costs or significantly limit our ability to hold and transact in bitcoin. In addition, private actors that are wary of bitcoin or the regulatory concerns associated with bitcoin have in the past taken and may in the future take further actions that may have an adverse effect on our business or the market price of our listed securities. For example, an affiliate of HSBC Holdings has prohibited customers of its HSBC InvestDirect retail investment platform from buying shares of our class A common stock after determining that the value of our stock is related to the performance of bitcoin, indicating that it did not want to facilitate exposure to virtual currencies. Due to the unregulated nature and lack of transparency surrounding the operations of many bitcoin trading venues, bitcoin trading venues may experience greater fraud, security failures or regulatory or operational problems than trading venues for more established asset classes, which may result in a loss of confidence in bitcoin trading venues and adversely affect the value of our bitcoin Bitcoin trading venues are relatively new and, in many cases, unregulated. Furthermore, there are many bitcoin trading venues which do not provide the public with significant information regarding their ownership structure, management teams, corporate practices and regulatory compliance. As a result, the marketplace may lose confidence in bitcoin trading venues, including prominent exchanges that handle a significant volume of bitcoin trading and/or are subject to regulatory oversight, in the event one or more bitcoin trading venues cease or pause for a prolonged period the trading of bitcoin or other digital assets, or experience fraud, significant volumes of withdrawal, security failures or operational problems. In 2019 there were reports claiming that 80-95% of bitcoin trading volume on trading venues was false or non-economic in nature, with specific focus on unregulated exchanges located outside of the United States. The SEC also alleged as part of its June 5, 2023 complaint against Binance Holdings Ltd. that Binance committed strategic and targeted wash trading through its affiliates to artificially inflate the volume of certain digital assets traded on its exchange. The SEC has also brought recent actions against individuals and digital asset market participants alleging that such persons artificially increased trading volumes in certain digital assets through wash trades, or repeated buying and selling of the same assets in fictitious transactions to manipulate their underlying trading price. Such reports and allegations may indicate that the bitcoin market is significantly smaller than expected and that the United States makes up a significantly larger percentage of the bitcoin market than is commonly understood. Any actual or perceived wash trading in the bitcoin market, and any other fraudulent or manipulative acts and practices, could adversely affect the value of our bitcoin. Negative perception, a lack of stability in the broader bitcoin markets and the closure, temporary shutdown or operational disruption of bitcoin trading venues, lending institutions, institutional investors, institutional miners, custodians, or other major participants in the bitcoin ecosystem, due to fraud, business failure, cybersecurity events, government-mandated regulation, bankruptcy, or for any other reason, may result in a decline in confidence in bitcoin and the broader bitcoin ecosystem and greater volatility in the price of bitcoin. For example, in 2022, each of Celsius Network, Voyager Digital, Three Arrows Capital, FTX, and BlockFi filed for bankruptcy, following which the market prices of bitcoin and other digital assets significantly declined. In addition, in June 2023, the SEC announced enforcement actions against Coinbase, Inc., and Binance Holdings Ltd., two providers of large trading venues for digital assets, which similarly was followed by a decrease in the market price of bitcoin and other digital assets. These were followed in November 2023, by an SEC enforcement action against Payward Inc. and Payward Ventures Inc., together known as Kraken, another large trading venue for digital assets. As the price 24 of our listed securities is affected by the value of our bitcoin holdings, the failure of a major participant in the bitcoin ecosystem could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our listed securities. The concentration of our bitcoin holdings enhances the risks inherent in our bitcoin strategy As of February 14, 2025, we held approximately 478,740 bitcoins that were acquired at an aggregate purchase price of $31.134 billion and we intend to purchase additional bitcoin and increase our overall holdings of bitcoin in the future.The concentration of our bitcoin holdings limits the risk mitigation that we could achieve if we were to purchase a more diversified portfolio of treasury assets, and the absence of diversification enhances the risks inherent in our bitcoin strategy. The price of bitcoin experienced a significant decline in 2022, and this had, and any future significant declines in the price of bitcoin would have, a more pronounced impact on our financial condition than if we used our cash to purchase a more diverse portfolio of assets. The emergence or growth of other digital assets, including those with significant private or public sector backing, could have a negative impact on the price of bitcoin and adversely affect our business As a result of our bitcoin strategy, our assets are concentrated in our bitcoin holdings. Accordingly, the emergence or growth of digital assets other than bitcoin may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As of December 31, 2024, bitcoin was the largest digital asset by market capitalization. However, there are numerous alternative digital assets and many entities, including consortiums and financial institutions, are researching and investing resources into private or permissioned blockchain platforms or digital assets that do not use proof-of-work mining like the Bitcoin network. For example, in late 2022, the Ethereum network transitioned to a proof-of-stake mechanism for validating transactions that requires significantly less computing power than proof-of-work mining. The Ethereum network has completed another major upgrade since then and may undertake additional upgrades in the future. If the mechanisms for validating transactions in Ethereum and other alternative digital assets are perceived as superior to proof-of-work mining, those digital assets could gain market share relative to bitcoin. Other alternative digital assets that compete with bitcoin in certain ways include stablecoins, which are designed to maintain a constant price because of, for instance, their issuers promise to hold high-quality liquid assets (such as U.S. dollar deposits and short-term U.S. treasury securities) equal to the total value of stablecoins in circulation. Stablecoins have grown rapidly as an alternative to bitcoin and other digital assets as a medium of exchange and store of value, particularly on digital asset trading platforms. As of December 31, 2024, two of the eight largest digital assets by market capitalization were U.S. dollar-pegged stablecoins. Additionally, central banks in some countries have started to introduce digital forms of legal tender. For example, Chinas CBDC project was made available to consumers in January 2022, and governments including the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Israel have been discussing the potential creation of new CBDCs. Whether or not they incorporate blockchain or similar technology, CBDCs, as legal tender in the issuing jurisdiction, could also compete with, or replace, bitcoin and other digital assets as a medium of exchange or store of value. As a result, the emergence or growth of these or other digital assets could cause the market price of bitcoin to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Our bitcoin holdings are less liquid than our existing cash and cash equivalents and may not be able to serve as a source of liquidity for us to the same extent as cash and cash equivalents Historically, the bitcoin market has been characterized by significant volatility in price, limited liquidity and trading volumes compared to sovereign currencies markets, relative anonymity, a developing regulatory landscape, potential susceptibility to market abuse and manipulation, compliance and internal control failures at exchanges, and various other risks inherent in its entirely electronic, virtual form and decentralized network. During times of market instability, we may not be able to sell our bitcoin at favorable prices or at all. For example, a number of bitcoin trading venues temporarily halted deposits and withdrawals in 2022, although the Coinbase exchange (our principal market for bitcoin) has, to date, not done so. As a result, our bitcoin holdings may not be able to serve as a source of liquidity for us to the same extent as cash and cash equivalents. Further, bitcoin we hold with our custodians and transact with our trade execution partners does not enjoy the same protections as are available to cash or securities deposited with or transacted by institutions subject to regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. Additionally, we may be unable to enter into term loans or other capital raising transactions collateralized by our unencumbered bitcoin or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings, including in particular during times of market instability or when the price of bitcoin has declined significantly. If we are unable to sell our bitcoin, enter into additional capital raising transactions, including capital raising transactions using bitcoin as collateral, or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings, or if we are forced to sell our bitcoin at a significant loss, in order to meet our working capital requirements, our business and financial condition could be negatively impacted. If we or our third-party service providers experience a security breach or cyberattack and unauthorized parties obtain access to our bitcoin, or if our private keys are lost or destroyed, or other similar circumstances or events occur, we may lose some or all of our bitcoin and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected Substantially all of the bitcoin we own is held in custody accounts at institutional-grade digital asset custodians. Security breaches and cyberattacks are of particular concern with respect to our bitcoin. Bitcoin and other blockchain-based cryptocurrencies and the entities 25 that provide services to participants in the bitcoin ecosystem have been, and may in the future be, subject to security breaches, cyberattacks, or other malicious activities. For example, in October 2021 it was reported that hackers exploited a flaw in the account recovery process and stole from the accounts of at least 6,000 customers of the Coinbase exchange (our principal market for bitcoin), although the flaw was subsequently fixed and Coinbase reimbursed affected customers. Similarly, in November 2022, hackers exploited weaknesses in the security architecture of the FTX Trading digital asset exchange and reportedly stole over $400 million in digital assets from customers. A successful security breach or cyberattack could result in: a partial or total loss of our bitcoin in a manner that may not be covered by insurance or the liability provisions of the custody agreements with the custodians who hold our bitcoin; harm to our reputation and brand; improper disclosure of data and violations of applicable data privacy and other laws; or significant regulatory scrutiny, investigations, fines, penalties, and other legal, regulatory, contractual and financial exposure. Further, any actual or perceived data security breach or cybersecurity attack directed at other companies with digital assets or companies that operate digital asset networks, regardless of whether we are directly impacted, could lead to a general loss of confidence in the broader Bitcoin blockchain ecosystem or in the use of the Bitcoin network to conduct financial transactions, which could negatively impact us. Attacks upon systems across a variety of industries, including industries related to bitcoin, are increasing in frequency, persistence, and sophistication, and, in many cases, are being conducted by sophisticated, well-funded and organized groups and individuals, including state actors. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to systems and information (including personal data and digital assets), disable or degrade services, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized or detected until after they have been launched against a target. These attacks may occur on our systems or those of our third-party service providers or partners. We may experience breaches of our security measures due to human error, malfeasance, insider threats, system errors or vulnerabilities or other irregularities. In particular, unauthorized parties have attempted, and we expect that they will continue to attempt, to gain access to our systems and facilities, as well as those of our partners and third-party service providers, through various means, such as hacking, social engineering, phishing and fraud. In the past, hackers have successfully employed a social engineering attack against one of our service providers and misappropriated our digital assets, although, to date, such events have not been material to our financial condition or operating results. Threats can come from a variety of sources, including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, and insiders. In addition, certain types of attacks could harm us even if our systems are left undisturbed. For example, certain threats are designed to remain dormant or undetectable, sometimes for extended periods of time, or until launched against a target and we may not be able to implement adequate preventative measures. Further, there has been an increase in such activities due to the increase in work-from-home arrangements since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. The risk of cyberattacks could also be increased by cyberwarfare in connection with the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, or other future conflicts, including potential proliferation of malware into systems unrelated to such conflicts. Any future breach of our operations or those of others in the bitcoin industry, including third-party services on which we rely, could materially and adversely affect our business. We face risks relating to the custody of our bitcoin, including the loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoin and cyberattacks or other data loss relating to our bitcoin We hold our bitcoin with regulated custodians that have duties to safeguard our private keys. Our custodial services contracts do not restrict our ability to reallocate our bitcoin among our custodians, and our bitcoin holdings may be concentrated with a single custodian from time to time. In light of the significant amount of bitcoin we hold, we continually seek to engage additional custodians to achieve a greater degree of diversification in the custody of our bitcoin as the extent of potential risk of loss is dependent, in part, on the degree of diversification. If there is a decrease in the availability of digital asset custodians that we believe can safely custody our bitcoin, for example, due to regulatory developments or enforcement actions that cause custodians to discontinue or limit their services in the United States, we may need to enter into agreements that are less favorable than our current agreements or take other measures to custody our bitcoin, and our ability to seek a greater degree of diversification in the use of custodial services would be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2024, the insurance that covers losses of our bitcoin holdings covers only a small fraction of the value of the entirety of our bitcoin holdings, and there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be maintained as part of the custodial services we have or that such coverage will cover losses with respect to our bitcoin. Moreover, our use of custodians exposes us to the risk that the bitcoin our custodians hold on our behalf could be subject to insolvency proceedings and we could be treated as a general unsecured creditor of the custodian, inhibiting our ability to exercise ownership rights with respect to such bitcoin. Any loss associated with such insolvency proceedings is unlikely to be covered by any insurance coverage we maintain related to our bitcoin. Bitcoin is controllable only by the possessor of both the unique public key and private key(s) relating to the local or online digital wallet in which the bitcoin is held. While the Bitcoin blockchain ledger requires a public key relating to a digital wallet to be published when used in a transaction, private keys must be safeguarded and kept private in order to prevent a third party from accessing the bitcoin held 26 in such wallet. To the extent the private key(s) for a digital wallet are lost, destroyed, or otherwise compromised and no backup of the private key(s) is accessible, neither we nor our custodians will be able to access the bitcoin held in the related digital wallet. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that our digital wallets, nor the digital wallets of our custodians held on our behalf, will not be compromised as a result of a cyberattack. The bitcoin and blockchain ledger, as well as other digital assets and blockchain technologies, have been, and may in the future be, subject to security breaches, cyberattacks, or other malicious activities. Regulatory change reclassifying bitcoin as a security could lead to our classification as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and could adversely affect the market price of bitcoin and the market price of our listed securities Our assets are concentrated in our bitcoin holdings. While senior SEC officials have stated their view that bitcoin is not a security for purposes of the federal securities laws, a contrary determination by the SEC could lead to our classification as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which would subject us to significant additional regulatory controls that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute on our bitcoin strategy, and our business and operations and may also require us to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our business. In addition, if bitcoin is determined to constitute a security for purposes of the federal securities laws, the additional regulatory restrictions imposed by such a determination could adversely affect the market price of bitcoin and in turn adversely affect the market price of our listed securities. We are not subject to legal and regulatory obligations that apply to investment companies such as mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, or to obligations applicable to investment advisers Mutual funds, ETFs and their directors and management are subject to extensive regulation as investment companies and investment advisers under U.S. federal and state law; this regulation is intended for the benefit and protection of investors. We are not subject to, and do not otherwise voluntarily comply with, these laws and regulations. This means, among other things, that the execution of or changes to our Treasury Reserve Policy or our bitcoin strategy, our use of leverage, the manner in which our bitcoin is custodied, our ability to engage in transactions with affiliated parties and our operating and investment activities generally are not subject to the extensive legal and regulatory requirements and prohibitions that apply to investment companies and investment advisers. For example, although a significant change to our Treasury Reserve Policy would require the approval of our board of directors, no shareholder or regulatory approval would be necessary. Consequently, our board of directors has broad discretion over the investment, leverage and cash management policies it authorizes, whether in respect of our bitcoin holdings or other activities we may pursue, and has the power to change our current policies, including our strategy of acquiring and holding bitcoin. Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to risk of non-performance by counterparties Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to the risk of non-performance by counterparties, whether contractual or otherwise. Risk of non-performance includes inability or refusal of a counterparty to perform because of a deterioration in the counterpartys financial condition and liquidity or for any other reason. For example, our execution partners, custodians, or other counterparties might fail to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreements with them, which could result in a loss of bitcoin, a loss of the opportunity to generate funds, or other losses. Our primary counterparty risk with respect to our bitcoin is custodian performance obligations under the various custody arrangements we have entered into. A series of recent high-profile bankruptcies, closures, liquidations, regulatory enforcement actions and other events relating to companies operating in the digital asset industry, including the filings for bankruptcy protection by Three Arrows Capital, Celsius Network, Voyager Digital, FTX Trading and Genesis Global Capital, the closure or liquidation of certain financial institutions that provided lending and other services to the digital assets industry, including Signature Bank and Silvergate Bank, SEC enforcement actions against Coinbase, Inc., Binance Holdings Ltd., and Kraken, the placement of Prime Trust, LLC into receivership following a cease-and-desist order issued by Nevadas Department of Business and Industry, and the filing and subsequent settlement of a civil fraud lawsuit by the New York Attorney General against Genesis Global Capital, its parent company Digital Currency Group, Inc., and former partner Gemini Trust Company have highlighted the perceived and actual counterparty risk applicable to digital asset ownership and trading. Although these bankruptcies, closures and liquidations have not resulted in any loss or misappropriation of our bitcoin, nor have such events adversely impacted our access to our bitcoin, legal precedent created in these bankruptcy and other proceedings may increase the risk of future rulings adverse to our interests in the event one or more of our custodians becomes a debtor in a bankruptcy case or is the subject of other liquidation, insolvency or similar proceedings. While all of our custodians are subject to regulatory regimes intended to protect customers in the event of a custodial bankruptcy, receivership or similar insolvency proceeding, no assurance can be provided that our custodially-held bitcoin will not become part of the custodians insolvency estate if one or more of our custodians enters bankruptcy, receivership or similar insolvency proceedings. Additionally, if we pursue any strategies to create income streams or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings, we would become subject to additional counterparty risks. Any significant non-performance by counterparties, including in particular the custodians with which we custody substantially all of our bitcoin, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. 27 Risks Related to Our Enterprise Analytics Software Business Strategy We derive revenue from a single software platform and related services as well as revenue from our installed customer base We derive revenue from sales of our analytics software platform and related services. We also depend on our installed customer base for a substantial portion of our software revenue. As a result, if our software business experiences a significant decline in demand for, or in the adoption or prices of, our platform and related services as a result of, among other factors, a significant decline in our installed customer base, any change in our pricing or packaging model, increased competition, maturation in the markets for our platform, or other risks described herein, we may not be able to generate revenue from other sources in excess of the expenses relating to our analytics software platform and related services As our customers increasingly shift from a product license model to a cloud subscription model, we could face higher future rates of attrition, and such a shift could continue to affect the timing of revenue recognition or reduce product licenses and product support revenues We offer our analytics platform in the form of a product license or a cloud subscription. Given that it is relatively easy for customers to migrate on and off our cloud subscription platform, as we continue to shift our customers toward our cloud platform, we could face higher future rates of attrition among our customers. In addition, the payment streams and revenue recognition timing for our product licenses are different from those for our cloud subscriptions. For product licenses, customers typically pay us a lump sum soon after entering into a license agreement, and we typically recognize product licenses revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer. For cloud subscriptions, customers typically make periodic payments over the subscription period and we recognize subscription services revenues ratably over the subscription period. As a result, as our customers increasingly shift to, or new customers purchase, cloud subscriptions instead of product licenses, the resulting change in payment terms and revenue recognition may result in our recognizing less revenue in the reporting period in which the sale transactions are consummated than has been the case in prior periods, with more revenue being recognized in future periods. Our recognition of deferred revenue and advance payments is subject to future performance obligations and may not be representative of revenues for succeeding periods Our deferred revenue and advance payments totaled $242.9 million as of December 31, 2024. The timing and ultimate recognition of our deferred revenue and advance payments depend on various factors, including our performance of various service obligations. Because of the possibility of customer changes or delays in customer development or implementation schedules or budgets, and the need for us to satisfactorily perform product support and other services, deferred revenue and advance payments at any particular date may not be representative of actual revenue for any succeeding period. In addition, we had $211.9 million of other remaining performance obligations as of December 31, 2024, consisting of the portions of multi-year contracts that will be invoiced in the future that are not reflected on our balance sheet. As with deferred revenue and advance payments, these other remaining performance obligations at any particular date may not be representative of actual revenue for any succeeding period. Integration of artificial intelligence into our enterprise analytics product offerings and our use of artificial intelligence in our operations could result in reputational or competitive harm, legal liability, and other adverse effects on our business We have integrated, and plan to further integrate, AI capabilities into certain components of our enterprise analytics product offerings and we expect to use AI in our operations. Such integration and use of AI may become more important in our product offerings and operations over time. These AI-related initiatives, whether successful or not, could cause us to incur substantial costs and could result in delays in our software release cadence. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products or operations more quickly or more successfully than we do, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. Additionally, AI algorithms may be flawed and datasets underlying AI algorithms may be insufficient or contain biased information. If the AI tools integrated into our products or that we use in our operations produce analyses or recommendations that are or are alleged to be deficient, inaccurate, or biased, our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Other companies have experienced cybersecurity incidents that implicate confidential and proprietary company data and/or the personal data of end users of AI applications integrated into their software offerings or used in their operations. If we were to experience a cybersecurity incident, whether related to the integration of AI capabilities into our product offerings or our use of AI applications in our operations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. AI also presents various emerging legal, regulatory and ethical issues, and the incorporation of AI into our product offerings and our use of AI applications in our operations could require us to expend significant resources in developing, testing and maintaining our product offerings and may cause us to experience brand, reputational, or competitive harm, or incur legal liability. On October 30, 2023, the Biden administration issued an Executive Order to, among other things, establish extensive new standards for AI safety and security. Additionally, in March 2024, the European Commission passed the Artificial Intelligence Act. Other jurisdictions, including certain U.S. states, have adopted or may decide to 28 adopt similar or more restrictive legislation that may render the use of such technologies challenging. These restrictions may make it harder for us to conduct our business using AI, lead to regulatory fines or penalties, require us to change our product offerings or business practices, or prevent or limit our use of AI. Risks Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights We periodically receive notices from third parties claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights. The frequency of such claims may increase as we expand our offerings and branding, the number of offerings and level of competition in our industry grow, the functionality of offerings overlaps, and the volume of issued patents, patent applications, and copyright and trademark registrations continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time-consuming, costly, and/or result in litigation; divert managements time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements that we would normally find unacceptable; require us to stop selling certain of our offerings; require us to redesign certain of our offerings using alternative non-infringing technology or practices, which could require significant effort and expense; require us to rename certain of our offerings or entities; or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers or channel partners. Additionally, while we monitor our use of third-party software, including open-source software, our processes for controlling such use in our offerings may not be effective. If we fail to comply with the terms or conditions associated with third-party software that we use, if we inadvertently embed certain types of third-party software into one or more of our offerings, or if third-party software that we license is found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could become subject to infringement liability and be required to re-engineer our offerings, discontinue the sale of our offerings, or make available to certain third parties or generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. If a successful infringement claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology or brand name, as applicable, our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in third-party software or systems or the emergence of new industry standards could materially adversely affect the operation of and demand for our existing software The functionalities of our software depend in part on the ability of our software to interface with our customers information technology (IT) infrastructure and cloud environments, including software applications, network infrastructure, and end user devices, which are supplied to our customers by various other vendors. When new or updated versions of these third-party software or systems are introduced, or new industry standards in related fields emerge, we may be required to develop updated versions of or enhancements to our software to help ensure that it continues to effectively interoperate with our customers IT infrastructure and cloud environments. If new or modified operating systems are introduced or new web standards and technologies or new standards in the field of database access technology emerge that are incompatible with our software, development efforts to maintain the interoperability of our software with our customers IT infrastructure and cloud environments could require substantial capital investment and employee resources. If we are unable to update our software in a timely manner, cost-effectively, or at all, the ability of our software to perform key functions could be impaired, which may impact our customers satisfaction with our software, potentially result in breach of warranty or other claims, and materially adversely affect demand for our software. The nature of our software makes it particularly susceptible to undetected errors, bugs, or security vulnerabilities, which could cause problems with how the software performs and, in turn, reduce demand for our software, reduce our revenue, and lead to litigation claims against us Despite extensive testing by us and our current and potential customers, we have in the past discovered software errors, bugs, or security vulnerabilities (including the log4j and SpringShell vulnerabilities which surfaced in December 2021 and March 2022, respectively, and affected companies worldwide) in our offerings after commercial shipments began and they may be found in future offerings or releases. This could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation, or delays in market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may also need to expend resources and capital to correct these defects if they occur. 29 Our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability, warranty, and other claims. It is possible these provisions are unenforceable in certain domestic or international jurisdictions, and we may be exposed to such claims. A successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our intellectual property is valuable, and any inability to protect it could reduce the value of our offerings and brand Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our software or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual commitments can only provide limited protection. Any intellectual property owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Any of our pending or future intellectual property applications, whether or not currently being challenged, may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all. Moreover, amendments to and developing jurisprudence regarding U.S. and international law may affect our ability to protect our intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement. In addition, although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and contractors, the confidential nature of our intellectual property may not be maintained. Furthermore, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot protect our intellectual property against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. We may be obligated to disclose our proprietary source code to our customers, which may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property and could reduce the renewals of our support services Certain of our customer agreements contain provisions permitting the customer to become a party to, or a beneficiary of, a source code escrow agreement under which we place the proprietary source code for our applicable services and products in escrow with a third party. Under these escrow agreements, the source code to the applicable product may be released to the customer, typically for its use to maintain, modify, and enhance the product, upon the occurrence of specified events, such as our filing for bankruptcy, discontinuance of our support services, and/or ceasing our business operations generally. Disclosing the content of our source code may limit the intellectual property protection we can obtain or maintain for that source code or the services and products containing that source code. It also could permit a customer to which a products source code is disclosed to support and maintain that software product without being required to purchase our support services. We may be unable to develop and release new software product offerings or enhancements to our existing offerings in a timely and cost-effective manner Analytics applications, and applications that leverage the Bitcoin blockchain, can be complex, and research and development for these types of applications can be costly and time consuming. In the case of new or contemplated offerings, we may not be able to identify business use cases for such offerings, and we have in the past and may in the future cease, delay or reallocate resources away from further development of or marketing efforts for such offerings. We cannot be sure that we will succeed in developing, marketing, and delivering, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new or enhanced offerings that will achieve market acceptance. Risks Related to Our Operations Business disruptions, including interruptions, delays, or failures of our systems, third-party data center hosting facility, or other third-party services, as a result of geopolitical tensions, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics (like the COVID-19 pandemic), and similar events, could materially adversely affect our operating results or result in a material weakness in our internal controls that could adversely affect the market price of our stock A significant portion of our research and development activities or certain other critical business operations are concentrated in facilities in Northern Virginia, China, Argentina, and Poland. In addition, we serve our customers and manage certain critical internal processes using a third-party data center hosting facility located in the United States and other third-party services, including AWS, Azure, Google, and other cloud services. Any disruptions or failures of our systems or the third-party hosting facility or other services that we use, including as a result of a natural disaster, fire, cyberattack (including the potential increase in risk for such attacks due to cyberwarfare in connection with the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts), act of terrorism, geopolitical conflict (including due to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts and any potential conflict involving China and Taiwan), pandemic, the effects of climate change, or other catastrophic event, as well as power outages, telecommunications infrastructure outages, a decision by one of our third-party service providers to close facilities that we use without adequate notice or to materially change the pricing or terms of their services, host country restrictions on the conduct of our business operations or the availability of our offerings, or other unanticipated problems with our systems or the third-party services that we use, such as a failure to meet service standards, could severely impact our ability to conduct our business operations or to attract new customers or maintain existing customers, or result in a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, any of which could materially adversely affect our future operating results. 30 We face a variety of risks in doing business with U.S. and foreign federal, state, and local governments and government agencies, including risks related to the procurement process, budget constraints and cycles, termination of contracts, and compliance with government contracting requirements Our customers include the U.S. government, state and local governments and government agencies. There are a variety of risks in doing business with government entities, including: Procurement. Contracting with public sector customers is highly competitive and can be time-consuming and expensive, requiring us to incur significant up-front time and expense without any assurance that we will win a contract. Further, even if we win a contract, it may be placed on hold, or reversed, due to a post-award protest. Budgetary Constraints and Cycles. Public sector funding reductions or delays adversely impact demand and payment for our offerings. Termination of Contracts. Public sector customers often have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts for convenience or due to a default. If a contract is terminated for the customers convenience, we may only be able to collect fees for software or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated due to our default, we may not recover even those amounts, and we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative software or services. Compliance with Government Contracting Requirements. Government contractors are required to comply with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, or performance of government contracts that give public sector customers substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typical for commercial contracts. These may include rights regarding price protection, the accuracy of information provided to the government, contractor compliance with socio-economic policies, and other terms unique to government contracts. Governments and government agencies routinely investigate and audit contractors for compliance with these requirements. If, as a result of an audit or review, it is determined that we have failed to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, forfeiture of profits, fines, treble damages, and suspensions or debarment from future government business and we may suffer harm to our reputation. Our customers also include foreign governments and government agencies. Similar procurement, budgetary, contract, and audit risks also apply to these entities. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of Michael J. Saylor, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, assimilate, and retain highly skilled personnel. There has historically been significant competition for qualified employees in the technology industry, and such competition may be further amplified by evolving restrictions on immigration, travel, or availability of visas for skilled technology workers. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train, assimilate, and retain other highly skilled personnel in the future, particularly at times when we undergo significant headcount reductions. Our future success also depends in large part on the continued service of Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Chairman. If we were unable to attract, train, assimilate, and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, or we were to lose the services of Mr. Saylor, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. These risks may be exacerbated if a shareholder or a group of affiliated shareholders (other than or not including Mr. Saylor) were to exercise majority voting control of the Company. Changes in laws or regulations relating to privacy or the collection, processing, disclosure, storage, localization, or transmission of personal data, or any actual or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to comply with such laws and regulations, contractual obligations, or applicable privacy policies, could materially adversely affect our business Certain aspects of our business involve collecting, processing, disclosing, storing, and transmitting personal data, which are subject to certain privacy policies, contractual obligations, and U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and directives relating to privacy and data protection. In addition, the types of data subject to protection as personal data in the European Union, China, the United States, and elsewhere have been expanding. In recent years, the collection and use of personal data by companies have come under increased regulatory and public scrutiny, especially in relation to the collection and processing of sensitive data, such as healthcare, biometric, genetic, financial services, and childrens data, precise location data, and data regarding a persons race or ethnic origins, political opinions, or religious beliefs. There are various enforcement agencies at both the state and federal level that review compliance with these requirements, including the United States Department of Health and Human Services for potential violations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). If we are subject to a potential FTC enforcement action, we may be subject to a settlement order that requires us to adhere to very specific privacy and data security practices, which may impact our business. We may also be required to pay fines as part of a settlement (depending on the nature of the alleged violations). If we 31 violate any consent order that we reach with the FTC, we may be subject to additional fines and compliance requirements. We face risks of similar enforcement from State Attorneys General and, potentially, other regulatory agencies. Similar laws exist in other foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union, that may impact our business activities. In addition, various U.S. federal and state government agencies and foreign government bodies may enact new or additional laws or regulations, or issue rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, concerning privacy, data storage, data protection, and cross-border transfer of data that could materially adversely impact our business. Any systems failure or security breach that results in the release of, or unauthorized access to, personal data, or any failure or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to comply with applicable privacy policies, contractual obligations, or any applicable laws or regulations relating to privacy or data protection, could result in proceedings against us by domestic or foreign government entities or others, including private plaintiffs in litigation. Such proceedings could result in the imposition of sanctions, fines, penalties, liabilities, government orders, and/or orders requiring that we change our data practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation, and financial condition. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress is considering comprehensive privacy legislation. At this time, it is unclear whether Congress will pass such a law and if so, when and what it will require and prohibit. Moreover, it is not clear whether any such legislation would give the FTC any new authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act in the first instance, whether Congress will grant the FTC rulemaking authority over privacy and information security, or whether Congress will vest some or all privacy and data security regulatory authority and enforcement power in a new agency, akin to EU data protection authorities. Complying with these and other changing requirements could cause us or our customers to incur substantial costs or pay substantial fines or penalties, require us to change our business practices, require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, or limit our ability to provide certain offerings in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. New laws or regulations restricting or limiting the collection or use of mobile data could also reduce demand for certain of our offerings or require changes to our business practices, which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. If we or our third-party service providers experience a disruption due to a cybersecurity attack or security breach and unauthorized parties obtain access to our customers, prospects, vendors, or channel partners data, our data, our networks or other systems, or the cloud environments we manage, our offerings may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our offerings may be reduced, our operations may be disrupted, we may incur significant legal and financial liabilities, and our business could be materially adversely affected As part of our business, we process, store, and transmit our customers, prospects, vendors, and channel partners data as well as our own, including in our networks and other systems and the cloud environments we manage. Security breaches may occur due to technological error, computer viruses, or third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers or state actors, physical break-ins, industrial espionage, fraudulent inducement of employees, customers, or channel partners to disclose sensitive information such as usernames or passwords, and employee, customer, or channel partner error or malfeasance. A security breach could result in unauthorized access to or disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of our customers, prospects, vendors, or channel partners data, our data (including our proprietary information, intellectual property, or trade secrets), our networks or other systems, or the cloud environments we manage. Third parties may also conduct attacks designed to prevent access to critical data or systems through ransomware or temporarily deny customers access to our cloud environments. We, and our service providers, have experienced and may in the future experience attempts by third parties to identify and exploit software and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers or service providers cloud environments, networks, and other systems. Security measures that we or our third-party service providers have implemented may not be effective against all current or future security threats. Because there are many different security breach techniques and such techniques continue to evolve, we may be unable to anticipate, detect, or mitigate attempted security breaches and implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach, ransomware attack, or successful denial of service attack could result in a loss of customer confidence in the security of our offerings and damage to our brand, reduce the demand for our offerings, disrupt our normal business operations, require us to spend material resources to investigate or correct the breach, require us to notify affected customers or individuals and/or applicable regulators and others, provide identity theft protection services to individuals, expose us to legal liabilities, including litigation, regulatory enforcement actions, and indemnity obligations, and materially adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our software operates in conjunction with and is dependent on third-party products and components across a broad ecosystem. If there is a security vulnerability in one of these products or components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to compensate us for the potential losses arising from any cybersecurity breach or incident. In addition, such insurance may not be available to us in the future on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Further, our insurance may not cover all claims made against us and could have high deductibles in any event, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management attention. 32 These risks will increase as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud subscriptions and process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of our customers, prospects, vendors, channel partners, and our own data. In particular, as remote working conditions have led businesses to increasingly rely on virtual environments and communication systems, there has been an increase in cyberattacks and other malicious activities. Our having entered into an indemnification agreement with Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Chairman, that supplements our conventional director and officer liability insurance provided by third-party insurance carriers could negatively affect our business and the market price of our listed securities We have entered into an indemnification agreement with Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Chairman, pursuant to which Mr. Saylor has agreed to personally indemnify our directors and officers with respect to certain claims and expenses excluded from the insurance coverage provided by our commercial director and officer insurance carriers, for which we agreed to pay Mr. Saylor an applicable annual fee. Our having entered into this indemnification agreement with Mr. Saylor could have adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors and officers due to the unconventional nature of the arrangement and potential concerns that the indemnification arrangement might not provide the same level of protection that might otherwise be provided by coverage obtained entirely through conventional director and officer insurance. In addition, our indemnification arrangement with Mr. Saylor may result in some investors perceiving that our independent directors are not sufficiently independent from Mr. Saylor due to their entitlement to personal indemnification from him, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our listed securities. Risks Related to Our Listed Securities Generally The market price of our class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile The market price of our class A common stock has historically been volatile and this volatility has been significant in recent periods. Since August 11, 2020, the date on which we announced our initial purchase of bitcoin, the closing price of our class A common stock has increased from $12.36 as of August 10, 2020, the last trading day before our announcement, to $337.73 as of February 14, 2025. The market price of our class A common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the price of bitcoin, of which we have significant holdings, and in which we expect we will continue to make significant purchases and announcements about our transactions in bitcoin; changes to our bitcoin strategy; announcement of additional capital raising transactions; regulatory, commercial and technical developments related to bitcoin or the Bitcoin blockchain; quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the likelihood of which may be enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance relating to our anticipated financial performance in future periods; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, dispositions, new offerings, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments; our ability to develop, market, and deliver new and enhanced offerings on a timely basis; commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates and our ability to meet those estimates; investor perception of our Company, including as compared to investment vehicles that are designed to track the price of bitcoin, such as spot bitcoin ETPs; announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; the volume of shares of our class A common stock and other securities available for public sale; sales or purchases of stock by us or by our stockholders and issuances of awards under our equity incentive plan; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets, including as a result of war, terrorism, infectious diseases (such as COVID-19), natural disasters and other global events, and government responses to such events. 33 In addition, the stock market and the markets for both bitcoin-influenced and technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies in those markets. In particular, recent trading prices of our class A common stock may reflect market dynamics that are not connected to traditional software and business intelligence industry fundamentals, or to valuation methods commonly associated with operating companies in these industries or with companies engaged predominantly in passive investments in bitcoin or other commodities, such as exchange-traded funds. Our equity market capitalization as of December 31, 2024 is well in excess of our stockholders equity calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and in excess of valuations that might traditionally be expected based on our operating performance, cash flows and net assets. Investors may therefore be unable to assess the value our class A common stock or evaluate the risks of an investment in us using traditional or commonly used enterprise valuation methods. We cannot predict how these dynamics may evolve over time, or whether or how long they may last. These market and industry factors may significantly harm the market price of our class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Because of the rights of our two classes of common stock and because Michael J. Saylor, who beneficially owns the majority of our class B common stock, controls a significant portion of our total voting power, Mr. Saylor has significant influence over matters that require approval of our stockholders and as a result could impede a third party from acquiring us, or limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence corporate matters We have two classes of common stock: class A common stock and class B common stock. Holders of our class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of our class B common stock, except that holders of class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of class B common stock have ten votes per share. As of February 4, 2025, there were 19,640,250 shares of class B common stock outstanding, which accounted for approximately 45.2% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock. As of February 4, 2025, Mr. Saylor, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Chairman, beneficially owned 19,616,680 shares of class B common stock, or 45.2% of the total voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Saylor has significant influence over matters that require approval of our stockholders, including mergers, going-private transactions, and other extraordinary transactions and their terms, elections of our directors, and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws. Provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders Provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to control or acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders, including our board of directors having the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director and the ability of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our class A common stock, convertible debt instruments, series A perpetual strike preferred stock, other classes or series of preferred stock, or other convertible securities could depress the price of our listed securities We may issue and sell additional shares of class A common stock, convertible notes, convertible preferred stock, or other securities in subsequent offerings to raise capital or issue shares for other purposes, including in connection with the acquisition of additional bitcoin. For example, between January 1, 2024 and February 14, 2025, we issued and sold: $18.970 billion of shares of class A common stock through at-the-market equity offering programs; $584.0 million of shares of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock; $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.625% Convertible Senior Notes due 2030 (the 2030 Convertible Notes); $603.8 million aggregate principal amount of 0.875% Convertible Senior Notes due 2031 (the 2031 Convertible Notes); $800.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2032 (the 2032 Convertible Notes); $1.010 billion in aggregate principal amount of 0.625% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 (the 2028 Convertible Notes); and $3.000 billion in aggregate principal amount of 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2029 (the 2029 Convertible Notes). On October 30, 2024, we filed a prospectus for a new at-the-market equity offering program pursuant to which we may sell class A common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $21 billion from time to time, through TD Securities (USA) LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., The Benchmark Company, LLC, BTIG, LLC, Canaccord Genuity LLC, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Maxim Group LLC, 34 Mizuho Securities USA LLC, and SG Americas Securities, LLC, as agents, under a sales agreement dated October 30, 2024 (the October 2024 Sales Agreement). As of February 14, 2025, we may issue and sell additional class A common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $4.168 billion from time to time under the October 2024 Sales Agreement. We cannot predict: the size of future issuances of equity securities; the size and terms of future issuances of convertible debt instruments or other convertible securities; or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our securities will have on the market price of our listed securities. Transactions involving newly issued class A common stock, convertible debt instruments, series A perpetual strike preferred stock, other series of convertible preferred stock or other convertible securities could result in possibly substantial dilution to holders of our class A common stock and our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Our amended and restated by-laws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware does not have jurisdiction, then any other state court located in the State of Delaware, or if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for such disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees Our amended and restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware does not have jurisdiction, then any other state court located in the State of Delaware, or if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, other employee or stockholder of the Company to the Company or the Companys stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or the Companys certificate of incorporation or by-laws (in each case, as they may be amended from time to time), or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act, which provides for exclusive jurisdiction of the federal courts. It could apply, however, to a suit that falls within one or more of the categories enumerated in the choice of forum provision and asserts claims under the Securities Act, inasmuch as Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. There is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such provision with respect to claims under the Securities Act, and our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated by-laws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. Risks Relating to Our Series A Perpetual Strike Preferred Stock Our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is senior to our class A common stock, junior to our existing and future indebtedness, structurally junior to the liabilities of our subsidiaries and subject to the rights and preferences of any other class or series of preferred stock then outstanding If we liquidate, dissolve or wind up, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, then our assets will be available to distribute to our equity holders, including holders of our class A common stock and series A perpetual strike preferred stock, only if all of our then- outstanding indebtedness is first paid in full. The remaining assets, if any, would then be allocated among the holders of our equity securities in accordance with their respective liquidation rights. If we issue any preferred stock senior to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, which we refer to as liquidation senior stock, in the future, then the amounts due upon that liquidation senior stock must be paid in full before any payments can be made on the series A perpetual strike preferred stock or common stock. If any assets remain after any liquidation senior stock is paid in full, those assets will be distributed pro rata among holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and any series of preferred stock with liquidation parity with our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, which we refer to as liquidation parity stock, with any remaining assets distributed to holders of our common stock. There may be insufficient remaining assets available to pay the liquidation preference and unpaid accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in which case holders of our common stock would not receive any value for their shares. If we issue any dividend senior stock in the future, such dividend senior stock could contain provisions that prohibit us from paying accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock or purchasing, redeeming or acquiring our series A perpetual strike preferred stock until and unless we first pay accumulated dividends in full on such dividend senior stock. 35 As of December 31, 2024, excluding intercompany indebtedness, and without giving effect to our redemption of the 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (the 2027 Convertible Notes), we had approximately $7.274 billion in aggregate principal amount of consolidated indebtedness outstanding, all of which ranks senior to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and our class A common stock, and no dividend senior stock or liquidation senior stock outstanding. In addition, our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts on the series A perpetual strike preferred stock. If any of our subsidiaries liquidates, dissolves or winds up, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, then we, as a direct or indirect common equity owner of that subsidiary, will be subject to the prior claims of that subsidiarys creditors, including trade creditors and preferred equity holders, if any. We may never receive any amounts from that subsidiary, and, accordingly, the assets of that subsidiary may never be available to make payments on the series A perpetual strike preferred stock. We may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends in cash on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, or we may choose not to pay dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and regulatory and contractual restrictions may prevent us from declaring or paying dividends We expect to fund any dividends paid in cash on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock primarily through additional capital raising activities, including, but not limited to, at-the-market offerings of our class A common stock. However, our ability to declare and pay cash dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock will depend on many factors, including the following: our financial condition, including the amount of cash we have on hand; the amount of cash, if any, generated by our operations and financing activities (including our ability to raise additional capital from the equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all); our anticipated financing needs, including the amounts needed to service our indebtedness or other obligations; the degree to which we decide to reinvest any cash generated by our operations or financing activities to fund our future operations; the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us; regulatory restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, including under the Delaware General Corporation Law; our ability to sell equity securities under new at-the-market offering programs; and contractual restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. In addition, subject to a limited exception, our board of directors may choose not to pay accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock for any reason. Accordingly, we may pay less than the full amount of accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. In addition, if we fail to declare and pay accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in full, then the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock will likely decline. Provisions contained in the instruments governing our future indebtedness may restrict or prohibit us from paying cash dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. If the terms of our indebtedness restrict or prohibit us from paying dividends, then we may seek to refinance that indebtedness or seek a waiver that would permit the payment of dividends. However, we may be unable or may choose not to refinance the indebtedness or obtain a waiver. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, we may declare dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock only out of our surplus (which generally means our total assets less total liabilities, each measured at their fair market values, less statutory capital), or, if there is no surplus, out of our net profits for the current or the immediately preceding fiscal year. We may not have sufficient surplus or net profits to declare and pay dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in cash. If we are unable or, if permitted, decide not to pay accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in cash, then we may, but are not obligated, subject to a limited exception, to elect to pay dividends in shares of our class A common stock. However, the payment of dividends in shares of our class A common stock will cause dilution to holders of our class A common stock and exposes holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock to dilution and the risk of fluctuations in the price of our class A common stock. Additionally, even if we choose to pay dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in shares of class A common stock, the number of shares of class A common stock that we are permitted to deliver may be limited. If we fail to declare and pay full dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, then we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our class A common stock and any other junior securities, subject to limited exceptions. Although we do not currently pay dividends on our class A common stock, if we decide to do so in the future, a reduction or elimination of dividends on our class A common stock may cause the trading price of our class A common stock to decline, which, in turn, will likely depress the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. 36 Not all events that may adversely affect the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and our class A common stock will result in an adjustment to the conversion rate of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock The conversion rate of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is subject to adjustment for certain events, including: certain stock dividends, splits and combinations; the issuance of certain rights, options or warrants to holders of our class A common stock; certain distributions of assets, debt securities, capital stock or other property to holders of our class A common stock; cash dividends on our class A common stock; and certain tender or exchange offers. We are not required to adjust the conversion rate for other events, such as third-party tender offers or an issuance of class A common stock (or securities exercisable for, or convertible into, class A common stock) for cash, that may adversely affect the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and the trading price of our class A common stock. An event may occur that adversely affects the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and the trading price of the underlying shares of our class A common stock but that does not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate. Certain events that can significantly reduce, or eliminate entirely, the option value of the conversion right of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock will not require an adjustment to the conversion rate. For example, if we are party to a business combination transaction pursuant to which our class A common stock is acquired solely for cash, then, our series A perpetual strike preferred stock will become convertible solely into cash, which will eliminate the time value, and may harm the option value, of the conversion right of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Similarly, a de-listing of our class A common stock will likely severely reduce the liquidity of the market for our class A common stock and the volatility of the trading price of our class A common stock, which, in turn, will likely reduce the option value of the conversion right of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock significantly. None of these, or certain other, events will, in themselves, require an adjustment to the conversion rate to compensate preferred stockholders for their lost option value. Many convertible instruments contain make-whole provisions that adjust the conversion rate in a manner that is designed to compensate investors for lost option value upon the occurrence of specified events. Our series A perpetual strike preferred stock does not contain such a provision. Accordingly, we may engage in transactions that significantly reduce the option value of the conversion right of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock without a corresponding adjustment to the conversion rate. Our series A perpetual strike preferred stock has only limited voting rights Our series A perpetual strike preferred stock confers no voting rights except with respect to certain dividend arrearages, certain amendments to the terms of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, and certain other limited circumstances, and except as required by the Delaware General Corporation Law. Holding series A perpetual strike preferred stock does not confer the right to vote on an as-converted basis with holders of our class A common stock on matters on which our class A common stockholders are entitled to vote. For example, holders of perpetual strike preferred stock, as such, do not have the right to vote in the general election of our directors, although those holders will have a limited right, voting together with holders of any voting parity stock, if any, with similar voting rights regarding the election of directors upon a failure to pay dividends, which similar voting rights are then exercisable, to elect one director upon the occurrence of each of the following events: (i) if less than the full amount of accumulated and unpaid regular dividends on the outstanding series A perpetual strike preferred stock have been declared and paid in respect of each of four or more consecutive regular dividend payment dates; and (ii) if less than the full amount of accumulated and unpaid regular dividends on the outstanding series A perpetual strike preferred stock have been declared and paid in respect of eight or more consecutive regular dividend payment dates. Accordingly, the voting provisions of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may not afford meaningful protections. We may issue preferred stock in the future that ranks equally with or senior to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights, which may adversely affect the rights of holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and our class A common stock Without the consent of any holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock or class A common stock, we may authorize and issue preferred stock (including additional series A perpetual strike preferred stock) that ranks equally with or senior to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. If we issue any such preferred stock in the future, the rights of holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and our class A common stock will be diluted and the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and class A common stock may decline. For example, if we issue any dividend senior stock in the future, such dividend senior stock could contain provisions that prohibit us from paying accumulated dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock or purchasing, redeeming or acquiring our series A 37 perpetual strike preferred stock until and unless we first pay accumulated dividends in full on such dividend senior stock. The issuance of any dividend senior stock in the future would also have the effect of further subordinating our class A common stock. Future sales or other dilution of our class A common stock, including other equity-related securities, could dilute our existing stockholders or otherwise depress the market price of our class A common stock and the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock Future sales of our class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, or the issuance of class A common stock upon the conversion of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock could negatively impact the market price of our class A common stock, and, accordingly, the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. The terms of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock do not restrict our ability to issue additional series A perpetual strike preferred stock, class A common stock or other equity-related securities in the future. Future sales or issuances of class A common stock, series A perpetual strike preferred stock or other equity-related securities could be dilutive to holders of our class A common stock and series A perpetual strike preferred stock and could adversely affect their voting and other rights and economic interests. If we issue additional shares of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, shares of class A common stock (including as payment for regular dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock), or other equity-related securities, the price of our class A common stock and the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may decline. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our class A common stock or other securities or the effect, if any, that the issuance of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, and future sales and issuances of our class A common stock and other securities would have on the market price of our class A common stock and the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. In addition, the existence of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock into shares of class A common stock could depress the price of our class A common stock. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of class A common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our class A common stock to decline. Recent and future regulatory actions, changes in market conditions and other events may adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock and the ability of investors to implement a convertible arbitrage trading strategy We expect that holders of our perpetual strike preferred stock may seek to employ a convertible arbitrage strategy. Under this strategy, investors typically sell short a certain number of shares of our class A common stock and adjust their short position over time while they continue to hold our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Investors may also implement this type of strategy by entering into swaps on our class A common stock in lieu of, or in addition to, short selling shares of our class A common stock. The SEC and other regulatory authorities have implemented various rules and taken certain actions, and may in the future adopt additional rules and take other actions, that may impact those engaging in short selling activity involving equity securities (including our class A common stock). These rules and actions include Rule 201 of SEC Regulation SHO, the adoption by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., and the national securities exchanges of a limit up-limit down program, the imposition of market-wide circuit breakers that halt trading of securities for certain periods following specific market declines, and the implementation of certain regulatory reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Any governmental or regulatory action that restricts investors ability to effect short sales of our class A common stock or enter into equity swaps on our class A common stock could depress the trading price of, and the liquidity of the market for, our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. In addition, the liquidity of the market for our class A common stock and other market conditions could deteriorate, which could reduce, or eliminate entirely, the number of shares available for lending in connection with short sale transactions and the number of counterparties willing to enter into an equity swap on our class A common stock with an investor of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. These and other market events could make implementing a convertible arbitrage strategy prohibitively expensive or infeasible. If investors seeking to employ a convertible arbitrage strategy are unable to do so on commercial terms, or at all, then the trading price of, and the liquidity of the market for, our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may significantly decline. Holders of series A perpetual strike preferred stock may be treated as receiving deemed distributions and/or receive distributions paid in class A common stock, and consequently may be subject to tax with respect to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock under certain circumstances, even though no corresponding distribution of cash has been made Under Section 305 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may be treated as receiving a deemed distribution on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock under certain circumstances, including (i) an increase in the liquidation preference of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock or (ii) if our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is issued at a discount. If our board of directors does not declare a dividend on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in respect of any dividend period before the related dividend payment date, the deferred dividend may be treated as an increase in the liquidation preference of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock that gives rise to a deemed dividend to holders of 38 our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Although the matter is not entirely clear, we believe such deferred dividend or discount should not be treated as giving rise to a deemed distribution on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. However, there is no assurance that the IRS or an applicable withholding agent will not take a contrary position. In addition, the conversion rate of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. If and to the extent that certain adjustments in the conversion rate (or failures to adjust the conversion rate) increase the proportionate interest of a holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in our assets or earnings and profits, the holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may be deemed to have received for U.S. federal income tax purposes a deemed distribution without the receipt of any cash or property. Furthermore, upon a conversion of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock into shares of our class A common stock, depending on the circumstances, any class A common stock received in respect of any deferred and unpaid dividend (and any dividend that has been declared and not yet paid as well as any accrued but unpaid dividend in the then-current dividend period) could be treated as a deemed distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any deemed distribution or any distribution to holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock that is paid in shares of our class A common stock will generally be taxable to the same extent as a cash distribution. In addition, for any holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock that is a non-U.S. holder, any deemed distribution or non-cash distribution could be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable treaty. Because deemed distributions or non-cash distributions received by a holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock would not give rise to any cash from which any applicable withholding tax could be satisfied, if we (or an applicable withholding agent) pay withholding (including backup withholding) on behalf of a holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, we (or an applicable withholding agent) may set off any such payment against, or withhold such taxes from, payments of cash or delivery of shares of our class A common stock to such holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock (or, in some circumstances, any payments on our class A common stock) or sales proceeds received by, or other funds or assets of, such holder of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, or require alternative arrangements (e.g., deposit for taxes prior to delivery of such dividend in the form of shares of our class A common stock or of conversion consideration). The application of the rules under Section 305 of the Code to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is uncertain, and holders of perpetual strike preferred stock should consult their tax advisors about the impact of these rules in their particular situations. Holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may not be entitled to the dividends-received deduction or preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income Distributions paid to corporate U.S. holders may be eligible for the dividends-received deduction and distributions paid to non-corporate U.S. holders may be subject to tax at the preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if we have current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes and certain holding period and other requirements are met. We may not have sufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits during any fiscal year for the distributions on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock to qualify as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If any distributions on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock with respect to any fiscal year are not eligible for the dividends-received deduction or for the preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income because of insufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits, the market value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may decline. The tax rules applicable to fast-pay stock could result in adverse consequences to holders of perpetual strike preferred stock Under Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 7701(l) of the Code (the Fast-Pay Stock Regulations), if stock of a corporation is structured such that dividends paid with respect to the stock are economically (in whole or in part) a return of the stockholders investment (rather than a return on the stockholders investment), then the stock is characterized as fast-pay stock and is subject to adverse tax reporting requirements and potentially penalties. In addition, under the Fast-Pay Stock Regulations, unless clearly demonstrated otherwise, stock is presumed to be fast-pay stock if it is structured to have a dividend that is reasonably expected to decline (as opposed to a dividend rate that is reasonably expected to fluctuate or remain constant) (for such purpose, the dividend rate may be viewed as reasonably expected to decline if we are reasonably expected to stop paying regular dividends on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock) or is issued for an amount that exceeds (by more than a de minimis amount, as determined under applicable Treasury Regulations) the amount at which the stockholder can be compelled to dispose of the stock. It is not clear what amount would constitute de minimis in the case of stock with a perpetual term. We do not believe that our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock is fast-pay stock. We may issue additional shares of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock (or resell any shares that we or any of our subsidiaries have purchased or otherwise acquired) (such additional or resold shares, the Additional Shares). We do not intend to issue any Additional Shares that would be treated as fast-pay stock. Moreover, we intend to obtain advice of counsel in connection with future offerings of Additional Shares for the purpose of analyzing the consequences of issuing such Additional Shares in light of any legal developments regarding the definition of fast-pay stock. It is possible, however, that Additional Shares may be issued at a premium 39 above their liquidation preference. Based on the expected overall circumstances of an offering of Additional Shares (such as our general expectation that the value of the conversion option would, at issuance, exceed the amount of any such premium and certain other factors), we do not believe that such premium would be attributable to dividends that are economically a return of a stockholders investment. Nonetheless, there may be increased risk that the IRS could assert that such Additional Shares constitute fast-pay stock. Transactions involving fast-pay stock arrangements are treated as listed transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Issuers and holders of any shares of fast-pay stock would be required to report their participation in the transaction on IRS Form 8886 on an annual basis with their U.S. federal income tax returns and would also be required to mail a copy of that form to the IRS Office of Tax Shelter Analysis. Failure to comply with those disclosure requirements could result in the assessment by the IRS of interest, additions to tax and onerous penalties. In addition, an accuracy-related penalty applies under the Code to any reportable transaction understatement attributable to a listed transaction if a significant purpose of the transaction is the avoidance or evasion of U.S. federal income tax. Furthermore, certain material advisors would also be required to file a disclosure statement with the IRS. If we determine that we are required to file an IRS Form 8886 (including a protective filing) in connection with the potential issuance of fast-pay stock with respect to our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock or Additional Shares, we intend to provide public notice to the holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock or Additional Shares, as applicable, which notice may be by a press release, by publication on our investor relations website, or by filing a current report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Notwithstanding our intent not to issue Additional Shares that would be fast-pay stock, the rules regarding the definition of fast-pay stock are unclear in certain respects and, therefore, the IRS could disagree with our determination and treat such Additional Shares as fast-pay stock. In addition, even though we believe that our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is not fast-pay stock, treatment of the Additional Shares as fast-pay stock could result in adverse consequences to holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock because such Additional Shares may be indistinguishable from our previously issued our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Accordingly, holders of series A perpetual strike preferred stock are strongly urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the Fast-Pay Stock Regulations and their potential consequences to an investment in our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. A future issuance of Additional Shares could have an adverse tax profile, which could subject holders of our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock to adverse consequences If we issue Additional Shares that have a different, and potentially adverse, tax profile or treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes from our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, since such Additional Shares would trade under the same CUSIP or other identifying number as that of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may be treated by subsequent purchasers, withholding agents and potentially the IRS as having the same profile or treatment as such Additional Shares if our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock is not otherwise distinguishable from the Additional Shares. For example, notwithstanding our intent not to issue any Additional Shares that are fast-pay stock, the IRS could assert that such Additional Shares constitute fast-pay stock, particularly if they are issued at a premium to their liquidation preference. Furthermore, if any Additional Shares are issued at a price that exceeds their liquidation preference, such Additional Shares would constitute disqualified preferred stock within the meaning of Section 1059(f)(2) of the Code and any corporate U.S. holder generally will be required to reduce its tax basis (but not below zero) in our series A perpetual strike preferred stock by the amount of any dividends-received deduction it receives. If Additional Shares issued are considered disqualified preferred stock, our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock could also be subject to same treatment as a practical matter due to fungible trading. If any Additional Shares are sold at a discount (or at a discount that exceeds the discount that applies to our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock), such Additional Shares may be subject to rules that require the accrual of such discount (or such greater discount) currently over the deemed term of the Additional Shares as deemed distributions under U.S. tax rules similar to those governing original issue discount for debt instruments. In that event, the IRS or a withholding agent may treat any such discount as resulting in deemed taxable distributions with respect to our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock as well as such Additional Shares. Because the IRS or other parties (such as withholding agents) may not be able to distinguish between our previously issued series A perpetual strike preferred stock and the Additional Shares, a holder of series A perpetual strike preferred stock might be subject to adverse tax consequences or might be required to demonstrate to the IRS (or such other parties) that the holder purchased our series A perpetual strike preferred stock as opposed to such Additional Shares. Moreover, any adverse tax consequences as described above in connection with the future issuance of Additional Shares may adversely affect the market value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. Provisions of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover of us Certain provisions in our series A perpetual strike preferred stock could make a third-party attempt to acquire us more difficult or expensive. For example, if a takeover constitutes a fundamental change, then, subject to certain exceptions, preferred stockholders will have the right to require us to repurchase their series A perpetual strike preferred stock for cash. These fundamental change provisions 40 could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, including in a transaction that preferred stockholders or holders of our class A common stock may view as favorable. The accounting method for our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may result in lower reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders and lower reported diluted earnings per share The accounting method for reflecting the conversion and other provisions of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in our financial statements may adversely affect our reported earnings. We expect that applicable accounting standards may require us to separately account for the tax redemption feature associated with our series A perpetual strike preferred stock as an embedded derivative. Under this treatment, the embedded derivative would be measured at its fair value and accounted for separately as a liability that is marked-to-market at the end of each reporting period. For each financial statement period after the issuance of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, a gain or loss would be reported in our statement of operations to the extent the valuation of the embedded derivative changes from the previous period. This accounting treatment may subject our reported net income (loss) to significant non-cash volatility. In addition, we expect that the if-converted method will apply to reflect our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in the calculation of our diluted earnings per share. Under this method, we expect that diluted earnings per share will be calculated assuming that our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is converted at the beginning of the reporting period (or, if later, the time our series A perpetual strike preferred stock is issued). However, this calculation will not be made if reflecting our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in diluted earnings per share in this manner is anti-dilutive. Accordingly, the application of the if-converted method to our series A perpetual strike preferred stock may result in lower reported diluted earnings per share. Furthermore, we have not reached a final determination regarding the accounting treatment for our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, and the description above is preliminary. In addition, accounting standards may change in the future. Accordingly, we may account for our series A perpetual strike preferred stock in a manner that is significantly different than described above. Holding series A perpetual strike preferred stock does not, in itself, confer any rights with respect to our class A common stock Holding series A perpetual strike preferred stock does not confer any rights with respect to our class A common stock (including the voting rights of, and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on, our class A common stock). However, holders of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock are subject to all changes affecting our class A common stock to the extent the value of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock depends on the market price of our class A common stock and to the extent they receive shares of our class A common stock upon conversion of our series A perpetual strike preferred stock. For example, if we propose an amendment to our charter documents that requires the approval of our class A common stockholders but not the approval of the preferred stockholders, then holders of any perpetual strike preferred stock will not, as such, be entitled to vote on the amendment, although those holders will be subject to any changes implemented by that amendment in the powers, preferences or special rights of our class A common stock. Risks Related to Our Outstanding and Potential Future Indebtedness Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to further execute on our bitcoin strategy, fund our enterprise analytics software operations, and take advantage of new business opportunities As of December 31, 2024, we had $7.274 billion aggregate indebtedness, consisting of $1.05 billion aggregate principal amount of 2027 Convertible Notes, $1.01 billion aggregate principal amount of 2028 Convertible Notes, $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2029 Convertible Notes, $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2030 Convertible Notes, $603.8 million aggregate principal amount of 2031 Convertible Notes, $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2032 Convertible Notes, and $9.8 million of other long-term indebtedness. We refer herein to the 2027 Convertible Notes, 2028 Convertible Notes, 2029 Convertible Notes, 2030 Convertible Notes, 2031 Convertible Notes, and 2032 Convertible Notes, collectively, as the Convertible Notes. As of December 31, 2024, our annual contractual interest expense relating to our Convertible Notes was $34.6 million. Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to us, including: limiting our ability to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations in other areas of our business, including for acquisition of additional bitcoin, working capital, research and development, expanding our infrastructure, capital expenditures, and other general business activities and investment opportunities in our company, because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to pay interest on and/or service our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for acquisition of additional bitcoin, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions, execution of our strategy, and other expenses or investments planned by us; limiting our flexibility and our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, our business, and our industry; increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in our business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally; 41 placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; and limiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness. We may be unable to service our indebtedness, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which is influenced, in part, by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, counterparty business, and other risks that are beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the U.S. banking and capital markets. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, to refinance our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Even if refinancing indebtedness is available, any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. In addition, our bitcoin strategy anticipates that we may issue additional debt in future periods to finance additional purchases of bitcoin, but if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures, we may be required to sell bitcoin. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or our financial covenants, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Any of these events could in turn result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. We may not have sufficient funds available to pay the amounts due upon any such default, particularly in the event that there has been a decrease in the market value of our bitcoin holdings, and we may not be able to raise additional funds to pay such amounts on a timely basis, on terms we find acceptable, or at all. Any financing that we may undertake under such circumstances could result in substantial dilution of our existing stockholders, and in the absence of being able to obtain such financing, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes in cash or to repurchase the Convertible Notes for cash upon a fundamental change or to repurchase the 2028 Convertible Notes on September 15, 2027, the 2029 Convertible Notes on June 1, 2028, the 2030 Convertible Notes or the 2031 Convertible Notes on September 15, 2028, or the 2032 Convertible Notes on June 15, 2029, and any future debt may contain, limitations on our ability to engage in cash-settled conversions or repurchases of Convertible Notes In connection with any conversion of the Convertible Notes, unless we elect (or have previously irrevocably elected) to deliver solely shares of our class A common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Convertible Notes being converted. However, any future debt may contain limitations on our ability to (i) pay cash upon conversion or redemption of the Convertible Notes, which may require us to elect to deliver solely shares of our class A common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), or (ii) sell certain bitcoin to generate cash that can be used to make such cash payments. Upon a fundamental change as defined in the indentures governing the Convertible Notes, the holders of such notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the applicable notes then outstanding at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the repurchase date. Moreover, the exercise by holders of the Convertible Notes of their right to require us to repurchase such Convertible Notes could cause a default under future debt agreements, even if the change of control or fundamental change itself does not, due to the financial effect of such repurchase on us. In order to obtain sufficient funds to pay the purchase price of such notes, we expect that we would have to refinance the Convertible Notes or obtain a waiver from the applicable holders of Convertible Notes and we may not be able to refinance the Convertible Notes on reasonable terms, if at all. Absent a waiver from the applicable holders of Convertible Notes, our failure to offer to purchase all applicable Convertible Notes or to purchase all validly tendered Convertible Notes would be an event of default under the indentures governing the Convertible Notes. In addition, holders of (i) the 2028 Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes on September 15, 2027, (ii) the 2029 Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes on June 1, 2028, (iii) the 2030 Convertible Notes and the 2031 Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes on September 15, 2028, and (iv) the 2032 Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes on June 15, 2029, 42 in each case, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of the applicable Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert such notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our class A common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Furthermore, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the applicable Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. We use funds from our subsidiaries in order to meet our cash needs and service our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes and our other long-term indebtedness, and certain of our subsidiaries holding digital assets may not provide any dividends, distributions, or other payments to us to fund our obligations and meet our cash needs We receive dividends, distributions, and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, including those arising under the Convertible Notes, and our other long-term indebtedness, and meet our cash needs. The operating results of our subsidiaries at any given time may not be sufficient to make dividends, distributions, or other payments to us in order to allow us to make payments on the Convertible Notes, and our other long-term indebtedness. In addition, dividends, distributions, or other payments, as well as other transfers of assets, between our subsidiaries and from our subsidiaries to us may be subject to legal, regulatory, or contractual restrictions, which may materially adversely affect our ability to transfer cash within our consolidated companies and our ability to meet our cash needs and service our indebtedness. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur substantially more indebtedness and enter into other transactions in the future which could further exacerbate the risks related to our indebtedness Our bitcoin strategy includes acquiring bitcoin using proceeds from equity and debt financings and cash flows from operations. As such, despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur substantially more indebtedness, and we may enter into other transactions in the future. Even if we were to enter into debt financings or other arrangements that contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions may be subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions that would allow us to incur significant additional indebtedness. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described herein with respect to our indebtedness may increase significantly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity As part of our cybersecurity risk management framework, we have implemented comprehensive Corporate Incident Response Plans (IRPs) and other policies and procedures designed to ensure the assessment, identification, and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats, and to facilitate timely disclosure of material cybersecurity incidents in accordance with SEC rules. Our policies provide for cybersecurity awareness training for employees and engagement in due diligence processes in accordance with industry best practices for third-party vendors, including those handling critical services or sensitive data on our behalf. Our policies also provide for regular, senior management-led table-top exercises simulating cyberattack scenarios to ensure preparedness and response agility. We undertake an annual review of our policies to help ensure their effectiveness and relevance in light of evolving cybersecurity threats. Additionally, we maintain cyber insurance to help cover costs associated with the occurrence of certain cybersecurity events. We do not currently engage any other third parties as part of our cybersecurity risk management framework, but we do use third party services and products in the ordinary course with respect to certain common cybersecurity threats. Our IRPs, which are tailored to address potential cybersecurity threats in both our product and corporate infrastructure technology environments, are designed to provide a comprehensive, structured response to cybersecurity incidents, and apply to all Strategy personnel, including employees, directors, temporary staff, and contractors. In accordance with our IRPs, we train our personnel to report any cybersecurity incidents to our Information Security Team (IST). Upon identification of a cybersecurity incident, the IRPs mandate that the IST conduct an immediate evaluation and assign a severity rating to the incident and, depending on the severity, report the incident to our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). Based on the severity of the incident, a Security Incident Response Team (SIRT), the members of which include our Chief Technology Officer (CTO), the CISO, and personnel from various departments, 43 including legal, is convened.The SIRT, with assistance from the IST, is tasked with executing a timely and effective response to the incident, and SIRT members are assigned specific roles and responsibilities, including assessment of the incident's materiality for disclosure purposes. Our CTO and CISO oversee our cybersecurity preparedness. Our CTO has over 25 years of experience in the technology sector, including specifically in the cybersecurity industry, and held various leadership positions prior to joining Strategy in 2018. Our CISO, who joined Strategy as CISO in 2021, has over 20 years of experience with cybersecurity and privacy, and has experience with IT infrastructure technologies, including cloud, network, server, endpoint, and mobile technologies. Our CISO holds a masters degree in computer science and multiple industry-recognized cybersecurity certifications.The IST operates under our CISOs leadership, who in turn reports to our CTO. We administer our cybersecurity risk management framework separately from our other risk management systems and processes, under the oversight of the audit committee of our board of directors and senior management. Strategy's management, including our CTO and CISO, provides the audit committee with regular updates on cybersecurity incidents and emerging threats. The audit committee actively engages with management on the development and implementation of cybersecurity policies and practices, offering insights and guidance. Additionally, board members with significant experience in software technology, such as Michael J. Saylor and Leslie J. Rechan, each with over 30 years of software industry experience, and Phong Le, our Chief Executive Officer, contribute their expertise to our cybersecurity risk management. Unauthorized parties have attempted, and we expect that they will continue to attempt, to gain access to our systems and facilities, as well as those of our third-party vendors, through various means, such as hacking, social engineering, phishing, and fraud. However, the Company does not believe that there are currently any risks from known cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any prior cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company, including its business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings If we or our third-party service providers experience a security breach or cyberattack and unauthorized parties obtain access to our bitcoin, or if our private keys are lost or destroyed, or other similar circumstances or events occur, we may lose some or all of our bitcoin and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Operations If we or our third-party service providers experience a disruption due to a cybersecurity attack or security breach and unauthorized parties obtain access to our customers, prospects, vendors, or channel partners data, our data, our networks or other systems, or the cloud environments we manage, our offerings may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our offerings may be reduced, our operations may be disrupted, we may incur significant legal and financial liabilities, and our business could be materially adversely affected. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2024, we leased approximately 190,000 square feet of office space at a location in Northern Virginia that serves as our corporate headquarters. This lease provides for certain tenant allowances and incentives and will expire in December 2030. In addition, we utilize offices in U.S. and foreign locations for our services and support, sales and marketing, research and development, and administrative personnel. As of December 31, 2024, we utilized approximately 20,000 square feet of office and other space in the United States, in addition to our corporate headquarters, and approximately 87,000 square feet of office space in various foreign locations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. Although the outcomes of these legal proceedings are inherently difficult to predict, we do not expect the resolution of these legal proceedings to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our class A common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol MSTR. There is no established public trading market for our class B common stock. As of February 4, 2025, there were approximately 825 stockholders of record of our class A common stock and two stockholders of record of our class B common stock. Holders of our class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of our class B common stock, except that holders of class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of class B common stock have ten votes per share. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on either our class A or class B common stock and have no current plans to declare or pay any such dividends on our class A or class B common stock. Our series A perpetual strike preferred stock accumulates dividends at a rate per annum equal to 8.00% on the liquidation price thereof, which is $100 per share. Such dividends will be payable when, as and if declared by our board of directors, out of funds legally available for their payment to the extent paid in cash, quarterly in arrears on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning on March 31, 2025, and will be payable, at our election, in cash, shares of our class A common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our class A common stock. We expect to fund any dividends paid in cash on our series A perpetual strike preferred stock primarily through additional capital raising activities, including but not limited to, at-the-market offerings of our class A common stock. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information regarding our series A perpetual strike preferred stock, including such dividends. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our class A common stock from December 31, 2019 (the last trading day before the beginning of our fifth preceding fiscal year) to December 31, 2024 (the last trading day of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024) with the cumulative total return of (i) the Total Return Index for The Nasdaq Stock Market (U.S. Companies) (the Nasdaq Composite Index) and (ii) the Nasdaq Computer Index. The graph assumes the investment of $100.00 on December 31, 2019 in our class A common stock, the Nasdaq Composite Index, and the Nasdaq Computer Index, and assumes that any dividends on our class A common stock are reinvested. Measurement points are December 31, 2019, December 31, 2020, December 31, 2021, December 30, 2022, December 29, 2023, and December 31, 2024. 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/30/2022 12/29/2023 12/31/2024 MicroStrategy Incorporated d/b/a Strategy $ 100.00 $ 272.38 $ 381.65 $ 99.22 $ 442.61 $ 2,029.28 Nasdaq Composite Index $ 100.00 $ 144.92 $ 177.06 $ 119.45 $ 172.77 $ 223.87 Nasdaq Computer Index $ 100.00 $ 149.98 $ 206.76 $ 132.79 $ 221.06 $ 301.44 45 NOTE: Prepared by Zacks Investment Research, Inc. Used with permission. All rights reserved. Copyright 1980-2025. NOTE: Index Data: Copyright NASDAQ OMX, Inc. Used with permission. All rights reserved. Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Information The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. This discussion and analysis should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations, beliefs, estimates and projections, and various assumptions, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. See the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Forward Looking Information and Risk Factor Summary. Actual results and timing of selected events may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10-for-1 stock split On August 7, 2024, we completed a 10-for-1 stock split of our class A and class B common stock. See Note 2(a), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information. As a result of the stock split, all applicable share and per share information presented within this Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. Managements Discussion and Analysis for the Year Ended December 31, 2022 Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022, including comparison of our results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, is included in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Business Overview Strategy is the world's first and largest Bitcoin Treasury Company. We are a publicly traded company that has adopted Bitcoin as our primary treasury reserve asset. By using proceeds from equity and debt financings, as well as cash flows from our operations, we strategically accumulate Bitcoin and advocate for its role as digital capital. Our treasury strategy is designed to provide investors varying degrees of economic exposure to Bitcoin by offering a range of securities, including equity and fixed income instruments. In addition, we provide industry-leading AI-powered enterprise analytics software, advancing our vision of Intelligence Everywhere. We leverage our development capabilities to explore innovation in Bitcoin applications, integrating analytics expertise with our commitment to digital asset growth. We believe our combination of operational excellence, strategic Bitcoin reserve, and focus on technological innovation positions us as a leader in both the digital asset and enterprise analytics sectors, offering a unique opportunity for long-term value creation. Our Bitcoin Strategy Our bitcoin strategy generally involves from time to time, subject to market conditions, (i) issuing debt or equity securities or engaging in other capital raising transactions with the objective of using the proceeds to purchase bitcoin and (ii) acquiring bitcoin with our liquid assets that exceed working capital requirements. We intend to fund further bitcoin acquisitions primarily through issuances of common stock and a variety of fixed-income instruments, including debt, convertible notes and preferred stock. We view our bitcoin holdings as long-term holdings and expect to continue to accumulate bitcoin. We have not set any specific target for the amount of bitcoin we seek to hold, and we will continue to monitor market conditions in determining whether to engage in additional financings to purchase additional bitcoin. This overall strategy also contemplates that we may (i) periodically sell bitcoin for general corporate purposes or in connection with strategies that generate tax benefits in accordance with applicable law, (ii) enter into additional capital raising transactions that are collateralized by our bitcoin holdings, and (iii) consider pursuing strategies to create income streams or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings. Additionally, we periodically engage in advocacy and educational activities regarding the continued acceptance and value of Bitcoin as an open, secure protocol for an internet-native digital capital asset, and we leverage our software development capabilities to explore innovation in Bitcoin applications. Under our Treasury Reserve Policy, our treasury reserve assets consist of: cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments (Cash Assets) held by us that exceed working capital requirements; and 47 bitcoin held by us, with bitcoin serving as the primary treasury reserve asset on an ongoing basis, subject to market conditions and anticipated needs of the business for Cash Assets. During 2023 and 2024, we used proceeds from various capital raising transactions to purchase bitcoin. As of December 31, 2024, we held an aggregate of approximately 447,470 bitcoins. The following table presents a roll-forward of our bitcoin holdings, including additional information related to our bitcoin purchases, sales, and digital asset impairment losses within the respective periods: Source of Capital Used to Purchase Bitcoin Digital Asset Original Cost Basis (in thousands) Digital Asset Impairment Losses (in thousands) Digital Asset Carrying Value (in thousands) Approximate Number of Bitcoins Held Approximate Average Purchase Price Per Bitcoin Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 3,993,190 $ (2,153,162 ) $ 1,840,028 132,500 $ 30,137 Digital asset purchases (a) 1,902,299 1,902,299 56,650 33,580 Digital asset impairment losses (115,851 ) (115,851 ) Balance at December 31, 2023 $ 5,895,489 $ (2,269,013 ) $ 3,626,476 189,150 $ 31,168 Digital asset purchases (b) 22,072,759 22,072,759 258,320 85,447 Digital asset impairment losses (1,789,862 ) (1,789,862 ) Balance at December 31, 2024 $ 27,968,248 $ (4,058,875 ) $ 23,909,373 447,470 $ 62,503 (a) During 2023, we purchased bitcoin using $1.864 billion of the net proceeds from our sale of class A common stock under our at-the-market equity offering programs, and $37.9 million of Excess Cash. (b) During 2024, we purchased bitcoin using $16.330 billion of the net proceeds from our sale of class A common stock under our at-the-market equity offering program, $2.974 billion of the net proceeds from our issuance of the 2029 Convertible Notes, $782.0 million of the net proceeds from our issuance of the 2030 Convertible Notes, $756.0 million of the net proceeds from our issuance of the 2032 Convertible Notes, $592.3 million of the net proceeds from our issuance of the 2031 Convertible Notes, $458.2 million of the net proceeds from our issuance of the 2028 Convertible Notes, and $179.7 million of Excess Cash. Excess Cash refers to cash in excess of the minimum Cash Assets that we are required to hold under our Treasury Reserve Policy, which may include cash generated by operating activities and cash from the proceeds of financing activities. The following table shows the approximate number of bitcoins held at the end of each respective period, as well as market value calculations of our bitcoin holdings based on the lowest, highest, and ending market prices of one bitcoin on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market) for each respective year, as further defined below: Approximate Number of Bitcoins Held at End of Year Lowest Market Price Per Bitcoin During Year (a) Market Value of Bitcoin Held at End of Year Using Lowest Market Price (in thousands) (b) Highest Market Price Per Bitcoin During Year (c) Market Value of Bitcoin Held at End of Year Using Highest Market Price (in thousands) (d) Market Price Per Bitcoin at End of Year (e) Market Value of Bitcoin Held at End of Year Using Ending Market Price (in thousands) (f) December 31, 2022 132,500 $ 15,460.00 $ 2,048,450 $ 48,240.00 $ 6,391,800 $ 16,556.32 $ 2,193,712 December 31, 2023 189,150 $ 16,490.00 $ 3,119,084 $ 45,000.00 $ 8,511,750 $ 42,531.41 $ 8,044,816 December 31, 2024 447,470 $ 38,501.00 $ 17,228,042 $ 108,388.88 $ 48,500,772 $ 93,390.21 $ 41,789,317 (a) The Lowest Market Price Per Bitcoin During Year represents the lowest market price for one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange during the respective year, without regard to when we purchased any of our bitcoin. (b) The Market Value of Bitcoin Held at End of Year Using Lowest Market Price represents a mathematical calculation consisting of the lowest market price for one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange during the respective year multiplied by the number of bitcoins held by us at the end of the applicable year. (c) The Highest Market Price Per Bitcoin During Year represents the highest market price for one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange during the respective year, without regard to when we purchased any of our bitcoin. (d) The Market Value of Bitcoin Held at End of Year Using Highest Market Price represents a mathematical calculation consisting of the highest market price for one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange during the respective year multiplied by the number of bitcoins held by us at the end of the applicable year. (e) The Market Price Per Bitcoin at End of Year represents the market price of one bitcoin on the Coinbase exchange at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the last day of the respective year. 48 (f) The Market Value of Bitcoin Held at End of Year Using Ending Market Price represents a mathematical calculation consisting of the market price of one bitcoin on the Coinbase exchange at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the last day of the respective year multiplied by the number of bitcoins held by us at the end of the applicable year. The amounts reported as Market Value in the above table represent only a mathematical calculation consisting of the price for one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market) in each scenario defined above multiplied by the number of bitcoins held by us at the end of the applicable year. Bitcoin and bitcoin markets may be subject to manipulation and the spot price of bitcoin may be subject to fraud and manipulation. Accordingly, the Market Value amounts reported above may not accurately represent fair market value, and the actual fair market value of our bitcoin may be different from such amounts and such deviation may be material. Moreover, (i) the bitcoin market historically has been characterized by significant volatility in price, limited liquidity and trading volumes compared to sovereign currencies markets, relative anonymity, a developing regulatory landscape, potential susceptibility to market abuse and manipulation, compliance and internal control failures at exchanges, and various other risks that are, or may be, inherent in its entirely electronic, virtual form and decentralized network and (ii) we may not be able to sell our bitcoins at the Market Value amounts indicated above, at the market price as reported on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market) on the date of sale, or at all. Our digital asset impairment losses have significantly contributed to our operating expenses. During 2024, digital asset impairment losses of $1.790 billion represented 81.8% of our operating expenses, compared to digital asset impairment losses of $115.9 million during 2023, representing 23.1% of our operating expenses. Upon our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025, we will no longer recognize impairment losses under the current cost-less-impairment accounting model described in Note 2(g), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Digital Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In future periods, both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in fair value of our bitcoin holdings will be recognized as incurred in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 3, Recent Accounting Standards, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As of February 14, 2025, we held approximately 478,740 bitcoins that were acquired at an aggregate purchase price of $31.134 billion and an average purchase price of approximately $65,033 per bitcoin, inclusive of fees and expenses. As of February 14, 2025, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, the market price of one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange was $97,236.98. Enterprise Analytics Software Strategy Strategy is a pioneer in AI-powered business intelligence (BI), and a global leader in enterprise analytics solutions. We provide software and services designed to turn complex, chaotic data environments into rich, reliable, and convenient information feeds for our customers. Our vision is to drive growth and competitive advantage for our customers by delivering Intelligence Everywhere. Our cloud-native flagship, Strategy One, powers some of the largest analytics deployments in the world for customers spanning a wide range of industries, including retail, banking, technology, manufacturing, insurance, consulting, healthcare, telecommunications, and the public sector. Integral to the Strategy One platform are Generative AI capabilities that are designed to automate and accelerate the deployment of AI-enabled applications across the enterprise. By making advanced analytics accessible through conversational AI, Strategy One provides non-technical users with timely, actionable insights for decision-making. The analytics market is highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology and market conditions. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors within and outside of our control. Some of these factors include software quality, performance and reliability; the quality of our service and support teams; marketing and prospecting effectiveness, the ability to incorporate artificial intelligence and other technically advanced features; and our ability to differentiate our products. As we transition our business strategy and product offerings to a cloud-native model, we are continuously enhancing our go-to-market and sales strategies with the goal of focusing on acquiring new customers, driving revenue growth, increasing margins, and streamlining 49 our operations. As part of this strategic transformation, we have taken and will continue to take certain measures to optimize operational and organizational efficiency across all of our corporate functions. Operating Highlights The following table sets forth certain operating highlights (in thousands) for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Revenues Product licenses $ 48,567 $ 75,351 Subscription services 106,776 81,179 Total product licenses and subscription services 155,343 156,530 Product support 243,805 263,888 Other services 64,308 75,843 Total revenues 463,456 496,261 Cost of revenues Product licenses 3,060 1,929 Subscription services 42,440 31,776 Total product licenses and subscription services 45,500 33,705 Product support 33,289 22,434 Other services 50,679 53,805 Total cost of revenues 129,468 109,944 Gross profit 333,988 386,317 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 138,081 149,671 Research and development 118,486 120,530 General and administrative 140,537 115,312 Digital asset impairment losses 1,789,862 115,851 Total operating expenses 2,186,966 501,364 Loss from operations $ (1,852,978 ) $ (115,047 ) We have incurred significant impairment losses on our digital assets, and we have recognized gains upon sale of our digital assets, which have been presented net of any impairment losses within operating expenses. However, the accounting for our digital assets will change upon our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025. See Note 3, Recent Accounting Standards, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As a result, fluctuations in the price of bitcoin and fair value changes associated therewith will have a significant impact on our future operating results. In addition, we base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends and strategic objectives. Many of our expenses, such as interest expense on debt, declared dividends on our preferred stock, tax liabilities, office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected shortfall in our cash flow. Accordingly, we may be required to take actions to pay expenses, such as selling bitcoin or using proceeds from equity or debt financings, some of which could significantly impact our operating results in any period. We therefore believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. 50 Share-based Compensation Expense As discussed in Note 11, Share-based Compensation, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under our 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended, the 2013 Equity Plan) and 2023 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the 2023 Equity Plan, and together with the 2013 Equity Plan, the Stock Incentive Plans), we have awarded stock options to purchase shares of our class A common stock, restricted stock units, performance stock units, and certain other stock-based awards. Each restricted stock unit and performance stock unit represents a contingent right to receive a share of our class A common stock upon the satisfaction of applicable vesting requirements. We also provide opportunities for eligible employees to purchase shares of our class A common stock under our 2021 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 2021 ESPP). Share-based compensation expense (in thousands) from these awards was recognized in the following cost of revenues and operating expense line items for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Cost of subscription services revenues $ 392 $ 361 Cost of product support revenues 3,929 2,156 Cost of consulting revenues 1,780 1,940 Cost of education revenues 136 99 Sales and marketing 14,846 18,022 Research and development 14,357 13,549 General and administrative 41,684 33,444 Total share-based compensation expense $ 77,124 $ 69,571 The $7.6 million increase in share-based compensation expense during 2024, as compared to the prior year, is primarily due to the grant of additional awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, partially offset by the forfeiture of certain awards and certain awards that became fully vested. As of December 31, 2024, we estimated that an aggregate of approximately $114.3 million of additional share-based compensation expense associated with the Stock Incentive Plans and the 2021 ESPP will be recognized over a remaining weighted average period of 2.3 years. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our significant accounting policies. As described in Note 2, the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and equity, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results and outcomes could differ from these estimates and assumptions. Critical accounting estimates involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and are estimates that have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We consider certain estimates and judgments related to revenue recognition to be critical accounting estimates for us, as discussed further below. Revenue Recognition See Note 2(n), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our significant accounting policies over revenue recognition. Many of our contracts with customers include multiple performance obligations, and we make estimates and judgments to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on an observable or estimated standalone selling price (SSP). The SSP is the price, or estimated price, of the software or service when sold on a standalone basis at contract inception. We consider our evaluation of SSP to be a critical accounting estimate. An observable price of a good or service sold separately provides the best evidence of SSP. However, in many situations, SSP will not be readily observable, but must still be estimated using reasonably available information. We have observable standalone selling prices of our product support, consulting services, and education services, and therefore use historical transaction data on a standalone basis, along with our judgment, to establish SSP ranges for each of these services, as described in Note 2(n). However, SSP is not directly observable for product licenses (product licenses are not sold on a standalone basis and pricing is highly variable) and subscription services (the selling price of subscription services is highly variable), and we use a residual approach to establish SSP for these revenue streams. As such, the establishment of SSP of our product support, consulting services, and education services directly impacts the amount of product licenses and subscription services revenues recognized, and therefore also impacts the overall timing of revenue recognition. We review and analyze the SSP ranges we have established for product support, consulting services, and education services semi-annually, and these SSP ranges do not change significantly year to year. We also perform analyses on at least an annual basis using historical pricing data for both product license and subscription services transactions to assess whether the selling price is highly variable 51 in order to support our conclusion that the residual method to estimate SSP of our product licenses and subscription services continues to be a fair allocation of the transaction price. In the future, SSP for our software and services could be impacted by various factors, including potential changes in our pricing practices, customer demand for our products and services, and various market or economic conditions. However, we consider the risk of significant volatility in our established SSP to be small given our historical transaction experience and internal processes to monitor SSP ranges on an ongoing basis and work with management in the event a trend that could impact the future ranges is detected. Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenues Except as otherwise indicated herein, the term domestic refers to operations in the United States and Canada and the term international refers to operations outside of the United States and Canada. Product licenses and subscription services revenues. The following table sets forth product licenses and subscription services revenues (in thousands) and related percentage changes for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Product Licenses and Subscription Services Revenues: Product Licenses Domestic $ 19,803 $ 39,193 -49.5 % International 28,764 36,158 -20.4 % Total product licenses revenues 48,567 75,351 -35.5 % Subscription Services Domestic 66,820 52,528 27.2 % International 39,956 28,651 39.5 % Total subscription services revenues 106,776 81,179 31.5 % Total product licenses and subscription services revenues $ 155,343 $ 156,530 -0.8 % Product licenses revenues. Product licenses revenues decreased $26.8 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to an overall decrease in the volume of deals. Our product licenses revenues may continue to experience declines in future periods as we continue to promote our cloud offering to new and existing customers. Subscription services revenues. Subscription services revenues are derived from our cloud subscription service for commercial and government use and are recognized ratably over the service period in the contract. Subscription services revenues increased $25.6 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to conversions to cloud-based subscriptions from existing on-premises customers, a net increase in the use of subscription services by existing customers, and sales contracts with new customers. We expect our subscription services revenues to continue to grow in future periods as we continue to promote our cloud offering to new and existing customers. Product support revenues. The following table sets forth product support revenues (in thousands) and related percentage changes for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Product Support Revenues: Domestic $ 144,869 $ 158,308 -8.5 % International 98,936 105,580 -6.3 % Total product support revenues $ 243,805 $ 263,888 -7.6 % Product support revenues are derived from providing technical software support and software updates and upgrades to customers. Product support revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is generally one year. Product support revenues decreased $20.1 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to certain existing customers converting from perpetual product licenses with separate support contracts to our subscription services offerings. Our product support revenues may experience declines in future periods as we continue to promote our cloud offering to new and existing customers. 52 Other services revenues. The following table sets forth other services revenues (in thousands) and related percentage changes for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Other Services Revenues: Consulting Domestic $ 27,646 $ 35,261 -21.6 % International 33,855 36,814 -8.0 % Total consulting revenues 61,501 72,075 -14.7 % Education 2,807 3,768 -25.5 % Total other services revenues $ 64,308 $ 75,843 -15.2 % Consulting revenues. Consulting revenues are derived from helping customers plan and execute the deployment of our software. Consulting revenues decreased $10.6 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in demand for domestic consulting services. Education revenues. Education revenues are derived from the education and training that we provide to our customers to enhance their ability to fully utilize the features and functionality of our software. These offerings include self-tutorials, custom course development, joint training with customers internal staff, and standard course offerings, with pricing dependent on the specific offering delivered. Education revenues decreased $1.0 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in demand for education services. Costs and Expenses Cost of revenues. The following table sets forth cost of revenues (in thousands) and related percentage changes for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Cost of Revenues: Product licenses and subscription services: Product licenses $ 3,060 $ 1,929 58.6 % Subscription services 42,440 31,776 33.6 % Total product licenses and subscription services 45,500 33,705 35.0 % Product support 33,289 22,434 48.4 % Other services: Consulting 48,374 51,311 -5.7 % Education 2,305 2,494 -7.6 % Total other services 50,679 53,805 -5.8 % Total cost of revenues $ 129,468 $ 109,944 17.8 % Cost of product licenses revenues. Cost of product licenses revenues consists of referral fees paid to channel partners, the costs of product manuals and media, and royalties paid to third-party software vendors. Cost of product licenses revenues did not materially change during 2024, as compared to the prior year. Cost of subscription services revenues. Cost of subscription services revenues consists of equipment, facility and other related support costs (including cloud hosting infrastructure costs), and personnel and related overhead costs. Cost of subscription services revenues increased $10.7 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $10.0 million increase in cloud hosting infrastructure costs, which is a result of the increased usage by new and existing cloud subscription services customers. 53 Cost of product support revenues. Cost of product support revenues consists of personnel and related overhead costs. Cost of product support revenues increased $10.9 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due (i) a $3.7 million increase in salaries and personnel costs, (ii) a $2.8 million increase in variable compensation, (iii) a $1.8 million net increase in share-based compensation expense, (iv) a $1.0 million increase in severance costs due to headcount reductions, and (v) a $0.7 million increase in facility and other related support costs. Other than the increase in severance costs, these changes were primarily attributable to an increase in average staffing levels from the internal transfer of certain employees to product support functions, partially offset by the discontinuance of our Enterprise Support program during 2024, which previously resulted in compensation costs for certain consulting personnel being allocated to cost of product support revenues. Cost of consulting revenues. Cost of consulting revenues consists of personnel and related overhead costs. Cost of consulting revenues decreased $2.9 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to (i) a $2.2 million decrease in variable compensation and (ii) a $1.9 million decrease in salaries and personnel costs attributable to a decrease in average staffing levels, partially offset by the discontinuance of our Enterprise Support program (pursuant to which costs associated with certain consulting personnel had been recognized in cost of product support revenues) during 2024, partially offset by (iii) a $1.9 million increase in subcontractor costs. Cost of education revenues. Cost of education revenues consists of personnel and related overhead costs. Cost of education revenues did not materially change during 2024, as compared to the prior year. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, commissions, office facilities, travel, advertising, public relations programs, and promotional events, such as trade shows, seminars, and technical conferences. The following table sets forth sales and marketing expenses (in thousands) and related percentage change for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Sales and marketing expenses $ 138,081 $ 149,671 -7.7 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased $11.6 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to (i) an $8.3 million decrease in variable compensation primarily attributable to an increase in net capitalized commissions driven by changes to our 2024 compensation plans that further incentivized cloud deals compared to the prior year, (ii) a $6.4 million decrease in employee salaries primarily attributable to a decrease in average staffing levels (including from the internal transfer of certain employees to product support functions), partially offset by wage increases, (iii) a $3.2 million net decrease in share-based compensation expense primarily attributable to the forfeiture of certain awards and the internal transfer of certain employees to product support functions, partially offset by the grant of additional awards under the Stock Incentive Plans and the fair value remeasurement of certain liability-classified awards upon exercise or at the end of the reporting period, and (iv) a $1.7 million decrease in facility and other related support costs, partially offset by (v) a $4.1 million increase in personnel costs primarily attributable to an increase in employer payroll taxes related to the exercise or vesting of certain awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, (vi) a $3.0 million increase in marketing costs, and (vii) a $1.5 million increase in severance costs due to headcount reductions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist of the personnel costs for our software engineering personnel and related overhead costs. The following table summarizes research and development expenses (in thousands) and related percentage change for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Research and development expenses $ 118,486 $ 120,530 -1.7 % Research and development expenses decreased $2.0 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to (i) a $6.1 million decrease in employee salaries primarily attributable to a decrease in average staffing levels, partially offset by wage increases, (ii) a $0.8 million decrease in variable compensation, and (iii) a $0.8 million decrease in facility and other related support costs, partially offset by (iv) a $3.8 million increase in severance costs due to headcount reductions, (v) a $1.5 million increase in personnel costs primarily attributable to an increase in employer payroll taxes related to the exercise or vesting of certain awards under the Stock Incentive Plans and (vi) a $0.9 million net increase in share-based compensation expense primarily attributable to the grant of additional awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, partially offset by the forfeiture of certain awards. 54 General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, and other costs of our executive, finance, human resources, information systems, and administrative departments, as well as third-party consulting, legal, and other professional fees, and third-party costs associated with our digital asset holdings. The following table sets forth general and administrative expenses (in thousands) and related percentage change for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change General and administrative expenses $ 140,537 $ 115,312 21.9 % General and administrative expenses increased $25.2 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to (i) an $8.6 million increase in personnel costs primarily attributable to an increase in employer payroll taxes related to the exercise or vesting of certain awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, (ii) an $8.2 million net increase in share-based compensation expense primarily attributable to the grant of additional awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, partially offset by certain awards that became fully vested and the forfeiture of certain awards, (iii) a $6.1 million increase in legal, consulting, and other advisory costs, and (iv) a $4.4 million increase in custodial fees incurred on our bitcoin holdings, partially offset by (v) a $2.7 million decrease in employee salaries primarily attributable to a decrease in average staffing levels, partially offset by wage increases. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in future periods due in part to an increase in bitcoin custodial fees as a result of our significant bitcoin holdings, the recent increase in the market price of bitcoin, and our continued strategy to accumulate additional bitcoin for the foreseeable future. Digital asset impairment losses. Digital asset impairment losses are recognized when the carrying value of our digital assets exceeds their lowest fair value at any time since their acquisition. Impaired digital assets are written down to fair value at the time of impairment, and such impairment loss cannot be recovered for any subsequent increases in fair value. Gains (if any) are not recorded until realized upon sale. The following table sets forth digital asset impairment losses (in thousands) and related percentage change for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Digital asset impairment losses $ 1,789,862 $ 115,851 1,445.0 % We did not sell any of our digital assets during 2024 or 2023. As mentioned above, the accounting for our digital assets will change upon our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025 and we will no longer record digital asset impairment losses. Upon adoption of ASU 2023-08, we are required to report our digital assets at fair value, with resulting gains and losses from changes in fair value recognized in net income each reporting period. As a result, we expect fluctuations in the price of bitcoin to have a significant impact on our future operating results. See Note 3, Recent Accounting Standards, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, primarily relates to the contractual interest expense and amortization of issuance costs related to our long-term debt arrangements. The following table sets forth interest expense, net (in thousands) for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Interest expense, net: 2025 Convertible Notes $ 3,865 $ 7,918 2027 Convertible Notes 4,046 4,029 2028 Convertible Notes 2,939 0 2029 Convertible Notes 787 0 2030 Convertible Notes 7,241 0 2031 Convertible Notes 6,063 0 2032 Convertible Notes 11,067 0 2028 Secured Notes 23,915 32,271 2025 Secured Term Loan 0 3,812 Other interest expense, net 2,018 930 Total interest expense, net $ 61,941 $ 48,960 Interest expense, net, increased $13.0 million during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of (i) interest incurred related to the 2032 Convertible Notes (which were issued in June 2024), (ii) interest incurred related to the 2030 Convertible Notes and 2031 Convertible Notes (which were each issued in March 2024), (iii) interest incurred related to the 2028 Convertible Notes (which were issued in September 2024), and (iv) interest incurred related to trade credits with our bitcoin execution partners (which are included 55 within Other interest (income) expense, net in the table above), partially offset by (iv) the 2028 Secured Notes having been redeemed in their entirety on September 26, 2024, (v) the 2025 Convertible Notes having been converted or redeemed in their entirety by July 15, 2024, and (vi) the repayment of the 2025 Secured Term Loan in March 2023. Refer to Note 8, Long-term Debt, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Our future interest expense may be significantly impacted by any new debt issuances, as well as redemptions or conversions of existing debt instruments. (Loss) Gain on Debt Extinguishment In 2024, the $22.9 million loss on debt extinguishment resulted from the redemption of the 2028 Secured Notes. In 2023, the $44.7 million gain on debt extinguishment resulted from the repayment of the 2025 Secured Term Loan. Refer to Note 8, Long-term Debt, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income, net, of $3.5 million in 2024 was comprised primarily of foreign currency transaction net gains. Other expense, net, of $5.2 million in 2023 was comprised primarily of foreign currency transaction net losses. Benefit from Income Taxes During 2024, we recorded a benefit from income taxes of $767.7 million on a pre-tax loss of $1.934 billion that resulted in an effective tax rate of 39.7%, as compared to a benefit from income taxes of $553.6 million on a pre-tax loss of $124.5 million that resulted in an effective tax rate of 444.6% during 2023. During 2024, our benefit from income taxes primarily related to (i) a tax benefit from an increase in our deferred tax asset related to the impairment on our bitcoin holdings and (ii) a tax benefit related to share-based compensation (including the income tax effects of exercises of stock options and vesting of share-settled restricted stock units). During 2023, our benefit from income taxes primarily related to the release of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset related to the impairment on our bitcoin holdings, attributable to the increase in market value of bitcoin as of December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposed a mandatory deemed repatriation transition tax (Transition Tax) on previously untaxed accumulated and current earnings and profits of certain of our foreign subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2024, $9.2 million of the Transition Tax was unpaid, all of which is included in Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and operating lease liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 31, 2024, we had $775.9 million of U.S. federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and $5.9 million of foreign NOL carryforwards. As of December 31, 2024, we also had gross state NOLs of $1.207 billion of which $381.1 million will expire between 2034 and 2044 and the remainder can be carried forward indefinitely. As of December 31, 2024, digital asset impairment losses, other temporary differences and carryforwards resulted in deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances and deferred tax liabilities, of $1.525 billion. As of December 31, 2024, we had a valuation allowance of $0.5 million primarily related to foreign tax credits in certain jurisdictions. Our largest deferred tax asset relates to the impairment on our bitcoin holdings which will reverse upon our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025. If the market value of bitcoin at a future date is less than the average cost of our bitcoin holdings at such reporting date, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets. We routinely consider actions necessary to preserve or utilize tax attributes. We will continue to regularly assess the realizability of deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2024, we have not indefinitely reinvested any of our undistributed foreign earnings and have recorded a deferred tax liability of $4.0 million on undistributed foreign earnings related to foreign withholding tax and U.S. state income taxes. The U.S. enacted the IRA in August 2022. Among other things, unless an exemption by statute or regulation applies, a provision of the IRA imposes a 15% CAMT on a corporation with respect to an initial tax year and subsequent tax years, if the average annual adjusted financial statement income for any consecutive three-tax-year period preceding the initial tax year exceeds $1 billion. On September 12, 2024, the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations with respect to the application of the CAMT. Due to our adoption of ASU 2023-08, we were required to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment of $12.745 billion to the opening balance of our retained earnings as of January 1, 2025. We will additionally be required to recognize unrealized gains or losses from changes in the fair value of digital assets in future reporting periods as income or losses. For purposes of calculating the adjusted financial statement income, we will be required to ratably allocate from 2025 through 2028 the increase to our retained earnings. When determining whether we are subject to CAMT and when calculating any related tax liability for an applicable tax year, the proposed regulations provide that, among other adjustments, our adjusted financial statement income must include this ratable amount in addition to any unrealized gains or losses reported in the applicable tax year. Accordingly, as a result of the enactment of the IRA and our adoption of ASU 2023-08 on January 1, 2025, unless the IRA is amended or the proposed regulations, when finalized, are revised to provide relief (or other interim relief is granted), we could become subject to CAMT in the tax years 2026 and beyond. As the taxes to which we are subject will depend in significant part on the future price of bitcoin and the size of our bitcoin holdings, we are not able to estimate the impact of CAMT on our future income tax expense. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business in 56 GeneralUnrealized fair value gains on our bitcoin holdings could cause us to become subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. Deferred Revenue and Advance Payments Deferred revenue and advance payments represent amounts received or due from our customers in advance of our transferring our software or services to the customer. In the case of multi-year service contract arrangements, we generally do not invoice more than one year in advance of services and do not record deferred revenue for amounts that have not been invoiced. Revenue is subsequently recognized in the period(s) in which control of the software or services is transferred to the customer. The following table summarizes deferred revenue and advance payments (in thousands), as of: December 31, 2024 2023 Current: Deferred product licenses revenue $ 1,777 $ 3,579 Deferred subscription services revenue 107,119 65,512 Deferred product support revenue 124,684 152,012 Deferred other services revenue 4,394 7,059 Total current deferred revenue and advance payments $ 237,974 $ 228,162 Non-current: Deferred product licenses revenue $ 174 $ 0 Deferred subscription services revenue 2,263 3,097 Deferred product support revenue 2,111 4,984 Deferred other services revenue 422 443 Total non-current deferred revenue and advance payments $ 4,970 $ 8,524 Total current and non-current: Deferred product licenses revenue $ 1,951 $ 3,579 Deferred subscription services revenue 109,382 68,609 Deferred product support revenue 126,795 156,996 Deferred other services revenue 4,816 7,502 Total current and non-current deferred revenue and advance payments $ 242,944 $ 236,686 The portions of multi-year contracts that will be invoiced in the future are not presented on the balance sheet in Accounts receivable, net and Deferred revenue and advance payments and instead are included in the remaining performance obligation disclosure below. Total deferred revenue and advance payments increased $6.3 million in 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to (i) an increase in deferred revenue from subscription services contracts, partially offset by (ii) a decrease in deferred product support revenue from an increase in conversions from on-premises to subscription services contracts. Our remaining performance obligation represents all future revenue under contract and includes deferred revenue and advance payments and billable non-cancellable amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. The remaining performance obligation excludes contracts that are billed in arrears, such as certain time and materials contracts. As of December 31, 2024, we had an aggregate transaction price of $454.9 million allocated to the remaining performance obligation related to subscription services, product support, product licenses, and other services contracts. We expect to recognize approximately $278.4 million of the remaining performance obligation over the next 12 months and the remainder thereafter. However, the timing and ultimate recognition of our deferred revenue and advance payments and other remaining performance obligations depend on our satisfaction of various performance obligations, and the amount of deferred revenue and advance payments and remaining performance obligations at any date should not be considered indicative of revenues for any succeeding period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity. Principal and Potential Sources of Liquidity Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents and on-going collection of our accounts receivable. Cash and cash equivalents may include holdings in bank demand deposits, money market instruments, certificates of deposit, and U.S. Treasury securities. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we held cash and cash equivalents of (i) $8.8 million and $10.5 million, respectively, through our U.S. entities and (ii) $29.3 million and $36.3 million, respectively, through our non-U.S. entities. We earn a significant amount of our revenues outside the United States and we repatriated foreign earnings and profits of $6.5 million during 2024 and $20.3 million during 2023. 57 Under our Treasury Reserve Policy and bitcoin strategy, we use a significant portion of our cash, including cash generated from capital raising transactions, to acquire bitcoins, which are classified as indefinite-lived intangible assets. As of December 31, 2024, we held approximately 447,470 bitcoins, all of which are unencumbered. As of February 14, 2025, we held approximately 478,740 bitcoins, all of which are unencumbered, and which had an aggregate market value of $46.551 billion, based on the market price of one bitcoin as reported on the Coinbase exchange as of 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time. As discussed further below, although we do not anticipate needing to use our bitcoin to meet our obligations in the next twelve months, we believe our substantial bitcoin holdings can serve as a source of liquidity, if necessary. See Availability of Bitcoin for Liquidity below. On October 30, 2024, we filed a prospectus for a new at-the-market equity offering program pursuant to which we may sell class A common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $21 billion from time to time. As of December 31, 2024 and February 14, 2025, approximately $6.775 billion and $4.168 billion, respectively, of our class A common stock remained available for issuance and sale pursuant to the October 2024 Sales Agreement. To the extent we make sales under the October 2024 Sales agreement, we can use the net proceeds from such sales for general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of bitcoin and for working capital. See At-the-Market Equity Offerings below. Contractual and Other Obligations Our material contractual obligations (explained in further detail in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as referenced below) and cash requirements consist of: principal and interest payments related to our long-term debt (Note 8, Long-term Debt), which includes: o principal due upon maturity of our long-term debt instruments in the aggregate of $7.272 billion; o $3.2 million in coupon interest due each semi-annual period for the 2028 Convertible Notes; o $2.5 million in coupon interest due each semi-annual period for the 2030 Convertible Notes; o $2.6 million in coupon interest due each semi-annual period for the 2031 Convertible Notes; o $9.0 million in coupon interest due each semi-annual period for the 2032 Convertible Notes; and o $0.1 million due monthly in principal and interest related to our other long-term secured debt; payments under various purchase agreements, primarily related to third-party cloud hosting services, third-party software supporting our products, marketing, and operations, and a new corporate aircraft (Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies); rent payments under noncancellable operating leases (Note 7, Leases); payments related to the Transition Tax (Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies); and ongoing personnel-related expenditures and vendor payments. In addition, on February 5, 2025 we issued and sold 7,300,000 shares of our 8.00% Series A Perpetual Strike Preferred Stock (Series A Strike Preferred), at a price to the public of $80.00 per share, for net proceeds of approximately $563.4 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and our estimated offering expenses. We listed the Series A Strike Preferred for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol STRK and trading commenced on February 6, 2025. The outstanding shares of Series A Strike Preferred have an aggregate liquidation preference of $730.0 million and accumulate cumulative dividends, which we refer to as regular dividends, at a rate per annum equal to 8.00% on the liquidation preference thereof, regardless of whether or not declared or funds are legally available for their payment. Subject to the other terms of the Series A Strike Preferred, which are set forth in the Certificate of Designations of the Series A Strike Preferred (the Certificate of Designations), which is filed as Exhibit 3.4 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, regular dividends are payable when, as and if declared by our board of directors, out of funds legally available for their payment to the extent paid in cash, quarterly in arrears on each regular dividend payment date to the holders of record of the Series A Strike Preferred as of the close of business on the regular record date immediately preceding the applicable regular dividend payment date. Declared regular dividends on the Series A Strike Preferred are payable, at our election, in cash, shares of our class A common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our class A common stock, in the manner, and subject to the terms, set forth in the Certificate of Designations. If we elect to pay any portion of a declared regular dividend in shares of our class A common stock, then those shares will be valued at 95% of the daily VWAP (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) per share of class A common stock on the third VWAP trading day (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) preceding the regular dividend payment date for such regular dividend. However, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, in no event will the total number of shares of class A common stock issuable per share of Series A Strike Preferred as payment for a declared regular dividend exceed an amount equal to (x) the total dollar amount of such declared regular dividend per share of Series A Strike Preferred divided by (y) the floor price, which is initially equal to $119.03 per share of class A common stock and is subject to adjustment in the manner specified in the Certificate of Designations. If the number of shares that we deliver is limited as a result of this provision, then we will, to the extent we are legally able to do so and not prohibited by the terms of any dividend senior stock (as defined in the Certificate of Designations), declare and pay the related deficiency in cash. If any accumulated regular dividend (or any portion thereof) on the Series A Strike Preferred is not paid on the applicable regular dividend payment date (or, if such regular dividend payment date is not a business day, the next business day), then additional regular dividends, which we refer to as compounded dividends, will accumulate on the amount of such unpaid regular 58 dividend, compounded quarterly at the regular dividend rate, from, and including, such regular dividend payment date to, but excluding, the date the same, including all compounded dividends thereon, is paid in full. We expect to fund any dividends paid in cash on the Series A Strike Preferred primarily through additional capital raising activities, including, but not limited to, at-the-market offerings of our class A common stock. Short-term and Long-term Liquidity Short-term Liquidity. Our short-term liquidity needs include working capital requirements, anticipated capital expenditures, dividend obligations on the Series A Strike Preferred to the extent that we do not pay such dividends in the form of shares of our class A common stock, and contractual obligations due within the next twelve months. We expect our cash and cash equivalents, as of December 31, 2024, together with cash and cash equivalents generated by our operations, will not be sufficient to satisfy these obligations over the next twelve months. However, we anticipate being able to use proceeds from equity or debt financings to meet these obligations. Our ability to obtain equity and debt financing is subject to market conditions and other factors outside of our control, and we may not be able to obtain equity or debt financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all. Although we do not anticipate needing to use our bitcoin to meet our short-term obligations, to the extent necessary, we would seek to use proceeds from the sale of our bitcoin to meet such obligations. See Availability of Bitcoin for Liquidity below and Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business in General A significant decrease in the market value of our bitcoin holdings could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations for additional information. Long-Term Liquidity. Beyond the next 12 months, our long-term cash requirements are primarily for obligations related to our long-term debt and for payment of dividends on the Series A Strike Preferred to the extent that we do not pay such dividends in the form of shares of our class A common stock. We also have long-term cash requirements for obligations related to our operating leases, delivery of our new corporate aircraft, our various purchase agreements, and potentially CAMT. We expect our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2024, together with cash and cash equivalents generated by our operations, will not be sufficient to satisfy these obligations. As a result, we would seek to satisfy these obligations through various options that we expect to be available to us, such as refinancing our debt or generating cash from other sources, which may include proceeds from equity or debt financings, or the sale of our bitcoin. See Availability of Bitcoin for Liquidity below and Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business in GeneralA significant decrease in the market value of our bitcoin holdings could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations for additional information. Furthermore, if the conditional conversion features of the Convertible Notes are triggered, we may elect to settle the conversions of Convertible Notes in shares of our class A common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of class A common stock, rather than in all cash, which may enable us to reduce the amount of our cash obligations under the Convertible Notes. On January 24, 2025, we delivered a notice of full redemption (the Notice) to the trustee of our 2027 Convertible Notes. See Long-term Debt below for additional information. In addition, while the 2028 Convertible Notes, the 2029 Convertible Notes, the 2030 Convertible Notes, the 2031 Convertible Notes, and the 2032 Convertible Notes have maturity dates of September 15, 2028, December 1, 2029, March 15, 2030, March 15, 2031, and June 15, 2032, respectively, the holders of these Convertible Notes each have the right to require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of these Convertible Notes on September 15, 2027, in the case of the 2028 Convertible Notes, June 1, 2028, in the case of the 2029 Convertible Notes, September 15, 2028, in the case of the 2030 Convertible Notes and the 2031 Convertible Notes, or June 15, 2029, in the case of the 2032 Convertible Notes, at a repurchase price in each case equal to 100% of the principal amount of the applicable Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding the repurchase date. Availability of Bitcoin for Liquidity We do not believe we will need to sell or engage in other transactions with respect to any of our bitcoins within the next twelve months to meet our liquidity needs, although we may from time to time sell or engage in other transactions with respect to our bitcoins as part of treasury management operations, as noted above. The bitcoin market historically has been characterized by significant volatility in its price, limited liquidity and trading volumes compared to sovereign currencies markets, relative anonymity, a developing regulatory landscape, susceptibility to market abuse and manipulation, compliance and internal control failures at exchanges, and various other risks inherent in its entirely electronic, virtual form and decentralized network. During times of instability in the bitcoin market, we may not be able to sell our bitcoins at reasonable prices or at all. As a result, our bitcoins are less liquid than our existing cash and cash equivalents and may not be able to serve as a source of liquidity for us to the same extent as cash and cash equivalents. In addition, upon sale of our bitcoin, we may incur additional taxes related to any realized gains or we may incur capital losses as to which the tax deduction may be limited. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and HoldingsOur bitcoin holdings are less liquid than our existing cash and cash equivalents and may not be able to serve as a source of liquidity for us to the same extent as cash and cash equivalents. Cash flows 59 The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows (in thousands) and related percentage changes for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (53,032 ) $ 12,712 517.2 % Net cash used in investing activities $ (22,086,237 ) $ (1,905,237 ) 1059.2 % Net cash provided by financing activities $ 22,132,641 $ 1,889,886 1071.1 % Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities. The primary source of our cash provided by operating activities is cash collections of our accounts receivable from customers following the sales and renewals of our product licenses, subscription services and product support, as well as consulting and education services. Our primary uses of cash in operating activities are for personnel-related expenditures for software development, personnel-related expenditures for providing consulting, education, and subscription services, and for sales and marketing costs, general and administrative costs, interest expense related to our long-term debt arrangements, and income taxes. In 2024 and 2023, non-cash items to further reconcile net (loss) income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, reduction in the carrying amount of operating lease right-of-use assets, credit losses and sales allowances, deferred taxes, release of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, share-based compensation expense, digital asset impairment losses, amortization of the issuance costs on our long-term debt, and gains and losses on extinguishment of debt. Net cash used in operating activities was $53.0 million in 2024, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $12.7 million in 2023. The change in operating cash flows was due to a $1.596 billion decrease in net income and a $21.7 million decrease from changes in operating assets and liabilities, which was partially offset by a $1.552 billion net increase in non-cash items (principally related to digital asset impairment losses and losses on the extinguishment of certain debt instruments, partially offset by deferred taxes). In particular, our cash from operations has been negatively impacted by our continued transition of customers to subscription services offerings, which have resulted in (i) reduced cash collections due to lower revenues and invoicing over multiple years, (ii) increased costs of our cloud infrastructure to support increased usage, and (iii) increased commissions paid to our sales team to incentivize cloud migrations. We have also incurred additional employer payroll taxes related to the exercise or vesting of certain awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, legal and consulting fees, rent expense payments, marketing costs, and bitcoin custodial fees. Our interest payments in 2024 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to interest and fees incurred on trade credits or delayed settlements related to our bitcoin purchases. Cash paid for interest on our debt obligations did not materially change from the prior year due to the extinguishment of the 2028 Secured Notes and 2025 Convertible Notes in 2024 and the Secured Term Loan in 2023, for which the reduction in cash interest was substantially offset by increases in interest paid on the 2030 Convertible Notes, 2031 Convertible Notes, and 2032 Convertible Notes issued in 2024. Our cash from operations was favorably impacted in the current year by a significant reduction in income tax payments (net of refunds) and decreases in headcount, which resulted in reduced salary expenses, partially offset by increases in severance costs. Net cash used in investing activities. In 2024 and 2023, the changes in net cash used in investing activities primarily relate to purchases of digital assets, advance deposits on a new corporate aircraft, and expenditures on property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities increased $20.181 billion during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $20.170 billion increase in purchases of bitcoins and a $10.5 million deposit on a new corporate aircraft. During 2024, we purchased $22.073 billion of bitcoin using net proceeds from the sale of class A common stock under our at-the-market equity offering programs, net proceeds from the issuances of our 2030 Convertible Notes, 2031 Convertible Notes, 2032 Convertible Notes, 2028 Convertible Notes, and 2029 Convertible Notes, and Excess Cash. During 2023, we purchased $1.902 billion of bitcoin using net proceeds from the sale of class A common stock under our at-the-market offering programs, and Excess Cash. Net cash provided by financing activities. In 2024 and 2023, the changes in cash provided by and used in financing activities primarily relate to the issuance and subsequent repayment of our long-term debt, the sale of class A common stock under our at-the-market equity offering programs, the exercise or vesting of certain awards under the Stock Incentive Plans, and the sales of class A common stock under the 2021 ESPP. Net cash provided by financing activities increased $20.243 billion during 2024, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to (i) a $14.310 billion increase in net proceeds from the sale of class A common stock under our at-the-market equity offering programs during 2024 as compared to 2023, (ii) a $6.133 billion increase in long-term debt proceeds, net of issuance costs during 2024 as compared to 2023, (iii) the $160.0 million repayment of the 2025 Secured Term Loan and related third-party extinguishment costs during 2023, which was repaid using proceeds from our sale of class A common stock offered under our at-the-market equity offering programs, and (iv) a $153.8 million increase in proceeds from the exercise of stock options under the Stock Incentive Plans during 2024 as compared to 2023, partially offset by (v) the $515.4 million repayment of the 2028 Secured Notes and related third-party extinguishment costs during 2024, which was repaid using proceeds from the issuance of the 2028 Convertible Notes. 60 Long-term Debt The terms of each of the long-term debt instruments described below are discussed more fully in Note 8, Long-term Debt, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2020, we issued $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Convertible Notes; in February 2021, we issued $1.050 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Convertible Notes; in March 2024, we issued $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2030 Convertible Notes and $603.8 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Convertible Notes; in June 2024, we issued $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2032 Convertible Notes; in September 2024 we issued $1.010 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2028 Convertible Notes; and in November 2024 we issued $3.000 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2029 Convertible Notes. We principally used the net proceeds from the issuances of the Convertible Notes to acquire bitcoin, and we used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2028 Convertible Notes to redeem the 2028 Secured Notes, as discussed further below. During 2024 and 2023, we paid $16.5 million and $4.9 million, respectively, in interest to holders of the Convertible Notes. During 2024, we issued 16,323,050 shares of class A common stock and paid a nominal amount of cash in lieu of fractional shares in connection with conversions of $649.7 million aggregate principal amount of 2025 Convertible Notes and on July 15, 2024 redeemed $0.3 million aggregate principal amount of 2025 Convertible Notes, constituting all of the 2025 Convertible Notes then outstanding, at an aggregate redemption price of $0.3 million, equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2025 Convertible Notes redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding such date. In June 2021, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2028 Secured Notes. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2028 Secured Notes to acquire bitcoin. During 2024 and 2023, we paid $23.9 million and $30.6 million, respectively, in interest to holders of the 2028 Secured Notes. On September 26, 2024, we redeemed all of the outstanding 2028 Secured Notes at an aggregate redemption price of approximately $523.9 million and all collateral securing the 2028 Secured Notes was released. In March 2022, MacroStrategy, our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a Credit and Security Agreement with Silvergate Bank, pursuant to which Silvergate Bank issued the $205.0 million 2025 Secured Term Loan to MacroStrategy. We principally used net proceeds from the 2025 Secured Term Loan to acquire bitcoin. On March 24, 2023, MacroStrategy voluntarily prepaid Silvergate approximately $161.0 million (the Payoff Amount), in full repayment, satisfaction, and discharge of the 2025 Secured Term Loan, and all collateral securing the 2025 Secured Term Loan, including the bitcoin that was serving as collateral, was released. During the first quarter of 2023, we made a final $5.1 million interest payment to Silvergate, $1.1 million of which was included in the Payoff Amount. In June 2022, we, through one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into a secured term loan agreement in the amount of $11.1 million, bearing interest at an annual rate of 5.2%, and maturing in June 2027. During 2024 and 2023, we paid $1.1 million and $1.1 million, respectively, in principal and interest to the lender. Other than as discussed above, during 2024 and 2023, we did not repurchase or prepay any of our outstanding debt. We or our affiliates may, at any time and from time to time, seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity or debt, in open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will be upon such terms and at such prices as we may determine, and will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. We may also seek to prepay our outstanding indebtedness. The amounts involved in any such repurchase or prepayment may be material. We could seek to fund any such debt repurchases or prepayments using proceeds from equity offerings that we may choose to undertake from time-to-time. On January 24, 2025, we delivered the Notice to the trustee for full redemption of our 2027 Convertible Notes. The Notice calls for the redemption of all of the outstanding 2027 Convertible Notes (the Redemption) on February 24, 2025 (the Redemption Date), at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2027 Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid special interest, if any, to but excluding the Redemption Date, unless earlier converted. As a result of the delivery of the Notice, at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on February 20, 2025, the 2027 Convertible Notes are convertible, at the option of the holders of the 2027 Convertible Notes, at the applicable conversion rate of 7.0234 shares of our class A common stock per $1,000 principal amount (reflecting a conversion price of $142.38 per share (the Adjusted Conversion Price). We have elected to settle our conversion obligation with respect to the 2027 Convertible Notes by delivering solely shares of our class A common stock, together with cash in lieu of any fractional shares. Prior to our delivery of the Notice, we received conversion requests at the original conversion price of $143.25 per share for approximately $1.8 million in principal amount of 2027 Convertible Notes. Subsequent to our delivery of the Notice, we have received conversion requests at the Adjusted Conversion Price. As of February 14, 2025, we have received from holders of the 2027 Convertible Notes conversion requests with respect to $857.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Convertible Notes, which equates to the issuance upon settlement of 6,022,026 shares of our class A common stock in the aggregate. 61 At-the-Market Equity Offerings From time to time, we have entered into sales agreements with agents pursuant to which we could issue and sell shares of our class A common stock through at-the-market equity offering programs. See Note 13, At-the-Market Equity Offerings, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding sales of our class A common stock pursuant to each of the sales agreements that were active during 2024 and 2023. The following table sets forth total shares sold and total net proceeds received (net of sales commissions and expenses) from shares sold under our at-the-market equity offering programs during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands, except number of shares): Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Total shares sold pursuant to at-the-market equity offering programs 52,308,512 50,978,900 Total net proceeds received from shares sold pursuant to at-the-market equity offering programs $ 16,329,857 $ 2,020,089 As of December 31, 2024, approximately $6.775 billion of our class A common stock remained available for issuance and sale pursuant to the October 2024 Sales Agreement. As of February 14, 2025, approximately $4.168 billion of our class A common stock remained available for issuance and sale pursuant to the October 2024 Sales Agreement. The remaining sales agreements have been terminated or substantially depleted prior to December 31, 2024. Unrecognized tax benefits As of December 31, 2024, we had $10.2 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, $2.9 million of which was recorded in Other long-term liabilities and $7.3 million of which was recorded in Deferred tax assets, net. The timing of any payments that could result from these unrecognized tax benefits will depend on a number of factors, and accordingly the amount and period of any future payments cannot be estimated. We do not expect any significant tax payments related to unrecognized tax benefits during 2025. Recent Accounting Standards See Note 3, Recent Accounting Standards, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We are providing supplemental non-GAAP financial measures below which management uses internally to help understand, manage, and evaluate our business performance and to help make operating decisions. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures are also useful to investors and analysts in comparing our performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis. We also believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate comparison of our operating results to those of our competitors. These supplemental financial measures are not measurements of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and, as a result, these supplemental financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures are subject to material limitations as they are not measurements prepared in accordance with GAAP, and are not a substitute for such measurements. For example, we expect that share-based compensation expense, which is excluded from certain of the non-GAAP financial measures below, will continue to be a significant recurring expense over the coming years and is an important part of the compensation provided to certain employees, officers, and directors. Similarly, we expect that interest expense arising from the amortization of debt issuance costs on our long-term debt, which is excluded from certain of the non-GAAP financial measures below, will continue to be a recurring expense over the terms of our long-term debt arrangements. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation and should be read only in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We rely primarily on such Consolidated Financial Statements to understand, manage, and evaluate our business performance and use the non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. Non-GAAP loss from operations Non-GAAP loss from operations excludes share-based compensation expense, which is a significant non-cash expense that we believe is not reflective of our general business performance, and for which the accounting requires management judgment. Consequently, our accounting for share-based compensation expense could vary significantly in comparison to other companies. The following is a 62 reconciliation of our non-GAAP loss from operations to loss from operations, its most directly comparable GAAP measure, (in thousands) for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Reconciliation of non-GAAP loss from operations: Loss from operations $ (1,852,978 ) $ (115,047 ) Share-based compensation expense 77,124 69,571 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (1,775,854 ) $ (45,476 ) Non-GAAP net (loss) income and non-GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share Non-GAAP net (loss) income and non-GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share each exclude the impact of (i) share-based compensation expense, (ii) interest expense arising from the amortization of debt issuance costs on our long-term debt, (iii) gains and losses on extinguishment of debt, and (iv) related income taxes. We believe non-GAAP net (loss) income and non-GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share offer management and investors insight as they exclude significant non-cash expenses, gains and losses on debt extinguishment, and their related income tax effects. The following are reconciliations of our non-GAAP net (loss) income and non-GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share to net (loss) income and diluted (loss) earnings per share, respectively, their most directly comparable GAAP measures (in thousands, except per share data), for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Reconciliation of non-GAAP net (loss) income: Net (loss) income $ (1,166,661 ) $ 429,121 Share-based compensation expense 77,124 69,571 Interest expense arising from amortization of debt issuance costs 15,336 8,808 Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment 22,933 (44,686 ) Income tax effects (1) (243,102 ) (6,062 ) Non-GAAP net (loss) income $ (1,294,370 ) $ 456,752 Reconciliation of non-GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share (2): Diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (6.06 ) $ 2.64 Share-based compensation expense (per diluted share) 0.40 0.42 Interest expense arising from amortization of debt issuance costs (per diluted share) (3) 0.08 0.01 Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment (per diluted share) 0.12 (0.27 ) Income tax effects (per diluted share) (3) (1.26 ) (0.02 ) Non-GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (6.72 ) $ 2.78 (1) Income tax effects reflect the net tax effects of share-based compensation, which includes tax benefits and expenses on exercises of stock options and vesting of share-settled restricted stock units, interest expense for amortization of debt issuance costs, and gains and losses on debt extinguishment. (2) For reconciliation purposes, the non-GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share calculations use the same weighted average shares outstanding as that used in the GAAP diluted earnings (loss) per share calculations for the same period. For example, in periods of GAAP net loss, otherwise dilutive potential shares of common stock from our share-based compensation arrangements and Convertible Notes are excluded from the GAAP diluted loss per share calculation as they would be antidilutive, and therefore are also excluded from the non-GAAP diluted earnings or loss per share calculation. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2023, interest expense from the amortization of issuance costs of the Convertible Notes has been added back to the numerator in the GAAP diluted earnings per share calculation (as disclosed in Note 12, Basic and Diluted (Loss) Earnings per Share, to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and therefore the per diluted share effects of the amortization of issuance costs of the Convertible Notes have been excluded from the Interest expense arising from amortization of debt issuance costs (per diluted share) and Income tax effects (per diluted share) lines in the above reconciliation for the year ending December 31, 2023. 63 Non-GAAP Constant Currency Revenues, Cost of Revenues, and Operating Expenses We present certain of our revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses on a non-GAAP constant currency basis, which excludes certain changes resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These non-GAAP constant currency metrics allow our management and investors to compare operating results to prior years without the effects of certain changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which are not reflective of our general business performance and may vary significantly between periods. The following are reconciliations of our non-GAAP constant currency revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses to their most directly comparable GAAP measures (in thousands) for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, GAAP Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Impact (1) Non-GAAP Constant Currency (2) GAAP GAAP % Change Non-GAAP Constant Currency % Change (3) 2024 2024 2024 2023 2024 2024 Product licenses revenues $ 48,567 $ (504 ) $ 49,071 $ 75,351 -35.5 % -34.9 % Subscription services revenues 106,776 65 106,711 81,179 31.5 % 31.5 % Product support revenues 243,805 (214 ) 244,019 263,888 -7.6 % -7.5 % Other services revenues 64,308 (43 ) 64,351 75,843 -15.2 % -15.2 % Cost of product support revenues 33,289 34 33,255 22,434 48.4 % 48.2 % Cost of other services revenues 50,679 284 50,395 53,805 -5.8 % -6.3 % Sales and marketing expenses 138,081 (273 ) 138,354 149,671 -7.7 % -7.6 % Research and development expenses 118,486 (190 ) 118,676 120,530 -1.7 % -1.5 % General and administrative expenses 140,537 56 140,481 115,312 21.9 % 21.8 % GAAP Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Impact (1) Non-GAAP Constant Currency (2) GAAP GAAP % Change Non-GAAP Constant Currency % Change (3) 2023 2023 2023 2022 2023 2023 Product licenses revenues $ 75,351 $ 300 $ 75,051 $ 86,498 -12.9 % -13.2 % Subscription services revenues 81,179 296 80,883 60,746 33.6 % 33.1 % Product support revenues 263,888 1,514 262,374 266,521 -1.0 % -1.6 % Other services revenues 75,843 186 75,657 85,499 -11.3 % -11.5 % Cost of product support revenues 22,434 46 22,388 21,264 5.5 % 5.3 % Cost of other services revenues 53,805 666 53,139 55,283 -2.7 % -3.9 % Sales and marketing expenses 149,671 694 148,977 146,882 1.9 % 1.4 % Research and development expenses 120,530 (1,163 ) 121,693 127,428 -5.4 % -4.5 % General and administrative expenses 115,312 235 115,077 111,421 3.5 % 3.3 % (1) The Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Impact reflects the estimated impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on international components of our Consolidated Statements of Operations. It shows the increase (decrease) in material international revenues or expenses, as applicable, from the same period in the prior year, based on comparisons to the prior year quarterly average foreign currency exchange rates. The term international refers to operations outside of the United States and Canada only where the functional currency is the local currency (i.e., excluding any location whose economy is considered highly inflationary). (2) The Non-GAAP Constant Currency reflects the current period GAAP amount, less the Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Impact. (3) The Non-GAAP Constant Currency % Change reflects the percentage change between the current period Non-GAAP Constant Currency amount and the GAAP amount for the same period in the prior year. 64