Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Revenue Recognition. 16 Table of Contents If we do not successfully manage the expansion of our international manufacturing operations, our business could be harmed. Since inception we have conducted substantially all of our manufacturing operations near our corporate headquarters in California. We have recently begun significant manufacturing operations in Taiwan and more limited manufacturing operations in the Netherlands. The commencement of new manufacturing operations in new locations, particularly in other jurisdictions, entails additional risks and challenges. If we are unable to successfully ramp up these operations we may incur unanticipated costs, difficulties in making timely delivery of products or suffer other business disruptions which could adversely impact our results of operations. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect us. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products and services. In the event of renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. In addition, the risk remains that there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key outsourcing partners or suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting our treasury operations. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. Our future financial performance will depend on the timely introduction and widespread acceptance of new server solutions and increased functionality of our existing server solutions. Our future financial performance will depend on our ability to meet customer specifications and requirements by enhancing our current server solutions and developing server solutions with new and better functionality. The success of new features and new server solutions depends on several factors, including their timely introduction and market acceptance. We may not be successful in developing enhancements or new server solutions, or in timely bringing them to market. From time to time in the past, customers have deferred purchases of our existing products pending the introduction of new products based upon anticipated new microprocessor releases and we may be subject to such deferrals pending the release of Intels latest new microprocessor. If our new server solutions are not competitive with solutions offered by other vendors, we may not be perceived as a technology leader and could miss market opportunities. If we are unable to enhance the functionality of our server solutions or introduce new server solutions which achieve widespread market acceptance, our reputation will be damaged, the value of our brand will diminish, and our business will suffer. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new features and products could result in increases in our research and development expenses with no assurance of future sales. We may not be able to successfully manage our planned growth and expansion. Over time we expect to continue to make investments to pursue new customers and expand our product offerings to grow our business rapidly. We expect that our annual operating expenses will continue to increase as we invest in sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing and production infrastructure, and strengthen customer service and support resources for our customers. Our failure to expand operational and financial systems timely or efficiently could result in additional operating inefficiencies, which could increase our costs and expenses more than we had planned and prevent us from successfully executing our business plan. We may not be able to offset the costs of operation expansion by leveraging the economies of scale from our growth in negotiations with our suppliers and contract manufacturers. Additionally, if we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. If our business grows, we will have to manage additional product design projects, materials procurement processes, and sales efforts and marketing for an increasing number of SKUs, as well as expand the number and scope of our relationships with suppliers, distributors and end customers. If we fail to manage these additional responsibilities and relationships 17 Table of Contents successfully, we may incur significant costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, in our efforts to be first to market with new products with innovative functionality and features, we may devote significant research and development resources to products and product features for which a market does not develop quickly, or at all. If we are not able to predict market trends accurately, we may not benefit from such research and development activities, and our results of operations may suffer. In the last several years, we have significantly increased our operations in Taiwan and the Netherlands, in part to enable us to manufacture products and provide service closer to our customers locations in Europe and Asia. We expect to continue to increase such operations in future periods. If we fail to effectively manage the transition of manufacturing and service operations to these locations or if we misjudge our ability to utilize this additional capacity, our gross margin and results of operations may suffer. We may encounter difficulties with our ERP Systems. We are in the process of planning for the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, System. Many companies have experienced delays and difficulties with the implementation of new or changed ERP systems that have had a negative effect on their business. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of a revised or new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to develop new products, provide services, fulfill contractual obligations, file reports with the SEC in a timely manner and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment. Any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, we may not be able to increase our market penetration, grow our net sales or improve our gross margins. The market for server solutions is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry in our market are relatively low and we expect increased challenges from existing as well as new competitors. Some of our principal competitors offer server solutions at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures on sales of our server solutions. We expect further downward pricing pressure from our competitors and expect that we will have to price some of our server solutions aggressively to increase our market share with respect to those products, particularly for datacenter customers. If we are unable to maintain the margins on our server solutions, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, if we do not develop new innovative server solutions, or enhance the reliability, performance, efficiency and other features of our existing server solutions, our customers may turn to our competitors for alternatives. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally may also result in reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our principal competitors include global technology companies such as Dell, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM, Cisco and Intel. In addition, we also compete with a number of smaller vendors who also sell application optimized servers and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, such as Quanta Computer Incorporated. ODMs sell server solutions marketed or sold under a third party brand. Many of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as: greater name recognition and deeper market penetration; longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing organizations and research and development teams and budgets; more established relationships with customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers and better channels to reach larger customer bases and larger sales volume allowing for better costs; larger customer service and support organizations with greater geographic scope; a broader and more diversified array of products and services; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Competitors may seek to copy our innovations and use cost advantages from greater size to compete aggressively with us on price. Certain customers are also current or prospective competitors and as a result, assistance that we provide to them as customers may ultimately result in increased competitive pressure against us. Furthermore, because of these advantages, even if our application optimized server solutions are more effective than the products that our competitors offer, potential customers might accept competitive products in lieu of 18 Table of Contents purchasing our products. The challenges we face from larger competitors will become even greater if consolidation or collaboration between or among our competitors occurs in our industry. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, and if we do not compete effectively, our ability to increase our net sales may be impaired. As we increasingly target larger customers, our customer base may become less diversified, our cost of sales may increase, and our sales may be less predictable. We expect that as our business continues to grow, we will be increasingly dependent upon larger sales to maintain our rate of growth and that selling our server solutions to larger customers will create new challenges. However, if certain customers buy our products in greater volumes, and their business becomes a larger percentage of our net sales, we may grow increasingly dependent on those customers to maintain our growth. If our largest customers do not purchase our products at the levels or in the timeframes that we expect, our ability to maintain or grow our net sales will be adversely affected. Additionally, as we and our distribution partners focus increasingly on selling to larger customers and attracting larger orders, we expect greater costs of sales. Our sales cycle may become longer and more expensive, as larger customers typically spend more time negotiating contracts than smaller customers. Larger customers often seek to gain greater pricing concessions, as well as greater levels of support in the implementation and use of our server solutions. These factors can result in lower margins for our products. Increased sales to larger companies may also cause fluctuations in results of operations. A larger customer may seek to fulfill all or substantially all of its requirements in a single order, and not make another purchase for a significant period of time. Accordingly, a significant increase in revenue during the period in which we recognize the revenue from the sale may be followed by a period of time during which the customer purchases none or few of our products. A significant decline in net sales in periods following a significant order could adversely affect our stock price. We must work closely with our suppliers to make timely new product introductions. We rely on our close working relationships with our suppliers, including Intel, AMD and Nvidia, to anticipate and deliver new products on a timely basis when new generation materials and core components are made available. Intel, AMD and Nvidia are the only suppliers of the microprocessors we use in our server systems. If we are not able to maintain our relationships with our suppliers or continue to leverage their research and development capabilities to develop new technologies desired by our customers, our ability to quickly offer advanced technology and product innovations to our customers would be impaired. We have no long term agreements that obligate our suppliers to continue to work with us or to supply us with products. Our suppliers failure to improve the functionality and performance of materials and core components for our products may impair or delay our ability to deliver innovative products to our customers. We need our material and core component suppliers, such as Intel, AMD and Nvidia, to provide us with core components that are innovative, reliable and attractive to our customers. Due to the pace of innovation in our industry, many of our customers may delay or reduce purchase decisions until they believe that they are receiving best of breed products that will not be rendered obsolete by an impending technological development. Accordingly, demand for new server systems that incorporate new products and features is significantly impacted by our suppliers new product introduction schedules and the functionality, performance and reliability of those new products. If our materials and core component suppliers fail to deliver new and improved materials and core components for our products, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand for our products in a timely manner, or at all. If our suppliers components do not function properly, we may incur additional costs and our relationships with our customers may be adversely affected. As our business grows and if the economy does not improve, we expect that we may be exposed to greater customer credit risks. Historically, we have offered limited credit terms to our customers. As our customer base expands, as our orders increase in size, and as we obtain more direct customers, we expect to offer increased credit terms and flexible payment programs to our customers. Doing so may subject us to increased credit risk, higher accounts receivable with longer days outstanding, and increases in charges or reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, if there is no sustained economic recovery, we could be exposed to greater credit risk. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to develop our brand is critical to our ability to grow. We believe that acceptance of our server solutions by an expanding customer base depends in large part on increasing awareness of the Supermicro brand and that brand recognition will be even more important as competition in our market develops. In particular, we expect an increasing proportion of our sales to come from sales of server systems, the sales of which we believe may be particularly impacted by brand strength. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to develop reliable and useful products at competitive prices. To date, we have not devoted significant resources to building our brand, and have limited experience in increasing customer awareness of our brand. Our future brand promotion activities, including any expansion of our cooperative marketing programs with strategic partners, may involve significant expense and may not generate desired levels of increased revenue, and even if such activities generate some increased revenue, such increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in endeavoring to build our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in our attempts to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and as a result our operating results and financial condition could suffer. We principally rely on indirect sales channels for the sale and distribution of our products and any disruption in these channels could adversely affect our sales. Historically, a majority of our revenues have resulted from sales of our products through third party distributors and resellers, which sales accounted for 54.4% , 56.1% and 66.7% of our net sales in fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. We depend on our distributors to assist us in promoting market acceptance of our products and anticipate that a majority of our revenues will continue to result from sales through indirect channels. To maintain and potentially increase our revenue and profitability, we will have to successfully preserve and expand our existing distribution relationships as well as develop new distribution relationships. Our distributors also sell products offered by our competitors and may elect to focus their efforts on these sales. If our competitors offer our distributors more favorable terms or have more products available to meet the needs of their customers, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the distributors, those distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, our distributors order decision-making process is complex and involves several factors, including end customer demand, warehouse allocation and marketing resources, which can make it difficult to accurately predict total sales for the quarter until late in the quarter. We also do not control the pricing or discounts offered by distributors to end customers. To maintain our participation in distributors marketing programs, in the past we have provided cooperative marketing arrangements or made short-term pricing concessions. The discontinuation of cooperative marketing arrangements or pricing concessions could have a negative effect on our business. Our distributors could also modify their business practices, such as payment terms, inventory levels or order patterns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with distributors or expand our distribution channels or we experience unexpected changes in payment terms, inventory levels or other practices by our distributors, our business will suffer. We may be unable to accurately predict future sales through our distributors, which could harm our ability to efficiently manage our resources to match market demand. Since a significant portion of our sales are made through domestic and international distributors, our financial results, quarterly product sales, trends and comparisons are affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of end customers and our distributors, and by the changes in inventory levels of our products held by these distributors. We generally record revenue based upon a sell-in model which means that we generally record revenue upon shipment to our distributors. For more information regarding our revenue recognition policies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. While we attempt to assist our distributors in maintaining targeted stocking level of our products, we may not consistently be accurate or successful. This process involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties including end customer demand. Our distributors also have various rights to return products which could, among other things, result in our having to repurchase inventory which has declined in value or is obsolete. Consequently, actual results could differ from our estimates. Inventory levels of our products held by our distributors may exceed or fall below the levels we consider desirable on a going-forward basis. This could adversely affect our distributors or our ability to efficiently manage or invest in internal resources, such as manufacturing and shipping capacity, to meet the demand for our products. Any failure to adequately expand or retain our sales force will impede our growth. Though we expect to continue to rely primarily on third party distributors to sell our server solutions, we expect that, over time, our direct sales force will grow. Competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical 20 Table of Contents knowledge we need is intense. Our ability to grow our revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, retaining and successfully managing sufficient qualified direct sales personnel. We have traditionally experienced greater turnover in our sales and marketing personnel as compared to other departments. New hires require significant training and may take six months or longer before they reach full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. If we are unable to hire, develop and retain sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, sales of our server solutions will suffer. Our direct sales efforts may create confusion for our end customers and harm our relationships with our distributors and OEMs. Though our direct sales efforts have historically been limited and focused on customers who typically do not buy from distributors or OEMs, we expect our direct sales force to grow as our business grows. As our direct sales force becomes larger, our direct sales efforts may lead to conflicts with our distributors and OEMs, who may view our direct sales efforts as undermining their efforts to sell our products. If a distributor or OEM deems our direct sales efforts to be inappropriate, the distributor or OEM may not effectively market our products, may emphasize alternative products from competitors, or may seek to terminate our business relationship. Disruptions in our distribution channels could cause our revenues to decrease or fail to grow as expected. Our failure to implement an effective direct sales strategy that maintains and expands our relationships with our distributors and OEMs could lead to a decline in sales and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are required to change the timing of our revenue recognition, our net sales and net income could decrease. We currently record revenue based upon a sell-in model with revenues generally recorded upon shipment of products to our distributors. This is in contrast to a sell-through model pursuant to which revenues are generally recognized upon sale of products by distributors to their customers. This requires that we maintain a reserve to cover the estimated costs of any returns or exercises of stock rotation rights, which we estimate primarily based on our historical experience. If facts and circumstances change such that the rate of returns of our products exceeds our historical experience, we may have to increase our reserve, which, in turn, would cause our revenue to decline. Similarly, if facts and circumstances change such that we are no longer able to determine reasonable estimates of our sales returns, we would be required to defer our revenue recognition until the point of sale from the distributors to their customers. Any such change may negatively impact our net sales or net income for particular periods and cause a decline in our stock price. For additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. The average selling prices for our existing server solutions are subject to decline if customers do not continue to purchase our latest generation products, which could harm our results of operations. As with most electronics based products, average selling prices of servers typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products, which utilize the latest technology, and tend to decrease over time as such products become commoditized and are ultimately replaced by even newer generation products. As our business continues to grow, we may increasingly be subject to this industry risk. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any decline in the average selling prices of our server solutions that we may experience in the future. In some instances, our agreements with our distributors limit our ability to reduce prices unless we make such price reductions available to them, or price protect their inventory. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs faster than the rate at which average selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. If our limited number of contract manufacturers or suppliers of materials and core components fail to meet our requirements, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which could decrease our revenues and earnings. We purchase many sophisticated materials and core components from one or a limited number of qualified suppliers and rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to provide value added design, manufacturing, assembly and test services. We generally do not have long-term agreements with these vendors, and instead obtain key materials and services through purchase order arrangements. We have no contractual assurances from any contract manufacturer that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. Consequently, we are vulnerable to any disruptions in supply with respect to the materials and core components provided by limited-source suppliers, and we are at risk of being harmed by discontinuations of design, manufacturing, 21 Table of Contents assembly or testing services from our contract manufacturers. We have occasionally experienced delivery delays from our suppliers and contract manufacturers because of high industry demand or because of inability to meet our quality or delivery requirements. For example, in the past we experienced delays in the delivery of printed circuit board material as a result of the loss of two of our five printer circuit board vendors which resulted in a reduction of net sales for the quarter in which it occurred. More recently, the 2011 floods in Thailand disrupted the global supply chain for hard disk drives manufactured in Thailand. Although reduced, the impact of such disruptions continues. In addition, if our relationships with our suppliers and contract manufactures are negatively impacted by late payments or other issues, we may not receive timely delivery of materials and core components. If we were to lose any of our current supply or contract manufacturing relationships, the process of identifying and qualifying a new supplier or contract manufacturer who will meet our quality and delivery requirements, and who will appropriately safeguard our intellectual property, may require a significant investment of time and resources, adversely affecting our ability to satisfy customer purchase orders and delaying our ability to rapidly introduce new products to market. Similarly, if any of our suppliers were to cancel, materially change contracts or commitments to us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer demand for our products, whether due to shortages or other reasons, our reputation and relationships with customers could be damaged. We could lose orders, be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenues, margins and earnings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our focus on internal development and customizable server solutions could delay our introduction of new products and result in increased costs. Our strategy is to rely to a significant degree on internally developed components, even when third party components may be available. We believe this allows us to develop products with a greater range of features and functionality and allows us to develop solutions that are more customized to customer needs. However, if not properly managed, this reliance on internally developed components may be more costly than use of third party components, thereby making our products less price competitive or reducing our margins. In addition, our reliance on internal development may lead to delays in the introduction of new products and impair our ability to introduce products rapidly to market. We may also experience increases in our inventory costs and obsolete inventory, thereby reducing our margins. Our research and development expenditures, as a percentage of our net sales, are considerably higher than many of our competitors and our earnings will depend upon maintaining revenues and margins that offset these expenditures. Our strategy is to focus on being consistently rapid-to-market with flexible and customizable server systems that take advantage of our own internal development and the latest technologies offered by microprocessor manufacturers and other component vendors. Consistent with this strategy, we spend higher amounts, as a percentage of revenues, on research and development costs than many of our competitors. If we can not sell our products in sufficient volume and with adequate gross margins to compensate for such investment in research and development, our earnings may be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to deliver high quality server solutions could damage our reputation and diminish demand for our products. Our server solutions are critical to our customers business operations. Our customers require our server solutions to perform at a high level, contain valuable features and be extremely reliable. The design of our server solutions is sophisticated and complex, and the process for manufacturing, assembling and testing our server solutions is challenging. Occasionally, our design or manufacturing processes may fail to deliver products of the quality that our customers require. For example, in the past a vendor provided us with a defective capacitor that failed under certain heavy use applications. As a result, our product needed to be repaired. Though the vendor agreed to pay for a large percentage of the costs of the repairs, we incurred costs in connection with the recall and diverted resources from other projects. New flaws or limitations in our server solutions may be detected in the future. Part of our strategy is to bring new products to market quickly, and first-generation products may have a higher likelihood of containing undetected flaws. If our customers discover defects or other performance problems with our products, our customers businesses, and our reputation, may be damaged. Customers may elect to delay or withhold payment for defective or underperforming server solutions, request remedial action, terminate contracts for untimely delivery, or elect not to order additional server solutions, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or subject us to the expense and risk of litigation. We may incur expense in recalling, refurbishing or repairing defective server solutions. If we do not properly address customer concerns about our products, our reputation and relationships with our customers may be harmed. For all of these reasons, customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products could substantially impair our ability 22 Table of Contents to grow our business. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Ablecom Technology Inc., one of our major contract manufacturers, and those conflicts may adversely affect our operations. We use Ablecom, a related party, for contract design and manufacturing coordination support. We work with Ablecom to optimize modular designs for our chassis and certain of other components. Our purchases from Ablecom represented 19.9% , 19.6% and 20.5% of our cost of sales for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. Ablecom is a privately-held Taiwan-based company. Steve Liang, Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer and largest shareholder, is the brother of Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Charles Liang, and his spouse, Chiu-Chu (Sara) Liu Liang, our Vice President of Operations, Treasurer and director, jointly own 10.5% of Ablecoms outstanding common stock, while Mr. Steve Liang and other family members own 35.9% of Ablecoms outstanding common stock. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Liang, as directors, officers and significant stockholders of the Company, have considerable influence over the management of our business relationships. Accordingly, we may be disadvantaged by their economic interests as stockholders of Ablecom and their personal relationship with Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer. We may not negotiate or enforce contractual terms as aggressively with Ablecom as we might with an unrelated party, and the commercial terms of our agreements may be less favorable than we might obtain in negotiations with third parties. If our business dealings with Ablecom are not as favorable to us as arms-length transactions, our results of operations may be harmed. If Steve Liang ceases to have significant influence over Ablecom, or if those of our stockholders who hold shares of Ablecom cease to have a significant amount of the outstanding shares of Ablecom, the terms and conditions of our agreements with Ablecom may not be as favorable as those in our existing contracts. As a result, our costs could increase and adversely affect our margins and results of operations. Our relationship with Ablecom may allow us to benefit from favorable pricing which may result in reported results more favorable than we might report in the absence of our relationship. Although we generally re-negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis, pursuant to our agreements with Ablecom either party may re-negotiate the price of products for each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. Our reliance on Ablecom could be subject to risks associated with our reliance on a limited source of contract manufacturing services and inventory warehousing. We continue to maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia. In order to provide a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom will continue to warehouse for us an increasing number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the U.S. and Europe. We also anticipate that we will continue to lease office space from Ablecom in Taiwan to support the research and development efforts we are undertaking. If we or Ablecom fail to manage the contract manufacturing services and warehouse operations in Asia, we may experience delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Similarly, if Ablecoms facility in Asia is subject to damage, destruction or other disruptions, our inventory may be damaged or destroyed, and we may be unable to find adequate alternative providers of contract manufacturing services in the time that we or our customers require. We could lose orders and be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all. Currently, we purchase contract manufacturing services primarily for our chassis and power supply products from Ablecom. If our commercial relationship with Ablecom were to deteriorate or terminate, establishing direct relationships with those entities supplying Ablecom with key materials for our products or identifying and negotiating agreements with alternative providers of warehouse and contract manufacturing services might take a considerable amount of time and require a significant investment of resources. Pursuant to our agreements with Ablecom and subject to certain exceptions, Ablecom has the exclusive right to be our supplier of the specific products developed under such agreements. As a result, if we are unable to obtain such products from Ablecom on terms acceptable to us, we may need to identify a new supplier, change our design and acquire new tooling, all of which could result in delays in our product availability and increased costs. If we need to use other 23 Table of Contents suppliers, we may not be able to establish business arrangements that are, individually or in the aggregate, as favorable as the terms and conditions we have established with Ablecom. If any of these things should occur, our net sales, margins and earnings could significantly decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our growth into markets outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We market and sell our systems and components both domestically and outside the United States. We intend to expand our international sales efforts, especially into Asia and are expanding our business operations in Europe and Asia, particularly in the Netherlands, Taiwan and China. In particular, we have and continue to make substantial investments for the purchase of land and the development of new facilities in Taiwan to accommodate our expected growth. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; localization of our systems and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; foreign currency fluctuations; limited visibility into sales of our products by our distributors; laws favoring local competitors; weaker legal protections of intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the U.S., such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers councils and labor unions; and changing regional economic and political conditions. These factors could limit our future international sales or otherwise adversely impact our operations or our results of operations. We have in the past entered into plea and settlement agreements with the government relating to violations of export control and related laws; if we fail to comply with laws and regulations restricting dealings with sanctioned countries, we may be subject to future civil or criminal penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or ability to do business outside the United States. In 2006, we entered into certain plea and settlement agreement with government agencies relating to export control and related law violations for activities that occurred in the 2001 to 2003 time frame. We believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable export related laws and regulations. However, if our export compliance program is not effective, or if we are subject to any future claims regarding violation of export control and economic sanctions laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could lead to a material fine or other sanctions, including loss of export privileges, that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. In addition, these plea and settlement agreements and any future violations could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell our products to United States federal, state and local government and related entities. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and technical know-how could impair our brand and our competitiveness. Our ability to prevent competitors from gaining access to our technology is essential to our success. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may lose an important advantage in the markets in which we compete. Trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as our internal confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions are the core of our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation, and we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. Such administrative proceedings and litigation are inherently uncertain and divert resources that could be put towards other business priorities. We may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome and may spend considerable resources in our efforts to defend and protect our intellectual property. 24 Table of Contents Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Resolution of claims that we have violated or may violate the intellectual property rights of others could require us to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors, redesign our products, or pay significant royalties to third parties, and materially harm our business. Our industry is marked by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property or filed claims that our products infringe or violate third parties intellectual property rights. In addition, increasingly non-operating companies are purchasing patents and bringing claims against technology companies. Successful intellectual property claims against us from others could result in significant financial liability or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business as we currently conduct it or as we may later conduct it. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our technology, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights, and to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against, and divert the attention of our technical and management resources. If we lose Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, or any other key employee or are unable to attract additional key employees, we may not be able to implement our business strategy in a timely manner. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. In particular, Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, is critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our culture and our strategic direction. Mr. Liang co-founded our company and has been our Chief Executive Officer since our inception. His experience in running our business and his personal involvement in key relationships with suppliers, customers and strategic partners are extremely valuable to our company. We currently do not have a succession plan for the replacement of Mr. Liang if it were to become necessary. Additionally, we are particularly dependent on the continued service of our existing research and development personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. Our employment arrangements with our executives and employees do not require them to provide services to us for any specific length of time, and they can terminate their employment with us at any time, with or without notice, without penalty. The loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other key members of our team could seriously harm our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract additional highly qualified personnel, including additional engineers and executive staff. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, especially in San Jose, where we are headquartered. We have experienced in the past and may continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, we are currently working to add personnel in our finance, accounting and general administration departments, which have historically had limited budgets and staffing. If we are unable to attract and integrate additional key employees in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, or if we do not maintain competitive compensation policies to retain our employees, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited. Backlog does not provide a substantial portion of our net sales in any quarter. Our net sales are difficult to forecast because we do not have sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly net sales targets at the beginning of a quarter. Rather, a majority of our net sales in any quarter depend upon customer orders that we receive and fulfill in that quarter. Because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future net sales and to a large extent are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust spending in time to compensate for any shortfall in net sales. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations would harm our operating results. 25 Table of Contents Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes other natural catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, including our most significant research and development and manufacturing operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. We have also established significant manufacturing and research and development operations in Taiwan which is also subject to seismic activity risks. We do not currently have a comprehensive disaster recovery program and as a result, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we are in the process of preparing such a program, there is no assurance that it will be effective in the event of such a disaster. We invest in auction rate securities that are subject to market risk and the recent problems in the financial markets could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our assets. As of June 30, 2012 , we held $2.9 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; the auction rate security was rated CAA3 at June 30, 2012 . These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and the stated maturity date for the auction rate student loans is 2040 . Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2012 , we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.1 million , net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to June 30, 2012 , as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to June 30, 2012 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. As a result, our efforts to comply with Section 404 have required the commitment of significant managerial and financial resources. As we are committed to maintaining high standards of public disclosure, our efforts to comply with Section 404 are ongoing, and we are continuously in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting, which will result in continued commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Although we strive to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to prevent and detect material misstatements in our annual and quarterly financial statements and prevent fraud, we cannot assure that such efforts will be effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our operating results, financial position and stock price could be adversely affected. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and toxic materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes, we could be subject to fines, costs, or civil or criminal sanctions, face third party property damage or personal injury claims or be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, which could be material, or experience disruptions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, environmental laws could become more stringent over time imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. 26 Table of Contents We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances applicable to specified electronic products placed on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the RoHS Directive). We are also subject to laws and regulations such as Californias Proposition 65 which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the State of California to be dangerous, such as lead. We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, and could require that we change the design and/or manufacturing of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, and you might not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased the shares. The trading prices of technology company securities historically have been highly volatile and the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors, in addition to those outlined elsewhere in this filing, that may affect the trading price of our common stock include: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; the loss of a key customer; the loss of key personnel; technological advancements rendering our products less valuable; lawsuits filed against us; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other companies that sell similar products; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. Attempts by existing stockholders to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline significantly. All of our shares are eligible for sale in the public market, including 11.4 million shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, which are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, 11.3 million shares subject to outstanding options and reserved for future issuance under our stock option plans are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. If an industry analyst decides not to cover our company, or if an industry analyst decides to cease covering our company at some point in the future, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. If an industry analyst downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of August 28, 2012 , our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially owned 46.0% of our common stock, net of treasury stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting 27 Table of Contents together, will have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporations voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those stockholders desire. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Our principal executive offices, research and development center and production operations are located in San Jose, California where we own approximately 552,000 square feet of office and manufacturing space subject to existing mortgage loan and line of credit with $12.1 million remaining outstanding as of June 30, 2012 . We lease approximately 247,000 square feet of warehouse in Fremont, California under a lease that expires in 2015 and lease approximately 25,000 square feet of office space in San Jose, California under a lease that expires in 2016 . Our European headquarters for manufacturing and service operations is located in Denbosch, the Netherlands where we lease approximately 58,000 square feet of office space under four leases, which expire in 2016 . In Asia, our manufacturing facilities are located in Taoyuan County, Taiwan where we own approximately 211,000 square feet of office and manufacturing space on 7.0 acres of land for which the purchase of 2.2 acres of land was finalized and closed in December 2011. These manufacturing facilities are subject to existing line of credit with $15.9 million remaining outstanding as of June 30, 2012 . Our research and development center and service operations in Asia are located in an approximately 73,000 square feet facility in Taipei, Taiwan under seven leases that expire at various dates through 2014 . In addition, we lease approximately 3,000 square feet of office space in Shanghai and Beijing, China under two 28 Table of Contents leases that expire at various dates through 2013 for sales and service operations. We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we have been involved in various legal proceedings arising from the normal course of business activities. We defend ourselves vigorously against any such claims. In management's opinion, the resolution of any pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock has been traded on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol SMCI since our initial public offering on March 28, 2007. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported by The Nasdaq Global Market. High Low Fiscal Year 2011: First Quarter $ 15.48 $ 8.63 Second Quarter $ 11.98 $ 10.18 Third Quarter $ 16.04 $ 11.65 Fourth Quarter $ 18.99 $ 15.30 High Low Fiscal Year 2012: First Quarter $ 16.35 $ 12.36 Second Quarter $ 16.52 $ 11.59 Third Quarter $ 17.71 $ 15.73 Fourth Quarter $ 18.31 $ 14.67 Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Holders The last reported sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market on August 28, 2012 was $12.56 per share. There were 38 registered stockholders of record of our common stock on August 28, 2012 . Because most of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders. Equity Compensation Plan Please see Part III, Item 12 of this report for disclosure relating to our equity compensation plans. Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock between March 29, 2007 (the date of our initial public offering) and June 30, 2012 with the cumulative return of the Nasdaq Computer Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index, which both include our common stock, for the comparable period. The graph reflects an investment of $100 in our common stock, the Nasdaq Computer Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index, on March 29, 2007, and a reinvestment of dividends, if any. The stockholder return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns. 30 Table of Contents Comparison of March 29, 2007 to June 30, 2012 Cumulative Total Return Among Super Micro Computer, Nasdaq Computer Index and Nasdaq Composite 3/29/2007 6/29/2007 6/30/2008 6/30/2009 6/30/2010 6/30/2011 6/30/2012 Super Micro Computer, Inc. 100.00 113.11 83.39 86.55 152.54 181.11 179.21 Nasdaq Composite Index 100.00 107.02 94.26 75.44 86.71 114.02 120.66 Nasdaq Computer Index 100.00 110.22 102.75 85.05 101.73 133.40 151.11 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data is qualified by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part II, Item 8 and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. 31 Table of Contents Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Net sales $ 1,013,874 $ 942,582 $ 721,438 $ 505,609 $ 540,503 Cost of sales 848,457 791,478 606,446 416,899 436,950 Gross profit 165,417 151,104 114,992 88,710 103,553 Operating expenses: Research and development 64,223 48,108 37,382 34,514 30,537 Sales and marketing 33,308 26,859 20,458 17,119 18,191 General and administrative 21,872 17,444 15,318 13,824 14,554 Provision for litigation loss 1,089 Total operating expenses 119,403 92,411 74,247 65,457 63,282 Income from operations 46,014 58,693 40,745 23,253 40,271 Interest and other income, net 54 66 103 476 1,558 Interest expense (717 ) (686 ) (383 ) (930 ) (1,025 ) Income before income tax provision 45,351 58,073 40,465 22,799 40,804 Income tax provision 15,498 17,860 13,550 6,692 15,385 Net income $ 29,853 $ 40,213 $ 26,915 $ 16,107 $ 25,419 Net income per share Basic $ 0.72 $ 1.04 $ 0.73 $ 0.46 $ 0.81 Diluted $ 0.67 $ 0.93 $ 0.65 $ 0.41 $ 0.65 Shares used in per share calculation Basic 40,890 38,132 35,883 34,218 31,355 Diluted 44,152 42,396 40,735 38,596 38,843 Stock-based compensation: Cost of sales $ 783 $ 812 $ 573 $ 578 $ 523 Research and development 5,542 4,077 3,106 2,608 1,817 Sales and marketing 1,469 1,077 880 826 641 General and administrative 2,458 2,090 1,898 1,649 1,187 Total stock-based compensation $ 10,252 $ 8,056 $ 6,457 $ 5,661 $ 4,168 __________________________ As of June 30, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 80,826 $ 69,943 $ 72,644 $ 70,295 $ 51,481 Working capital 261,404 228,975 158,982 130,987 102,392 Total assets 589,103 464,620 370,762 283,135 264,385 Long-term obligations, net of current portion(1) 30,244 36,716 8,186 15,482 15,023 Total stockholders equity 338,351 287,257 224,701 178,622 151,871 __________________________ (1) $ 9.3 million , $ 27.6 million , $ 9.7 million and $ 10.0 million of our long-term obligations, net of current portion consisted of building loans at June 30, 2012 , 2011 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. $18.6 million of our short-term debt related to building loan at June 30, 2010 was refinanced to long-term debt at June 30, 2011. 32 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview We are a global leader in high-performance, high-efficiency server technology and green computing innovation. We develop and provide end-to-end green computing solutions for Enterprise IT, Datacenter, Cloud Computing, HPC and Embedded Systems worldwide. Our solutions include a range of complete rackmount, workstation, blade, storage, GPU systems, networking devises and full rack solutions, as well as subsystems and accessories which can be used by distributors, OEMs and end customers to assemble server systems. To date, we have generated the majority of our net sales from subsystems. In recent years our growth in net sales has been driven by the growth in the market for application optimized server systems. For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , net sales of optimized servers were $447.0 million , $351.3 million and $245.2 million , respectively, and net sales of subsystems and accessories were $566.9 million , $591.3 million and $476.2 million , respectively. The increase in our net sales in fiscal year 2012 compared with fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to increased sales in server solutions including complete rack and rackmount and storage solutions. However, our net sales in fiscal year 2012 was adversely impacted by the disruption in the hard disk drive supply chain as a result of the flooding in Thailand. We commenced operations in 1993 and have been profitable every year since inception. For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , our net sales were $1,013.9 million , $942.6 million and $721.4 million , respectively, and our net income was $29.9 million , $40.2 million and $26.9 million , respectively. Our decrease in profitability in fiscal year 2012 was primarily attributable to the higher operating expenses in research and development costs incurred for new products relating to the Sandy Bridge processors launched by Intel in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, costs incurred for FatTwin launch and costs related to expansion of our operations overseas and in the United States. The decrease in profitability was offset in part by an increase in our gross profit resulting primarily from an increase in our net sales of server solutions which typically have higher margins. We sell our server systems and subsystems and accessories primarily through distributors and to a lesser extent to OEMs as well as through our direct sales force. For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , we derived 54.4% , 56.1% and 66.7% , respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors, and we derived 45.6% , 43.9% and 33.3% , respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. None of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , we derived 58.2% , 58.3% and 60.1% , respectively, of our net sales from customers in the United States. For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , we derived 41.8% , 41.7% and 39.9% , respectively, of our net sales from customers outside the United States. We perform the majority of our research and development efforts in-house. For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , research and development expenses represented 6.3% , 5.1% and 5.2% of our net sales, respectively. We use several suppliers and contract manufacturers to design and manufacture components in accordance with our specifications, with most final assembly and testing performed at our manufacturing facility in San Jose, California. During fiscal year 2012, we continued to invest in expanding our operations both in San Jose, California and our subsidiaries in the Netherlands and Taiwan in order to support our growth. We have increased manufacturing and service operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan to support our European and Asian customers and we have expanded our overseas manufacturing capacity in fiscal year 2012. One of our key suppliers is Ablecom, a related party, which supplies us with contract design and manufacturing support. For fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , our purchases from Ablecom represented 19.9% , 19.6% and 20.5% of our cost of sales, respectively. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. We continue to maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia in an effort to reduce our product costs and do not have any current plans to reduce our reliance on Ablecom product purchases. In addition to providing a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom continues to warehouse for us a number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the United States and Europe. We typically negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis; however, either party may re-negotiate the price of products with each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price higher or lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in our future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is less than or in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. 33 Table of Contents In order to continue to increase our net sales and profits, we believe that we must continue to develop flexible and customizable server solutions and be among the first to market with new features and products. We measure our financial success based on various indicators, including growth in net sales, gross profit as a percentage of net sales, operating income as a percentage of net sales, levels of inventory, and days sales outstanding, or DSOs. In connection with these efforts, we monitor daily and weekly sales and shipment reports. Among the key non-financial indicators of our success is our ability to rapidly introduce new products and deliver the latest application optimized server solutions. In this regard, we work closely with microprocessor and other component vendors to take advantage of new technologies as they are introduced. Historically, our ability to introduce new products rapidly has allowed us to benefit from the introduction of new microprocessors and as a result we monitor the introduction cycles of Intel, AMD and Nvidia carefully. This also impacts our research and development expenditures. For example, in fiscal year 2012 and in prior years, our results have been adversely impacted by customer order delays in anticipation of the introduction of the new lines of microprocessors and research and development expenditures necessary for us to prepare for the introduction. Other Financial Highlights The following is a summary of other financial highlights of fiscal year 2012 : Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $16.5 million , $8.5 million and $(2.2) million in fiscal year 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $83.8 million at the end of fiscal year 2012 , compare with $75.2 million at the end of fiscal year 2011 . The increase in our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments at the end of fiscal year 2012 was primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating activities and financing activities, offset in part by an increase in cash used in investing activities. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of fiscal year 2012 was 33 days, compared with 30 days at the end of fiscal year 2011 . Our inventory balance was $276.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2012 , compared with $192.7 million at the end of fiscal year 2011 . Days sales of inventory (DSI) at the end of fiscal year 2012 was 100 days, compared with 75 days at the end of fiscal year 2011 . The increase in our inventory balance at the end of fiscal year 2012 was in part due to growth in net sales in fiscal year 2012, our increase in inventory relating to the Sandy Bridge processors launched by Intel in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 and higher purchases of hard disk drives to address the disruption in the supply chain as a result of the flooding in Thailand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were $355.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2012 and $91.8 million at the end of fiscal year 2011 . The increase in our purchase commitments at the end of fiscal year 2012 was primarily attributable to our entry into purchase agreements with selected suppliers of hard disk drives in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 in order to ensure continuity of supply for these components following disruption of the hard disk drive supply chain as a result of severe flooding in Thailand during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. During the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2012, we prioritized the use of our hard disk drives inventory to our complete integrated-high-end server solutions, which increased profitability in our sales of server solutions. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, the profitability of our sales of subsystems and accessories decreased primarily due to the challenging component pricing for hard disk drive and memory. We expect the impact of the hard disk drive situation to improve as we move through fiscal year 2013 and 2014. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations" for more information about our purchase commitments. In December 2011, we finalized and closed the purchase price and the title on land in Taiwan, consisting of approximately 2.2 acres. We have also completed the construction of facilities in Taiwan and the headquarters expansion in San Jose, California in December 2011. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal year 2012 , for example, refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 . 34 Table of Contents Revenues and Expenses Net sales. Net sales consist of sales of our server solutions, including server systems, subsystems and accessories. The main factors which impact our net sales are unit volumes shipped and average selling prices. The prices for server systems range widely depending upon the configuration, and the prices for our subsystems and accessories vary based on the type. As with most electronics-based products, average selling prices typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products which utilize the latest technology and tend to decrease over time as such products mature in the market and are replaced by next generation products. Cost of sales. Cost of sales primarily consists of the costs to manufacture our products, including the costs of materials, contract manufacturing, shipping, personnel and related expenses, equipment and facility expenses, warranty costs and inventory excess and obsolete provisions. The primary factors that impact our cost of sales are the mix of products sold and cost of materials, which include raw material costs, shipping costs and salary and benefits related to production. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales may increase over time if decreases in average selling prices are not offset by corresponding decreases in our costs. Our cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, is generally lower on server systems than on subsystems and accessories. Because we do not have long-term fixed supply agreements, our cost of sales is subject to change based on market conditions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist of the personnel and related expenses of our research and development teams, and materials and supplies, consulting services, third party testing services and equipment and facility expenses related to our research and development activities. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We occasionally receive non-recurring engineering, or NRE funding from certain suppliers and customers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain research and development costs that we incur as part of the joint development of our products and those of our suppliers and customers. These amounts offset a portion of the related research and development expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and commissions for our sales and marketing personnel, costs for tradeshows, independent sales representative fees and marketing programs. From time to time, we receive cooperative marketing funding from certain suppliers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain marketing costs that we incur as part of the joint promotion of our products and those of our suppliers. These amounts offset a portion of the related expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported sales and marketing expenses. Similarly, we from time to time offer our distributors cooperative marketing funding which has the effect of increasing our expenses. The timing, magnitude and estimated usage of our programs and those of our suppliers can result in significant variations in reported sales and marketing expenses from period to period. Spending on cooperative marketing, either by us or our suppliers, typically increases in connection with significant product releases by us or our suppliers. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of general corporate costs, including personnel expenses, financial reporting, corporate governance and compliance and outside legal, audit and tax fees. Provision for litigation loss. Loss from litigation relates to an action filed in France by Digitechnic, S.A., a former customer. The Company entered into a settlement agreement with Digitechnic, pursuant to which the Company made a payment of $1.1 million in December 2009. Interest and other income, net . Interest and other income, net represents the net of our interest income on investments or interest expense on the building loans or letters of credit for our owned facilities offset by interest earned on our cash balances. Income tax provision. Our income tax provision is based on our taxable income generated in the jurisdictions in which we operate, currently primarily the United States and the Netherlands and to a lesser extent, Taiwan. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to research and development tax credits and the domestic production activities deduction which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes and stock option expenses. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The 35 Table of Contents preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts and sales returns, cooperative marketing accruals, investment valuations, inventory valuations, income taxes, warranty obligations and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments we make about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Because these estimates can vary depending on the situation, actual results may differ from the estimates. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies as they require our more significant judgments in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue recognition. We recognize revenue from sales of products, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, shipment has occurred and title has transferred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured, and all significant obligations have been met. Generally this occurs at the time of shipment when risk of loss and title has passed to the customer. Our standard arrangement with our customers includes a signed purchase order or contract, 30 to 60 days payment terms, Ex-works terms, except for a few customers who have free-on-board destination terms or customer acceptance provisions, for which revenue is recognized when the products arrive or are accepted at the destination. We generally do not provide for non-warranty rights of return except for products which have Out-of-box failure, where customers could return these products for credit within 30 days of receiving the items. Certain distributors and OEMs are also permitted to return products in unopened boxes, limited to purchases over a specified period of time, generally within 60 to 90 days of the purchase, or to products in the distributors or OEMs inventory at certain times (such as the termination of the agreement or product obsolescence). To estimate reserves for future sales returns, we regularly review our history of actual returns for each major product line. We also communicate regularly with our distributors to gather information about end customer satisfaction, and to determine the volume of inventory in the channel. Reserves for future returns are adjusted as necessary, based on returns experience, returns expectations and communication with our distributors. In addition, certain customers have acceptance provisions and revenue is deferred until the customers provide the necessary acceptance. At June 30, 2012 and 2011 , we had deferred revenue of $0.9 million and $2.4 million and related deferred product costs of $0.8 million and $1.9 million , respectively, related to shipments to customers pending acceptances. Probability of collection is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis. Customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ability to pay. If it is determined from the outset of an arrangement that collection is not probable based upon the review process, the customers are required to pay cash in advance of shipment. We also make estimates of the uncollectibility of accounts receivables, analyzing accounts receivable and historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer-credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in customer payment terms to evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of our reported operating expenses could result. We provide for price protection to certain distributors. We assess the market competition and product technology obsolescence, and make price adjustments based on our judgment. Upon each announcement of price reductions, the accrual for price protection is calculated based on our distributors inventory on hand. Such reserves are recorded as a reduction to revenue at the time we reduce the product prices. We have an immaterial amount of service revenue relating to non-warranty repairs, which is recognized upon shipment of the repaired units to customers. Service revenue has been less than 10% of net sales for all periods presented and is not separately disclosed. Product warranties. We offer product warranties ranging from 15 to 39 months against any defective product. We accrue for estimated returns of defective products at the time revenue is recognized, based on historical warranty experience and recent trends. We monitor warranty obligations and may make revisions to our warranty reserve if actual costs of product repair and replacement are significantly higher or lower than estimated. Accruals for anticipated future warranty costs are charged to cost of sales and included in accrued liabilities. The liability for product warranties was $5.5 million as of June 30, 2012 , compared with $4.7 million as of June 30, 2011 . The provision for warranty reserve was $12.2 million , $9.6 million and $8.5 million in fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Our estimates and assumptions used have been historically close to actual. The change in estimated liability for pre-existing warranties was $0.7 million , ($0.9) million and ($0.9) million in fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. As a result of our increase in warranty claims and cost of servicing warranty claims in fiscal year 2012 , the provision for warranty reserve increased $2.6 million compared to fiscal year 2011 . As we experienced an increase in net sales in fiscal year 2011 and 2010, the provision for warranty reserve increased $1.1 million and$1.8 million, respectively, compared to fiscal year 2010 and 2009. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate an increase 36 Table of Contents or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, we intend to adjust our estimates appropriately. Inventory valuation. Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We evaluate inventory on a quarterly basis for lower of cost or market and excess and obsolescence and, as necessary, write down the valuation of units to lower of cost or market or for excess and obsolescence based upon the number of units that are unlikely to be sold based upon estimated demand for the following twelve months. This evaluation takes into account matters including expected demand, anticipated sales price, product obsolescence and other factors. If actual future demand for our products is less than currently forecasted, additional inventory adjustments may be required. Once a reserve is established, it is maintained until the product to which it relates is sold or scrapped. If a unit that has been written down is subsequently sold, the cost associated with the revenue from this unit is reduced to the extent of the write down, resulting in an increase in gross profit. We monitor the extent to which previously written down inventory is sold at amounts greater or less than carrying value, and based on this analysis, adjust our estimate for determining future write downs. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate a change in recovery rate compared with our historical experience, our gross margin would be affected. Our provision for inventory was $8.6 million , $3.4 million and $2.6 million in fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Accounting for income taxes. We account for income taxes under an asset and liability approach. Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for income tax reporting purposes, net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax credits measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are provided when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We recognize the tax liability for uncertain income tax positions on the income tax return based on the two-step process. The first step is to determine whether it is more likely than not that each income tax position would be sustained upon audit. The second step is to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority. Estimating these amounts requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on the consideration of several factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in applicable tax law, settlement of issues under audit and new exposures. If we later determine that our exposure is lower or that the liability is not sufficient to cover our revised expectations, we adjust the liability and effect a related change in our tax provision during the period in which we make such determination. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact on our consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation. We measure and recognize the compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors including employee stock options and restricted stock awards based on estimated fair values. We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based awards on the date of grant. The value of awards that are ultimately expected to vest is recognized as an expense over the requisite service periods. Compensation expense for options and restricted stock awards granted to employees was $10.3 million , $8.1 million and $6.5 million for the years ended June 30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. As of June 30, 2012 , the total unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to unvested stock options granted since July 1, 2006 to employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors, was $23.0 million , which is expected to be recognized as an expense over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.45 years. See Note 10 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We estimated the fair value of stock options granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and a single option award approach. This model requires us to make estimates and assumptions with respect to the expected term of the option, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock and the expected forfeiture rate. The fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding and was determined based on an analysis of the relevant peer companies post-vest termination rates and exercise behavior for the stock options granted prior to June 30, 2011. For stock options and restricted stock awards granted after June 30, 2011, expected term is based on a combination of our peer group and our historical experience. The expected volatility is based on a combination of the implied and historical volatility of our relevant peer group for the stock options granted prior to September 30, 2009. For stock options and restricted stock awards granted after September 30, 2009, expected volatility is based solely on our historical volatility. In addition, forfeitures of share-based awards are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option 37 Table of Contents forfeitures and record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. Variable interest entities. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009 and interim periods therein and thereafter. The new guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. We adopted this standard and have analyzed our relationship with Ablecom and its subsidiaries (collectively Ablecom). We have concluded that Ablecom is a variable interest entity in accordance with applicable accounting standards and guidance; however, we are not the primary beneficiary of Ablecom and therefore, we do not consolidate Ablecom. In performing our analysis, we considered our explicit arrangements with Ablecom including the supplier and distributor arrangements. Also, as a result of the substantial related party relationship between the two companies, we considered whether any implicit arrangements exist that would cause us to protect those related parties interests in Ablecom from suffering losses. We determined that no implicit arrangements exist with Ablecom or its shareholders. Such an arrangement would be inconsistent with the fiduciary duty that we have towards our stockholders who do not own shares in Ablecom. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our financial results, as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Years Ended June 30, 2012 2011 2010 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 83.7 84.0 84.1 Gross profit 16.3 16.0 15.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 6.3 5.1 5.2 Sales and marketing 3.3 2.8 2.8 General and administrative 2.2 1.9 2.1 Provision for litigation loss 0.2 Total operating expenses 11.8 9.8 10.3 Income from operations 4.5 6.2 5.6 Interest and other income, net Interest expense Income before income tax provision 4.5 6.2 5.6 Income tax provision 1.6 1.9 1.9 Net income 2.9 % 4.3 % 3.7 % Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 Net sales. Net sales increased by $ 71.3 million , or 7.6% , to $1,013.9 million from $942.6 million , for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. This increase was due primarily to an increase in the average selling price of our server systems and an increase in unit volumes of our server systems. For fiscal year 2012 , the number of server system units sold increased 8.1% to 239,000 compared to 221,000 for fiscal year 2011 . The average selling price of server system units increased 18.8% to $1,900 in fiscal year 2012 compared to $1,600 in fiscal year 2011 . The average selling prices of our server systems increased primarily due to an increase in average selling prices of hard disk drives caused by the flooding in Thailand, higher average selling prices of complete integrated-high-end servers solutions to OEM and end customers, rack solutions and SuperBlades offset in part by declines in average selling prices of 6000 Series configuration of servers. Sales of server systems increased by $95.7 million or 27.2% from fiscal year 2011 to fiscal year 2012 , primarily due to higher sales of complete integrated-high-end servers solutions to OEM and end customers and higher sales of rack, storage and SuperBlades solutions. Sales of server systems represented 44.1% of our net sales for fiscal year 2012 compared to 37.3% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 . For fiscal year 2012 , the number of subsystems and accessories units sold decreased 5.4% to 4.3 million compared to 4.6 million for fiscal year 2011 . Sales of subsystems and accessories decreased by $24.4 million or 4.1% from fiscal year 2011 38 Table of Contents to fiscal year 2012 , primarily related to lower sales of subsystems and accessories, such as memory and serverboards as a result of the flooding in Thailand and the effects on hard disk drive supply chain which prevented our system integrators from purchasing memory and serverboards and completing the final assembly of server solutions. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 55.9% of our net sales for fiscal year 2012 as compared to 62.7% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 . For fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , we derived 54.4% and 56.1% , respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived 45.6% and 43.9% , respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For fiscal year 2012 , customers in the United States, Europe and Asia accounted for 58.2% , 21.8% and 17.4% , of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 58.3% , 21.4% and 16.9% , respectively, for fiscal year 2011 . Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $57.0 million , or 7.2% , to $848.5 million from $791.5 million , for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 83.7% and 84.0% for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily attributable to the increase in net sales, an increase of $2.6 million in provision for warranty reserve, an increase of $5.2 million in provision for inventory reserve and an increase of $1.5 million in freight-in charges. The lower cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in net sales of server solutions which typically have higher margins. In fiscal year 2012 , we recorded a $12.2 million expense, or 1.2% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $9.6 million , or 1.0% of net sales, in fiscal year 2011 . The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher warranty claims and higher cost of servicing warranty claims in fiscal year 2012 . If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In fiscal year 2012 , we recorded a $8.6 million expense, or 0.8% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $3.4 million , or 0.4% of net sales, in fiscal year 2011 . The increase in the inventory provision was primarily for older products as a result of product transitions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $16.1 million , or 33.5% , to $64.2 million from $48.1 million , for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Research and development expenses were 6.3% and 5.1% of net sales for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $11.9 million in compensation and benefits including higher stock-based compensation expense, resulting from growth in research and development personnel related to expanded product development initiatives in the United States and in Taiwan, an increase of $1.6 million in development costs associated with the Sandy Bridge launched in March 2012 and a decrease of $0.5 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. The increase as a percentage of sales was due to increased expenses relating to new product introductions, particularly related to the introduction of Intel's new Sandy Bridge processor and net sales which were lower than we had anticipated. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $5.5 million and $4.1 million for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $6.4 million , or 24.0% , to $33.3 million from $26.9 million , for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 3.3% and 2.8% of net sales for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $4.7 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in sales and marketing personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense, an increase in advertising, promotional and trade show expenses of $0.7 million and an increase of $0.7 million in freight out expenses to customers. The increase as a percentage of sales was due to increased expenses in anticipation of higher net sales which were lower than we had anticipated. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million and $1.1 million for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $4.4 million , or 25.4% , to $21.9 million from $17.4 million , for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. General and administrative expenses were 2.2% and 1.9% of net sales for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $1.9 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense, in part to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in Taiwan, an increase of $1.3 million in foreign currency transaction loss and an increase of $0.9 million in tax expenses. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $2.5 million and $2.1 million for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. 39 Table of Contents Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense changed by $43,000 , to $0.7 million of expense from $0.6 million of expense, for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively, which included $0.7 million of interest expense for both fiscal year 2012 and 2011 . Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes decreased by $2.4 million , or 13.2% , to $15.5 million from $17.9 million , for the fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The effective tax rate was 34.2% and 30.8% for fiscal year 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The effective tax rate was higher for fiscal year 2012 primarily due to the expiration of Federal research and development tax credits as of December 31, 2011 and an increase in stock option expenses which were partially offset by a decrease of state taxes due to election of the California single sales factor apportionment and the domestic production activity deduction. Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 Net sales. Net sales increased by $221.1 million, or 30.7%, to $942.6 million from $721.4 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase was due primarily to an increase in unit volumes of server systems and subsystems and accessories and an increase in average selling prices of server systems. For fiscal year 2011, the number of units sold increased 40.5% to 4.8 million compared to 3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. For fiscal year 2011, the number of server system units sold increased 25.6% to 221,000 compared to 176,000 for fiscal year 2010. The average selling price of server system units increased 14.3% to $1,600 in fiscal year 2011 compared to $1,400 in fiscal year 2010. The average selling prices of our server systems increased principally due to an increase in our sales of complete integrated, high-end server solutions to OEM and end customers and higher average selling prices of 1000, 6000 and 7000 Series configuration of servers which incorporated additional features such as higher density, memory and hard disk drive capacity and higher average selling prices of SuperBlades offset in part by declines in average selling prices of more mature products. Sales of server systems increased by $106.1 million or 43.3% from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to higher sales of OEM and end customers, higher sales of SuperBaldes, higher sales of 1000, 2000, 6000 and 7000 Series configuration of servers including storage and GPU solutions offset in part by lower sales of more mature products. Sales of server systems represented 37.3% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 compared to 34.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010. For fiscal year 2011, the number of subsystems and accessories units sold increased 41.3% to 4.6 million compared to 3.3 million for fiscal year 2010. Sales of subsystems and accessories increased by $115.1 million or 24.2% from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to higher sales of bundled server solutions to OEM and system integrators who increasingly are purchasing additional accessories from us and completing the final assembly themselves. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 62.7% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 as compared to 66.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010. For fiscal year 2011 and 2010, we derived 56.1% and 66.7%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived 43.9% and 33.3%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For fiscal year 2011, customers in the United States, Europe and Asia accounted for 58.3%, 21.4% and 16.9%, of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 60.1%, 21.7% and 14.8%, respectively, for fiscal year 2010. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $185.0 million, or 30.5%, to $791.5 million from $606.4 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 84.0% and 84.1% for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily attributable to the increase in net sales, an increase of $7.3 million in freight-in charges, an increase of $1.1 million in provision for warranty reserve and an increase of $0.7 million in provision for inventory reserve. The lower cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in sales of server systems and an increase in sales to OEM and end customers. In fiscal year 2011, we recorded a $9.6 million expense, or 1.0% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $8.5 million, or 1.2% of net sales, in fiscal year 2010. The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher net sales in fiscal year 2011. If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In fiscal year 2011, we recorded a $3.4 million expense, or 0.4% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $2.6 million, or 0.4% of net sales, in fiscal year 2010. The increase in the inventory provision was primarily for older products as a result of product transitions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $10.7 million, or 28.7%, to $48.1 million from $37.4 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Research and development expenses were 5.1% and 5.2% of net sales for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an 40 Table of Contents increase of $8.5 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in research and development personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense related to expanded product development initiatives in the United States and in Taiwan, an increase of $3.0 million in development costs associated with new products offset in part by an increase of $0.8 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $4.1 million and $3.1 million for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $6.4 million, or 31.3%, to $26.9 million from $20.5 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 2.8% of net sales for both fiscal year 2011 and 2010. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $4.3 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in sales and marketing personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense, an increase of $1.1 million in advertising and promotion expense, an increase of $0.6 million in cooperative marketing funding to customers and an increase of $0.4 million in trade show and travel expenses. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million and $0.9 million for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $2.1 million, or 13.9%, to $17.4 million from $15.3 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. General and administrative expenses were 1.9% and 2.1% of net sales for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $2.4 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense, in part to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in Taiwan, an increase of $0.6 million in customs fee accrual related to prior periods, an increase of $0.4 million in legal fees offset in part by an increase of $1.0 million in rental income and an increase of $0.6 million in foreign currency transaction gain. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $2.1 million and $1.9 million for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Provision for litigation loss. There was no loss from litigation expense for fiscal year 2011. For fiscal year 2010, there was a $1.1 million expense due to a settlement payment related to the Digitechnic lawsuit. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense changed by $0.3 million, to $0.6 million of expense from $0.3 million of expense, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively, which included $0.7 million and $0.4 million of interest expense for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The net change was primarily due to higher interest expense as our average debt outstanding for fiscal year 2011 was $21.5 million versus $2.5 million in fiscal year 2010. Interest rates were not significantly different in fiscal year 2011 compared to 2010. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased by $4.3 million, or 31.8%, to $17.9 million from $13.6 million, for the fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective tax rate was 30.8% and 33.5% for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective tax rate was lower for fiscal year 2011 primarily due to the reinstatement of Federal research and development tax credits and domestic production activities deduction which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes and stock option expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have financed our growth primarily with funds generated from operations and from the proceeds of our initial public offering. In addition, we have, from time to time, utilized borrowing facilities, particularly in relation to the financing of real property acquisitions. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were $80.9 million and $70.0 million as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Our cash in foreign locations of $6.5 million and $7.6 million at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. It is management's intention to reinvest the undistributed foreign earnings indefinitely in foreign operations. Operating Activities. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $16.5 million , $8.5 million and $(2.2) million for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Net cash provided by our operating activities for fiscal year 2012 was primarily due to our net income of $29.9 41 Table of Contents million , an increase in accounts payable of $61.3 million , stock-based compensation expense of $10.3 million , an increase in net income taxes payable of $9.0 million , provision for inventory of $8.6 million , depreciation expense of $7.1 million , and an increase in accrued liabilities of $5.0 million , which were partially offset by an increase in inventory of $92.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $17.2 million . Net cash provided by our operating activities for fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to our net income of $40.2 million, an increase in accounts payable of $16.9 million, stock-based compensation expense of $8.1 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $5.7 million, depreciation expense of $5.5 million, an increase in accrued liabilities of $5.3 million, which were partially offset by an increase in inventory of $60.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $12.5 million. Net cash used in our operating activities for fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to our net income of $26.9 million, an increase in accounts payable of $21.8 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $9.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $6.5 million and an increase in accrued liabilities of $5.5 million, which were partially offset by an increase in inventory of $48.2 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $28.0 million. The increase for fiscal year 2012 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 to customers with net payment terms. The increase for fiscal year 2012 in inventory was in part due to support the anticipated level of growth in net sales in fiscal year 2012, to increase inventory relating to the Sandy Bridge processors launched by Intel in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 and to address the disruption in the hard disk drive supply chain as a result of the flooding in Thailand in 2011. The increase for fiscal year 2012 in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was in part due to timing of payments to our suppliers and in part due to support our growth and our increasing manufacturing activities in Taiwan. We anticipate that accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable will continue to increase to the extent we continue to grow our product lines and our business. The increase for fiscal year 2011 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales during fiscal year 2011. The increase for fiscal year 2011 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was in part due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy, in part to support our growth and in part due to our increasing manufacturing activities in the Netherlands and Taiwan. The increase for fiscal year 2010 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales during fiscal year 2010. The increase for fiscal year 2010 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy and to support the growth of the Company. Investing activities. Net cash used in our investing activities was $19.7 million , $24.8 million and $11.8 million for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. In fiscal year 2012 , $22.0 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment net of land deposit refund primarily related to the construction of facilities in Taiwan and the headquarters office expansion in San Jose, California. The purchase of the land in Taiwan, consisting of approximately 2.2 acres, was finalized and closed in December 2011. We also completed the construction of facilities in Taiwan and the headquarters expansion in San Jose, California in December 2011. This was offset by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $2.5 million . In fiscal year 2011, $16.2 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment including $6.1 million related to the land purchased in Taiwan in August 2010 and $9.2 million was related to a deposit made in March 2011 for land in Taiwan. This was offset by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $1.5 million. In fiscal year 2010, $22.2 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment offset in part by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $8.9 million. Financing activities. Net cash provided by our financing activities was $13.8 million , $13.6 million and $16.3 million for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. In fiscal year 2012 , we received $8.5 million related to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We withheld shares and paid the minimum tax withholding on behalf of one executive officer for his restricted stock awards of $1.1 million for fiscal year 2012 . Further, we obtained a new term loan of $14.0 million from Bank of America, N.A., borrowed $19.7 million of our revolving line of credit and repaid $28.9 million in loans in fiscal year 2012 . In fiscal year 2011, we received $10.3 million related to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We withheld shares and paid the minimum tax withholding on behalf of several executive officers and an employee for their stock options and restricted stock awards of $8.4 million for fiscal year 2011. Further, we obtained a new term loan of $13.9 million and borrowed $9.9 million of our revolving line of credit. We repaid $14.1 million in loans for fiscal year 2011. In fiscal year 2010, $18.6 million was related to proceeds from the revolving line of credit associated with the purchase of three buildings and $6.4 million was proceeds from exercise of stock options. In fiscal year 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , $2.0 million , $2.4 million and $1.5 million was related to the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, respectively. We expect to experience continued growth in our working capital requirements and capital expenditures as we 42 Table of Contents continue to expand our business. Our long-term future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our level of revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of our introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity and the continuing market acceptance of our products. We intend to fund this continued expansion through cash generated by operations and by drawing on the revolving credit facility or through other debt financing. However we cannot be certain whether such financing will be available on commercially reasonable or otherwise favorable terms or that such financing will be available at all. We anticipate that working capital and capital expenditures will constitute a material use of our cash resources. We have sufficient cash on hand to continue to operate for at least the next 12 months. Other factors affecting liquidity and capital resources Activities under Revolving Lines of Credit and Term Loans Bank of America In June 2010, we obtained a revolving line of credit totaling $25.0 million from Bank of America that matures on June 15, 2013 with an interest rate at the LIBOR rate plus 1.50% per annum. In June 2010, we used $18.6 million of the line of credit to purchase three buildings in San Jose, California. In December 2010, we repaid $13.9 million of the line of credit by obtaining a term loan for the same amount from Wells Fargo Bank and the remaining $4.7 million of the line of credit has been extended to be repaid by June 15, 2013. In October 2011, the Company paid off $13.4 million of the outstanding term loan with Wells Fargo Bank with no prepayment penalty. In October 2011, we entered into a second amendment to our credit agreement with Bank of America which provided for (i) a $40.0 million revolving line of credit facility that replaced the existing $25.0 million revolving line of credit and (ii) a five-year $14.0 million term loan facility to pay off the outstanding term loan of $13.4 million. The term loan is secured by the three buildings purchased in San Jose, California in June 2010 and the principal and interest are payable monthly through September 30, 2016 with an interest rate at the LIBOR rate plus 1.50% per annum. For borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars, the interest rate for the revolving line of credit is at the LIBOR rate plus 1.25% per annum. The LIBOR rate was 0.24% at June 30, 2012 . For borrowings denominated in Taiwanese dollars, the interest rate for the revolving line of credit is equal to the lender's established interest rate which is adjusted monthly. In fiscal year 2011, we drew an additional $9.9 million from the revolving line of credit from Bank of America and paid $9.2 million for a deposit to purchase land in Taiwan. In fiscal year 2012, we drew an additional $9.8 million from the revolving line of credit for the construction of our Taiwan facilities and repaid $13.5 million. In July 2012, we drew an additional $2.2 million from the revolving line of credit for expansion of business operations in Taiwan with an interest rate at 1.29% per annum and repaid $4.9 million. As of June 30, 2012 , the total outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America term loan was $12.1 million . The total outstanding borrowings under the Bank of America line of credit was $10.6 million and $14.6 million as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. As of June 30, 2012 and 2011 , borrowings denominated in Taiwanese dollars under the Bank of America line of credit were translated to U.S. dollars of $4.9 million and $9.9 million , respectively. The interest rates for these loans ranged from 1.29% to 1.81% at June 30, 2012 and was 1.64% at June 30, 2011 , respectively. As of June 30, 2012 , the unused revolving line of credit under Bank of America was $29.4 million . China Trust Bank In October 2011, we also obtained an unsecured revolving line of credit from China Trust Bank totaling NT$300.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $9.9 million U.S. dollars equivalents that matures on July 31, 2012 with an interest rate equal to the lenders established interest rate plus 0.5% which is adjusted monthly. In fiscal year 2012, we drew the full amount from this revolving line of credit to repay $9.9 million of the revolving line of credit to Bank of America. The interest rate for the borrowing under this line of credit was 1.41% per annum at June 30, 2012 . The total outstanding borrowing under the China Trust Bank line of credit was denominated in Taiwanese dollars and was translated into U.S. dollars of $10.1 million as of June 30, 2012 . There was no unused revolving line of credit under China Trust Bank as of June 30, 2012 . In July 2012, we entered into a NT $450.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $14.9 million U.S. dollars equivalents credit facility with China Trust Bank. The credit facility provides for a one-year term loan. In July 2012, we drew NT $150.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $5.0 million U.S. dollars equivalents under the term loan. In addition, we borrowed under the term loan to 43 Table of Contents pay down the outstanding revolving line of credit of NT $300.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $10.1 million U.S. dollars equivalents. The term loan is secured by the land and building located in Bade, Taiwan with an interest rate at the lender's established interest rate plus 0.3% which is adjusted monthly. The term loan matures on July 31, 2013 with an interest rate at 1.16% per annum. We used the proceeds from this term loan to repay $4.9 million of the revolving line of credit to Bank of America. In July 2012. we have an outstanding balance under the term loan of NT $450.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $14.9 million U.S. dollars equivalents, which is the full available balance under the credit facility. Covenant Compliance The credit agreement with Bank of America contains customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The credit agreement contains certain financial covenants, including the following: Not to incur on a consolidated basis, a net loss before taxes and extraordinary items in any two consecutive quarterly accounting periods; Our funded debt to EBITDA ratio (ratio of all outstanding liabilities for borrowed money and other interest-bearing liabilities, including current and long-term debt, less the non-current portion of subordinated liabilities to EBITDA) shall not be greater than 2.00; Our unencumbered liquid assets, as defined in the agreement, held in the United States shall have an aggregate market value of not less than $30.0 million. As of June 30, 2012 , the total assets except for the three buildings purchased in San Jose, California in June 2010 collateralizing the line of credit with Bank of America were $571.1 million . As of June 30, 2012 , total assets collateralizing the term loan were $18.0 million . As of June 30, 2012 , the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants associated with the term loan and line of credit with Bank of America. The credit agreement with China Trust Bank, entered into by our Taiwan subsidiary, requires the parent company to guarantee for the revolving line of credit obligation. There is no other collateral or financial covenant associated with the revolving line of credit with China Trust Bank at June 30, 2012; however, the term loan obtained from China Trust Bank in July 2012 is secured by the land and building located in Bade, Taiwan. Contract Manufacturers In fiscal year 2012 , we paid our contract manufacturers within 37 to 77 days of invoice and Ablecom between 51 to 91 days of invoice. Ablecom, a Taiwan corporation, is one of our major contract manufacturers and a related party. As of June 30, 2012 and 2011 amounts owed to Ablecom by us were approximately $51.5 million and $34.2 million , respectively. Auction Rate Securities Valuation As of June 30, 2012 , we held $2.9 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; the auction rate security was rated CAA3 at June 30, 2012 . These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and stated maturity date for the auction rate student loans is 2040 . During February 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities began to fail to obtain sufficient bids to establish a clearing rate and were not saleable in the auction, thereby losing the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction process. As a result, as of June 30, 2012 , $2.9 million of these auction rate securities have been classified as long-term available-for-sale investments. Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2012 , we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.1 million , net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. In fiscal year 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , $2.5 million , $1.5 million and $8.9 million of auction rate securities were redeemed at par, respectively. 44 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table describes our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2012 : Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total (in thousands) Operating leases $ 3,070 $ 4,979 $ 948 $ $ 8,997 Capital leases, including interest 37 23 4 64 Long-term debt, including interest (1) 13,557 15,901 3,781 33,239 License arrangements 517 683 1,200 Purchase commitments (2) 249,412 106,170 355,582 Total $ 266,593 $ 127,756 $ 4,733 $ $ 399,082 __________________________ (1) Amount reflects total anticipated cash payments, including anticipated interest payments based on the interest rate at June 30, 2012 . (2) Amount reflects total gross purchase commitments under our manufacturing arrangements with third-party contract manufacturers or vendors. Our purchase obligations increased from $119.5 million at December 31, 2011 to $355.6 million at June 30, 2012 primarily attributable to our entry into purchase agreements with selected suppliers of hard disk drives in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 in order to ensure continuity of supply for these components following disruption of the hard disk drive supply chain due to flooding in Thailand during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. The agreements provide for some variation in the amount of units we are required to purchase and allow us to purchase these components at market-competitive rates. Product mix for these components may be negotiated quarterly. The hard disk drive purchase commitments totaled approximately $223.4 million as of June 30, 2012 and will be paid through March 2014. The table above excludes liabilities for deferred revenue for warranty services of $3.2 million and unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties accrual of $8.4 million . We have not provided a detailed estimate of the payment timing of unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainty of when the related tax settlements will become due. See Note 11 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of income taxes. We expect to fund our remaining contractual obligations from our ongoing operations and existing cash and cash equivalents on hand. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2011, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements. This amended guidance defines certain requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements were effective for the Company on January 1, 2012 and have been applied prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income, which requires companies to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. This update eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. In December 2011, the FASB deferred the effective date of the specific requirement to present items that are reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income to net income alongside their respective components of net income and other comprehensive income. We have adopted the provisions of this standard on a retrospective basis, except for the provision deferred. This adoption did not have an impact on our results of operations or financial position, but resulted in the presentation of a separate consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 45 Table of Contents Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing the risk. Some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the fair value of the investment to fluctuate. To minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in money market funds and certificates of deposit. Our long-term investments include auction rate securities, which have been classified as long-term due to the lack of a liquid market for these securities. Since our results of operations are not dependent on investments, the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio, and we believe that a 10% change in interest rates would not have a significant impact on our results of operations. As of June 30, 2012 , our investments were in money market funds, certificates of deposits and auction rate securities (see Liquidity Risk below). We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowings under our term loan and revolving lines of credit. The interest rates for the term loan and the revolving lines of credit ranged from 1.29% to 1.81% at June 30, 2012 and 1.64% to 2.14% at June 30, 2011 , respectively. Based on the outstanding principal indebtedness of $32.8 million under our credit facilities as of June 30, 2012 , we believe that a 10% change in interest rates would not have a significant impact on our results of operations. In July 2012, we entered into a NT $450.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $14.9 million U.S. dollars equivalents credit facility with China Trust Bank. The credit facility provides for a one-year term loan. In July 2012, we drew NT $150.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $5.0 million U.S. dollars equivalents under the term loan. In addition, we borrowed under the term loan to pay down the outstanding revolving line of credit of NT $300.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $10.1 million U.S. dollars equivalents. The term loan is secured by the land and building located in Bade, Taiwan with an interest rate at the lender's established interest rate plus 0.3% which is adjusted monthly. The term loan matures on July 31, 2013 with an interest rate at 1.16% per annum. We used the proceeds from this term loan to repay $4.9 million of the revolving line of credit to Bank of America. In July 2012. we have an outstanding balance under the term loan of NT $450.0 million Taiwanese dollars or $14.9 million U.S. dollars equivalents, which is the full available balance under the credit facility. We believe that a 10% change in interest rates for this additional borrowing would not have a significant impact on our results of operations. Liquidity Risk As of June 30, 2012 , we held $2.9 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; the auction rate security was rated CAA3 at June 30, 2012 . These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and the stated maturity date for the auction rate student loan is 2040 . During February 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities began to fail to obtain sufficient bids to establish a clearing rate and were not saleable in the auction, thereby losing the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction process. As a result, as of June 30, 2012 , $2.9 million of these auction rate securities have been classified as long-term available-for-sale investments. Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2012 , we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.1 million , net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. During fiscal year 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , $2.5 million , $1.5 million and $9.0 million of auction rate securities were redeemed at par, respectively. Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before the anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to June 30, 2012 , as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to June 30, 2012 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. 46 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk To date, our international customer and supplier agreements have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, we have limited exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations from customer agreements, and do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. However, the functional currency of our operations in Netherlands and Taiwan is the U.S. dollar and our local accounts including financing arrangements are denominated in the local currency in the Netherlands and Taiwan, respectively, and thus we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations associated with re-measurement to U.S. dollars. Such fluctuations have not been significant historically. Foreign exchange gain (loss) for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $(0.5) million , $0.8 million and $0.2 million , respectively. 47 Table of Contents