Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology including would, could, may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks described under Risk Factors below and in other parts of this Form 10-Q as well as in our other filings with the SEC. These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Overview We are a global leader in server technology and green computing innovation. We develop and provide high performance server solutions based on an innovative, modular and open-standard architecture. Our solutions include a range of complete rackmount, workstation, storage, graphic processing unit and blade server systems, as well as subsystems and accessories which can be used by distributors, OEMs and end customers to assemble server systems. To date, we have generated the majority of our net sales from subsystems. Since 2000, we have gradually shifted our focus and resources to designing, developing, manufacturing and selling application optimized server systems. In recent years our growth in net sales has been driven by the growth in the market for application optimized server systems. Net sales of optimized servers were $74.0 million and $51.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net sales of subsystems and accessories were $133.2 million and $97.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, we experienced an increase in net sales compared with the three months ended September 30, 2009 which we believe was primarily attributable to the economic recovery and increased sales of our 2U Twin, 2U Twin, GPU and storage solutions. We commenced operations in 1993 and have been profitable every year since inception. Our net sales were $207.2 million and $148.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our net income was $7.2 million and $3.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our increase in profitability in the three months ended September 30, 2010 was primarily attributable to the increase in our net sales and to a lesser degree from a decrease in provision for litigation loss which was offset in part by a decline in gross margins. We sell our server systems and subsystems and accessories primarily through distributors and to a lesser extent to OEMs as well as through our direct sales force. We derived approximately 60.2% and 68.1% of our net sales from products sold to distributors, and 39.8% and 31.9% from sales to OEMs and to end customers for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. None of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. We derived approximately 58.7% and 63.0% of our net sales from customers in the United States for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We derived approximately 41.3% and 37.0% of our net sales from customers outside the United States for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We perform the majority of our research and development efforts in-house. Research and development expenses represented approximately 5.0% and 5.8% of our net sales for three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We use several suppliers and contract manufacturers to design and manufacture subsystems and accessories in accordance with our specifications, with most final assembly and testing performed at our manufacturing facility in San Jose, California. During fiscal year 2010, we continued to invest in expanding our operations both in San Jose, California and at our subsidiaries in the Netherlands and Taiwan in order to support our growth. We have increased manufacturing and service operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan to support our European and Asian customers and we plan to continue expanding our overseas manufacturing capacity in fiscal year 21 Table of Contents 2011. One of our key suppliers is Ablecom, a related party, which supplies us with contract design and manufacturing support. For the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, our purchases from Ablecom represented approximately 20.9% and 22.0% of our cost of sales, respectively. The decrease in percentage of cost of sales in the three months ended September 30, 2010 was primarily related to a higher product mix of subsystems and accessories which were purchased from other suppliers in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. We continue to maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia in an effort to reduce our product costs and do not have any current plans to reduce our reliance on Ablecom product purchases. In addition to providing a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom continues to warehouse for us a number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the U.S. and Europe. We typically negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis; however, either party may re-negotiate the price of products with each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price higher or lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in our future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is less than or in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. In order to continue to increase our net sales and profits, we believe that we must continue to develop flexible and customizable server solutions and be among the first to market with new features and products. We measure our financial success based on various indicators, including growth in net sales, gross profit as a percentage of net sales, operating income as a percentage of net sales, levels of inventory, and days sales outstanding, or DSOs. In connection with these efforts, we monitor daily and weekly sales and shipment reports. Among the key non-financial indicators of our success is our ability to rapidly introduce new products and deliver the latest application optimized server solutions. In this regard, we work closely with microprocessor and other component vendors to take advantage of new technologies as they are introduced. Historically, our ability to introduce new products rapidly has allowed us to benefit from the introduction of new microprocessors and as a result we monitor the introduction cycles of Intel and AMD carefully. This also impacts our research and development expenditures. For example, our results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 were in part adversely impacted by customer order delays in anticipation of the introduction of the Nehalem line of microprocessors and research and development expenditures necessary for us to prepare for the introduction. Other Financial Highlights The following is a summary of other financial highlights of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011: We generated cash flows from operations of $16.9 million and $9.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $89.4 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared with $79.4 million at the end of fiscal year 2010. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was 32 days, compared with 30 days at the end of fiscal year 2010. Our inventory balance was $151.5 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared with $135.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2010. Days sales of inventory (DSI) at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was 76 days, compared with 67 days at the end of fiscal year 2010. The increase in our inventory balance at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was due in part to some delays in receiving parts at the end of fiscal year 2010 as well as preparing for our anticipated growth of the Company in the quarter ending December 31, 2010. Our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were $107.6 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and $92.1 million at the end of fiscal year 2010. In August 2010, we purchased land in Taiwan, consisting of approximately 4.7 acres. The purchase price is $6.1 million and we plan to develop the land for manufacturing and service operations through fiscal year 2012. We believe that our cash position, our balance sheet, our visibility into our supply chain and our financing capabilities position us well to manage through the current economic recovery. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal year 2011, for example, refer to the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. 22 Table of Contents Revenues and Expenses Net sales. Net sales consist of sales of our server solutions, including server systems, subsystems and accessories. The main factors which impact our net sales are unit volumes shipped and average selling prices. The prices for server systems range widely depending upon the configuration, and the prices for our subsystems and accessories vary based on the type. As with most electronics-based products, average selling prices typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products which utilize the latest technology and tend to decrease over time as such products mature in the market and are replaced by next generation products. Cost of sales. Cost of sales primarily consists of the costs to manufacture our products, including the costs of materials, contract manufacturing, shipping, personnel and related expenses, equipment and facility expenses, warranty costs and inventory excess and obsolete provisions. The primary factors that impact our cost of sales are the mix of products sold and cost of materials, which include raw material costs, shipping costs and salary and benefits related to production. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales may increase over time if decreases in average selling prices are not offset by corresponding decreases in our costs. Our cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, is generally lower on server systems than on subsystems and accessories. Because we do not have long-term fixed supply agreements, our cost of sales is subject to change based on market conditions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist of the personnel and related expenses of our research and development teams, and materials and supplies, consulting services, third party testing services and equipment and facility expenses related to our research and development activities. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We occasionally receive non-recurring engineering, or NRE funding from certain suppliers and customers towards our development efforts. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain research and development costs that we incur as part of the joint development of our products and those of our suppliers and customers. These amounts offset a portion of the related research and development expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and commissions for our sales and marketing personnel, costs for tradeshows, independent sales representative fees and marketing programs. From time to time, we receive cooperative marketing funding from certain suppliers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain marketing costs that we incur as part of the joint promotion of our products and those of our suppliers. These amounts offset a portion of the related expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported sales and marketing expenses. Similarly, we from time to time offer our distributors cooperative marketing funding which has the effect of increasing our expenses. The timing, magnitude and estimated usage of our programs and those of our suppliers can result in significant variations in reported sales and marketing expenses from period to period. Spending on cooperative marketing, either by us or our suppliers, typically increases in connection with significant product releases by us or our suppliers. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of general corporate costs, including personnel expenses, financial reporting, corporate governance and compliance and outside legal, audit and tax fees. Provision for litigation loss. Loss from litigation relates to an action filed in France by Digitechnic, S.A., a former customer. The Company entered into a settlement agreement with Digitechnic, pursuant to which the Company made a payment of $1.1 million in December 2009. 23 Table of Contents Interest and other income, net. Interest and other income, net represents the net of our interest income on investments or interest expense on the building loans for our owned facilities offset by interest earned on our cash and investments balances. Income tax provision. Our income tax provision is based on our taxable income generated in the jurisdictions in which we operate, currently primarily the United States and the Netherlands and to a lesser extent, Taiwan. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefit of tax exempt interest income, stock option expenses/deductions, research and development tax credits and the domestic production activities deduction. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts and sales returns, cooperative marketing accruals, investment valuations, inventory valuations, income taxes, warranty obligations and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments we make about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Because these estimates can vary depending on the situation, actual results may differ from the estimates. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies as they require our more significant judgments in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue recognition. We recognize revenue from sales of products, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, shipment has occurred and title has transferred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured, and all significant obligations have been met. Generally this occurs at the time of shipment when risk of loss and title has passed to the customer. Our standard arrangement with our customers includes a signed purchase order or contract, free-on-board shipping point terms, except for a few customers who have free-on-board destination terms, and revenue is recognized when the products arrive at the destination, 30 to 60 days payment terms, and no customer acceptance provisions. We generally do not provide for non-warranty rights of return except for products which have Out-of-box failure, where customers could return these products for credit within 30 days of receiving the items. Certain distributors and OEMs are also permitted to return products in unopened boxes, limited to purchases over a specified period of time, generally within 60 to 90 days of the purchase, or to products in the distributors or OEMs inventory at certain times (such as the termination of the agreement or product obsolescence). In addition, we have a sale arrangement with an OEM that has limited product return rights. To estimate reserves for future sales returns, we regularly review our history of actual returns for each major product line. We also communicate regularly with our distributors to gather information about end customer satisfaction, and to determine the volume of inventory in the channel. Reserves for future returns are adjusted as necessary, based on returns experience, returns expectations and communication with our distributors. 24 Table of Contents Probability of collection is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis. Customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ability to pay. If it is determined from the outset of an arrangement that collection is not probable based upon the review process, the customers are required to pay cash in advance of shipment. We also make estimates of the uncollectibility of accounts receivables, analyzing accounts receivable and historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer-credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in customer payment terms to evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of our reported operating expenses could result. We provide for price protection to certain distributors. We assess the market competition and product technology obsolescence, and make price adjustments based on our judgment. Upon each announcement of price reductions, the accrual for price protection is calculated based on our distributors inventory on hand. Such reserves are recorded as a reduction to revenue at the time we reduce the product prices. We have an immaterial amount of service revenue relating to non-warranty repairs, which is recognized upon shipment of the repaired units to customers. Service revenue has been less than 10% of net sales for all periods presented and is not separately disclosed. Cooperative marketing accruals. We have arrangements with resellers of our products to reimburse the resellers for cooperative marketing costs meeting specified criteria. We accrue the cooperative marketing costs based on these arrangements and our estimate for resellers claims for marketing activities. We record marketing costs meeting such specified criteria within sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. For those marketing costs that do not meet the specified criteria, the amounts are recorded as a reduction to sales in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Impairment of short-term and long-term investments. Impairment of short-term and long-term investments relates to the unrealized loss on the carrying value of our investments in auction rate securities; such securities were rated AAA at the date of purchase. The liquidity and fair value of these securities has been negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the credit markets and exposure of these securities to the financial condition of bond insurance companies. We have received all interest payments due on these instruments on a timely basis. Each of these securities has been subject to auction processes for which there had been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates and the auctions have subsequently failed. When these securities lost the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction processes, we reclassified these securities as long-term investments. For the securities with the stated maturity less than a year, the securities were classified as short-term available-for-sale investments. We have used a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of these investments as of September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010. The material factors used in preparing the discounted cash flow model are 1) the discount rate utilized to present value the cash flows, 2) the time period until redemption and 3) the estimated rate of return. Management derives the estimates by obtaining input from market data on the applicable discount rate, estimated time to maturity and estimated rate of return. The changes in fair value have been primarily due to changes in the estimated rate of return and a change in the estimated period to liquidity. The fair value of our investment portfolio may change between 1% to 3% by increasing or decreasing the rate of return used by 1% or by increasing or decreasing the term used by 1 year. Changes in these estimates or in the market conditions for these investments are likely in the future based upon the then current market conditions for these investments and may affect the fair value of these investments. The accumulated unrealized loss as of September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010 was $204,000, net of deferred income taxes, on the securities. We deem this loss to be temporary as we determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until recovery of cost. 25 Table of Contents Product warranties. We offer product warranties ranging from 15 to 39 months against any defective product. We accrue for estimated returns of defective products at the time revenue is recognized, based on historical warranty experience and recent trends. We monitor warranty obligations and may make revisions to our warranty reserve if actual costs of product repair and replacement are significantly higher or lower than estimated. Accruals for anticipated future warranty costs are charged to cost of sales and included in accrued liabilities. The liability for product warranties was $4.6 million as of September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010. The provision for warranty reserve was $2.6 million and $1.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our estimates and assumptions used have been historically close to actual. The change in estimated liability for pre-existing warranties was ($0.5) million and ($0.3) million in the three ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As we experienced an increase in net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2010, the provision for warranty reserve increased $1.0 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2009. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, we intend to adjust our estimates appropriately. Inventory valuation. Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We evaluate inventory on a quarterly basis for lower of cost or market and excess and obsolescence and, as necessary, write down the valuation of units to lower of cost or market or for excess and obsolescence based upon the number of units that are unlikely to be sold given the estimated demand for the following twelve months. This evaluation takes into account matters including expected demand, anticipated sales price, product obsolescence and other factors. If actual future demand for our products is less than currently forecasted, additional inventory adjustments may be required. Once a reserve is established, it is maintained until the product to which it relates is sold or scrapped. If a unit that has been written down is subsequently sold, the cost associated with the revenue from this unit is reduced to the extent of the write down, resulting in an increase in gross profit. We monitor the extent to which previously written down inventory is sold at amounts greater or less than carrying value, and based on this analysis, adjust our estimate for determining future write downs. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate a change in recovery rate compared with our historical experience, our gross margin would be affected. Our provision (benefit) for inventory was ($0.1) million and $0.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Accounting for income taxes. We account for income taxes under an asset and liability approach. Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for income tax reporting purposes, net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax credits measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are provided when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We recognize the tax liability for uncertain income tax positions on the income tax return based on the two-step process. The first step is to determine whether it is more likely than not that each income tax position would be sustained upon audit. The second step is to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority. Estimating these amounts requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on the consideration of several factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in applicable tax law, settlement of issues under audit and new exposures. If we later determine that our exposure is lower or that the liability is not sufficient to cover our revised expectations, we adjust the liability and effect a related change in our tax provision during the period in which we make such determination. See Note 13 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 26 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation. Since July 1, 2006, the Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, including stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, known as the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). Compensation expense for options granted to employees after July 1, 2006, was $1.8 million and $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of September 30, 2010, the total unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to unvested stock options granted since July 1, 2006 to employees and non-employee directors, was $14.6 million, which is expected to be recognized as an expense over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.09 years. See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We estimated the fair value of stock options granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and a single option award approach. This model requires us to make estimates and assumptions with respect to the expected term of the option, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock and the expected forfeiture rate. The fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding and was determined based on an analysis of the relevant peer companies post-vest termination rates and exercise behavior. The expected volatility is based on a combination of the implied and historical volatility of our relevant peer group for the stock options granted prior to September 30, 2009. For stock options granted after September 30, 2009, expected volatility is based solely on our historical volatility. In addition, forfeitures of share-based awards are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. Variable interest entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009 and interim periods therein and thereafter. The new guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. We adopted this standard and have analyzed our relationship with Ablecom and its subsidiaries (collectively Ablecom). We have concluded that Ablecom is a variable interest entity in accordance with applicable accounting standards and guidance; however, we are not the primary beneficiary of Ablecom and therefore, we do not consolidate Ablecom. In performing our analysis, we considered our explicit arrangements with Ablecom including the supplier and distributor arrangements. Also, as a result of the substantial related party relationship between the two companies, we considered whether any implicit arrangements exist that would cause us to protect those related parties interests in Ablecom from suffering losses. We determined that no implicit arrangements exist with Ablecom or its shareholders. Such an arrangement would be inconsistent with the fiduciary duty that we have towards our stockholders who do not own shares in Ablecom. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our financial results, as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2010 2009 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 84.1 83.5 Gross profit 15.9 16.5 Operating expenses: Research and development 5.0 5.8 Sales and marketing 3.0 3.1 General and administrative 2.1 2.6 Provision of litigation loss 0.7 Total operating expenses 10.1 12.2 Income from operations 5.8 4.3 Interest and other income, net Interest expense (0.1 ) Income before income tax provision 5.7 4.3 Income tax provision 2.2 1.7 Net income 3.5 % 2.6 % Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 Net sales. Net sales increased by $58.7 million, or 39.5%, to $207.2 million from $148.5 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase was due primarily to an increase in average selling prices of server systems and an increase in unit volumes of server systems and subsystems and accessories. For the three months ended September 30, 2010, the approximate number of server system units sold increased 35.1% to 50,000 compared to 37,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2009. The average selling price of server system units increased 7.1% to approximately $1,500 in the three months ended September 30, 2010 compared to approximately $1,400 in the three months ended September 30, 2009. The average selling prices of our server systems increased principally due to higher average selling prices of 6000 and 7000 Series configuration of servers which incorporated additional features such as higher density, memory and hard disk drive capacity. Sales of server systems increased by $22.8 million or 44.6% from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010, primarily due to higher sales of 6000 and 7000 Series configuration of servers including 2U Twin, 2U Twin, GPU and storage solutions and higher sales to OEM and end customers. Sales of server systems represented 35.7% of our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2010 as compared to 34.5% of our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2009. For the three months ended September 30, 2010, the approximate number of subsystems and accessories units sold increased 44.8% to 950,000 compared to 656,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2009. Sales of subsystems and accessories units increased by $35.8 million or 36.8% from the three months ended September 30, 2009 to the three months ended September 30, 2010, primarily due to higher sales to distributors, resellers and system integrators who increasingly are purchasing additional accessories from us and completing the final assembly themselves. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 64.3% of our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2010 as compared to 65.5% of our net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2009. We believe that the increase in our net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2010 was primarily attributable to the continuing improvement in the global economy. As a result, the amount of the percentage increases do not reflect a trend expected to continue in future periods. For the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, we derived approximately 60.2% and 68.1%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived approximately 39.8% and 31.9%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For the three months ended September 30, 2010, customers in the United States, Europe, and Asia accounted for approximately 58.7%, 22.4% and 15.7%, of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 63.0%, 20.4% and 13.5%, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2009. 28 Table of Contents Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $50.1 million, or 40.4%, to $174.1 million from $124.0 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 84.1% and 83.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily attributable to the increase in net sales, an increase of $2.6 million in freight-in charges associated with our growth in volume of products shipped at higher peak season rates, an increase of $1.1 million in our overseas production overhead and an increase of $1.0 million in provision for warranty reserve offset in part by a decrease of $0.4 million in provision for inventory reserve. The higher cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a higher percentage of sales from server systems to OEM and system integrators as we bundled additional features such as memories and hard disk drives into our server systems as well as a higher percentage of sales to internet data centers. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, we recorded a $2.6 million expense, or 1.3% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $1.6 million, or 1.1% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2010. If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or a change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or less than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, we recorded a $0.1 million benefit, or 0.0% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $0.3 million expense, or 0.2% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2009. The decrease in the inventory provision was primarily due to an increase sales of our previously reserved inventory in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $1.8 million, or 21.1%, to $10.4 million from $8.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Research and development expenses were 5.0% and 5.8% of net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $1.9 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense, resulting from growth in research and development personnel to support the expansion of our operations of our headquarter and operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan and an increase of $0.5 million in development costs associated with new products. These increases were partially offset by an increase of $0.7 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $0.9 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to the growth in research and development personnel related to expanded product development initiatives. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.7 million, or 36.9%, to $6.2 million from $4.5 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 3.0% and 3.1% of net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $0.7 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in sales and marketing personnel, an increase of $0.5 million in cooperative marketing funding to customers, an increase of $0.2 million in advertising and promotion expenses and an increase of $0.2 million in trade show and travel expenses. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $0.3 million and $0.2 million for three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.6 million, or 15.1%, to $4.4 million from $3.8 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. General and administrative expenses were 2.1% and 2.6% of net sales for three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $0.4 million in compensation and benefits, an increase of $0.4 million in accrued claim associated with a technology license and an increase of $0.3 million in legal expenses offset in part by an increase of $0.4 million in rental income and a decrease of $0.3 million in building loan fees. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $0.5 million for both three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Provision for litigation loss. There was no loss from litigation for the three months ended September 30, 2010 as compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2009. The decrease was due to a settlement payment related to the Digitechnic lawsuit. (See Note 14 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.) Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense increased by $38,000, to $139,000 of expense from $101,000 of expense, for the three months ended September 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2009, of which $159,000 and $133,000 was interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The net change was primarily due to higher interest expense as we borrowed $18.6 million to purchase three buildings with approximately 167,000 square feet of space in San Jose, California adjacent to our headquarters in June 2010. 29 Table of Contents Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased $2.2 million, or 86.4% to $4.7 million from $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate was 39.2% and 39.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate of 39.2% is estimated to be higher than the Federal statutory rate primarily due to the impact of state taxes and stock option expenses, which were partially offset by the tax benefits of California research and development credits and domestic production activities deduction. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have financed our growth primarily with funds generated from operations and from the proceeds of our initial public offering. In addition, we have from time to time utilized borrowing facilities, particularly in relation to the financing of real property acquisitions. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were $83.6 million and $73.5 million as of September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010, respectively. Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $16.9 million and $9.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net cash provided by our operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2010 consisted of our net income of $7.2 million, an increase in accounts payable of $17.6 million, an increase in accrued liabilities of $4.3 million, an increase in deferred income taxes of $2.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of $1.8 million, an allowance for sales returns of $1.3 million and a depreciation expense of $1.3 million, which was substantially offset by an increase in inventory of $15.8 million and an increase in prepaid expense and other assets of $3.8 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended September 30, 2009 was primarily due to our net income of $3.9 million, an increase in accounts payable of $12.9 million, an increase in prepaid income taxes of $2.2 million and stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million, which was substantially offset by an increase in inventory of $10.3 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $5.4 million. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2010 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy and to support the growth of the Company. We anticipate that accounts receivable, sales returns, inventory and accounts payable will continue to increase to the extent we continue to grow our product lines and our business. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2009 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2009 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to an increase from a recovering economy and support of new products. Investing activities . Net cash provided by (used in) our investing activities was ($6.4) million and $2.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, $7.3 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment offset in part by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $0.9 million. In the three months ended September 30, 2009, the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $3.4 million was offset in part by the purchase of property, plant and equipment of $0.7 million. We have historically owned our manufacturing facilities and have leased off-shore offices. In August 2010, we purchased land in Taiwan, consisting of approximately 4.7 acres. The purchase price is $6.1 million and we plan to develop the land for manufacturing and service operations through fiscal year 2012. We plan to finance the purchase and the development of the land in Taiwan through operating cash flows and additional financing from banks in fiscal year 2011. Financing activities . Net cash provided by (used in) our financing activities was $0.4 million and ($9.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively was related to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We paid the minimum tax withholding on behalf of an executive officer for his restricted stock awards of $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. We repaid $10.0 million in loans for the three months ended September 30, 2009. We expect the net cash used in financing activities will increase in the quarter ending December 31, 2010 as we intend to pay-off our existing line of credit by December 2010 with our operating cash and a mortgage loan. However, we cannot provide any assurance that such financing will be available at terms acceptable to the Company. 30 Table of Contents We have historically generated cash from our operating activities as we have grown. We expect to experience continued growth in our working capital requirements as we continue to expand our business. We intend to fund this continued expansion through cash generated by operations. We anticipate that working capital will constitute a material use of our cash resources. We have sufficient cash on hand to continue to operate in the next 12 months. Other factors affecting liquidity and capital resources As of September 30, 2010, we had a revolving line of credit totaling $25.0 million that matures on June 15, 2013 with an interest rate at the LIBOR rate plus 1.50% per annum. In June 2010, we used $18.6 million of the line of credit to purchase three buildings with approximately 167,000 square feet of space in San Jose, California adjacent to our headquarters. The loan is secured by all our assets except for the three buildings purchased in San Jose, California, and we are required to obtain a mortgage loan to pay-off this line of credit by December 2010. As of September 30, 2010, we were in compliance with the financial covenants associated with the line of credit. In addition, we have historically paid our contract manufacturers within 40 to 75 days of invoice and Ablecom between 50 and 100 days of invoice. Ablecom, a Taiwan corporation, is one of our major contract manufacturers and a related party. As of September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010 amounts owed to Ablecom by us were approximately $30.5 million and $19.5 million, respectively. In February 2008, we leased an office building of approximately 246,000 square feet in Fremont, California with total payment obligations of approximately $8.0 million over the next 4.8 years as of September 30, 2010. We also obtained an irrevocable standby letter of credit required by the landlord of the office lease totaling $121,000. This amount has been classified as a restricted asset as of September 30, 2010. As of September 30, 2010, we held $5.8 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; such auction rate securities were rated AAA, BAA1 or BAA3 at September 30, 2010. These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and stated maturity dates for these auction rate student loans range from 2033 to 2040. During February 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities began to fail to obtain sufficient bids to establish a clearing rate and were not saleable in the auction, thereby losing the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction process. As a result, as of September 30, 2010, $5.8 million of these auction rate securities have been classified as long-term available-for-sale investments. Based on our assessment of fair value at September 30, 2010, we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before the anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold these investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to September 30, 2010, as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to September 30, 2010 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. During the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, $0.9 million and $3.4 million of these auction rate securities were redeemed at par, respectively. 31 Table of Contents Our long-term future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our level of revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of our introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity and the continuing market acceptance of our products. We could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Contractual Obligations The following table describes our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2010: Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total (in thousands) Operating leases $ 2,787 $ 4,296 $ 3,776 $ 240 $ 11,099 Capital leases, including interest 53 40 5 98 Building loan, including interest 18,553 18,553 License arrangements 3,419 911 570 4,900 Purchase commitments 44,189 44,189 Total $ 69,001 $ 5,247 $ 4,351 $ 240 $ 78,839 The table above excludes liabilities for deferred rent of $0.8 million, deferred revenue for warranty services of $1.7 million and unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties accrual of $6.6 million. We have not provided a detailed estimate of the payment timing of unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainty of when the related tax settlements will become due. We expect to fund our remaining contractual obligations from our ongoing operations and existing cash and cash equivalents on hand. 32 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.