Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. While we attempt to assist our distributors in maintaining targeted stocking level of our products, we may not consistently be accurate or successful. This process involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties including end customer demand. Our distributors also have various rights to return products which could, among other things, result in our having to repurchase inventory which has declined in value or is obsolete. Consequently, actual results could differ from our estimates. Inventory levels of our products held by our distributors may exceed or fall below the levels we consider desirable on a going-forward basis. This could adversely affect our distributors or our ability to efficiently manage or invest in internal resources, such as manufacturing and shipping capacity, to meet the demand for our products. Any failure to adequately expand our sales force will impede our growth. Though we expect to continue to rely primarily on third party distributors to sell our server solutions, we expect that, over time, our direct sales force will grow. Competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need is intense. Our ability to grow our revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, retaining and successfully managing sufficient qualified direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may take six months or longer before they reach full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, sales of our server solutions will suffer. Our direct sales efforts may create confusion for our end customers and harm our relationships with our distributors and OEMs. Though our direct sales efforts have historically been limited and focused on customers who typically do not buy from distributors or OEMs, we expect our direct sales force to grow as our business grows. As our direct sales force becomes larger, our direct sales efforts may lead to conflicts with our distributors and OEMs, who may view our direct sales efforts as undermining their efforts to sell our products. If a distributor or OEM deems our direct sales efforts to be inappropriate, the distributor or OEM may not effectively market our products, may emphasize alternative products from competitors, or may seek to terminate our business relationship. Disruptions in our distribution channels could cause our revenues to decrease or fail to grow as expected. Our failure to implement an effective direct sales strategy that maintains and expands our relationships with our distributors and OEMs could lead to a decline in sales and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are required to change the timing of our revenue recognition, our net sales and net income could decrease. We currently record revenue based upon a sell-in model with revenues generally recorded upon shipment of products to our distributors. This is in contrast to a sell-through model pursuant to which revenues are 21 Table of Contents generally recognized upon sale of products by distributors to their customers. This requires that we maintain a reserve to cover the estimated costs of any returns or exercises of stock rotation rights, which we estimate primarily based on our historical experience. If facts and circumstances change such that the rate of returns of our products exceeds our historical experience, we may have to increase our reserve, which, in turn, would cause our revenue to decline. Similarly, if facts and circumstances change such that we are no longer able to determine reasonable estimates of our sales returns, we would be required to defer our revenue recognition until the point of sale from the distributors to their customers. Any such change may negatively impact our net sales or net income for particular periods and cause a decline in our stock price. For additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. The average selling prices for our existing server solutions are subject to decline if customers do not continue to purchase our latest generation products, which could harm our results of operations. As with most electronics based products, average selling prices of servers typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products, which utilize the latest technology, and tend to decrease over time as such products become commoditized and are ultimately replaced by even newer generation products. As our business continues to grow, we may increasingly be subject to this industry risk. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any decline in the average selling prices of our server solutions that we may experience in the future. In some instances, our agreements with our distributors limit our ability to reduce prices unless we make such price reductions available to them, or price protect their inventory. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs faster than the rate at which average selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Our cost structure and ability to deliver server solutions to customers in a timely manner may be adversely affected by volatility of the market for core components and materials for our products. Prices of materials and core components utilized in the manufacture of our server solutions, such as serverboards, chassis, central processing units, or CPUs, memory and hard drives represent a significant portion of our cost of sales. We generally do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and core components, but instead purchase these materials and components on a purchase order basis. Prices of these core components and materials are volatile, and, as a result, it is difficult to predict expense levels and operating results. In addition, if our business growth renders it necessary or appropriate to transition to longer term contracts with materials and core component suppliers, our costs may increase and our gross margins could correspondingly decrease. Because we often acquire materials and core components on an as needed basis, we may be limited in our ability to effectively and efficiently respond to customer orders because of the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of materials and core components. Our industry has experienced materials shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical materials in the future. From time to time, we have been forced to delay the introduction of certain of our products or the fulfillment of customer orders as a result of shortages of materials and core components. For example, we were unable to fulfill certain orders at the end of the quarter ended June 30, 2010 due to component shortages. If shortages or delays arise, the prices of these materials and core components may increase or the materials and core components may not be available at all. In addition, in the event of shortages, some of our larger competitors may have greater abilities to obtain materials and core components due to their larger purchasing power. We may not be able to secure enough core components or materials at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may lose sales or incur unexpected expenses relating to insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory. As a result of our strategy to provide greater choice and customization of our products to our customers, we are required to maintain a high level of inventory. If we fail to maintain sufficient inventory, we may not be able 22 Table of Contents to meet demand for our products on a timely basis, and our sales may suffer. If we overestimate customer demand for our products, we could experience excess inventory of our products and be unable to sell those products at a reasonable price, or at all. As a result, we may need to record higher inventory reserves. If we are later able to sell such products at a profit, it may increase the quarterly variances in our operating results. Additionally, the rapid pace of innovation in our industry could render significant portions of our existing inventory obsolete. Certain of our distributors and OEMs have rights to return products, limited to purchases over a specified period of time, generally within 60 to 90 days of the purchase, or to products in the distributors or OEMs inventory at certain times, such as termination of the agreement or product obsolescence. Any returns under these arrangements could result in additional obsolete inventory. In addition, server systems, subsystems and accessories that have been customized and later returned by those of our customers and partners who have return rights or stock rotation rights may be unusable for other purposes or may require reformation at additional cost to be made ready for sale to other customers. Excess or obsolete inventory levels for these or other reasons could result in unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves against potential future charges which would adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded inventory write-downs charged to cost of sales of $2.6 million, $1.5 million and $6.9 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. For additional information regarding customer return rights, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting PoliciesRevenue Recognition. Our focus on internal development and customizable server solutions could delay our introduction of new products and result in increased costs. Our strategy is to rely to a significant degree on internally developed components, even when third party components may be available. We believe this allows us to develop products with a greater range of features and functionality and allows us to develop solutions that are more customized to customer needs. However, if not properly managed, this reliance on internally developed components may be more costly than use of third party components, thereby making our products less price competitive or reducing our margins. In addition, our reliance on internal development may lead to delays in the introduction of new products and impair our ability to introduce products rapidly to market. We may also experience increases in our inventory costs and obsolete inventory, thereby reducing our margins. Our research and development expenditures, as a percentage of our net sales, are considerably higher than many of our competitors and our earnings will depend upon maintaining revenues and margins that offset these expenditures. Our strategy is to focus on being consistently rapid-to-market with flexible and customizable server systems that take advantage of our own internal development and the latest technologies offered by microprocessor manufacturers and other component vendors. Consistent with this strategy, we spend higher amounts, as a percentage of revenues, on research and development costs than many of our competitors. If we can not sell our products in sufficient volume and with adequate gross margins to compensate for such investment in research and development, our earnings may be materially and adversely affected. If our limited number of contract manufacturers or suppliers of materials and core components fail to meet our requirements, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which could decrease our revenues and earnings. We purchase many sophisticated materials and core components from one or a limited number of qualified suppliers and rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to provide value added design, manufacturing, assembly and test services. We generally do not have long-term agreements with these vendors, and instead obtain key materials and services through purchase order arrangements. We have no contractual assurances from any contract manufacturer that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. 23 Table of Contents Consequently, we are vulnerable to any disruptions in supply with respect to the materials and core components provided by limited-source suppliers, and we are at risk of being harmed by discontinuations of design, manufacturing, assembly or testing services from our contract manufacturers. We have occasionally experienced delivery delays from our suppliers and contract manufacturers because of high industry demand or because of inability to meet our quality or delivery requirements. For example, in the quarter ended September 30, 2006, we experienced delays in the delivery of printed circuit board material as a result of the loss of two of our five printer circuit board vendors. One of the vendors filed for bankruptcy and the other changed its business model and ceased supplying us. The delays in delivery of the materials resulted in a reduction of net sales for the quarter of approximately two to three million dollars. If our relationships with our suppliers and contract manufactures are negatively impacted by late payments or other issues, we may not receive timely delivery of materials and core components. If we were to lose any of our current supply or contract manufacturing relationships, the process of identifying and qualifying a new supplier or contract manufacturer who will meet our quality and delivery requirements, and who will appropriately safeguard our intellectual property, may require a significant investment of time and resources, adversely affecting our ability to satisfy customer purchase orders and delaying our ability to rapidly introduce new products to market. Similarly, if any of our suppliers were to cancel or materially change contracts or commitments to us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer demand for our products, our reputation and relationships with customers could be damaged. We could lose orders, be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenues, margins and earnings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to deliver high quality server solutions could damage our reputation and diminish demand for our products. Our server solutions are critical to our customers business operations. Our customers require our server solutions to perform at a high level, contain valuable features and be extremely reliable. The design of our server solutions is sophisticated and complex, and the process for manufacturing, assembling and testing our server solutions is challenging. Occasionally, our design or manufacturing processes may fail to deliver products of the quality that our customers require. For example, in 2000, a vendor provided us with a defective capacitor that failed under certain heavy use applications. As a result, our product needed to be repaired. Though the vendor agreed to pay for a large percentage of the costs of the repairs, we incurred costs in connection with the recall and diverted resources from other projects. New flaws or limitations in our server solutions may be detected in the future. Part of our strategy is to bring new products to market quickly, and first-generation products may have a higher likelihood of containing undetected flaws. If our customers discover defects or other performance problems with our products, our customers businesses, and our reputation, may be damaged. Customers may elect to delay or withhold payment for defective or underperforming server solutions, request remedial action, terminate contracts for untimely delivery, or elect not to order additional server solutions, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or subject us to the expense and risk of litigation. We may incur expense in recalling, refurbishing or repairing defective server solutions. If we do not properly address customer concerns about our products, our reputation and relationships with our customers may be harmed. For all of these reasons, customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products could substantially impair our ability to grow our business. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Ablecom Technology Inc., one of our major contract manufacturers, and those conflicts may adversely affect our operations. We use Ablecom, a related party, for contract design and manufacturing coordination support. We work with Ablecom to optimize modular designs for our chassis and certain of other components. Our purchases from Ablecom represented 20.5%, 22.1% and 24.3% of our cost of sales for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. Ablecom is a privately-held Taiwan-based company. 24 Table of Contents Steve Liang, Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer and largest shareholder, is the brother of Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Charles Liang, and his spouse, Chiu-Chu (Sara) Liu Liang, our Vice President of Operations, Treasurer and director, jointly own 10.5% of Ablecoms outstanding common stock. Charles Liang served as a director of Ablecom during our fiscal 2006, but is not currently serving in such capacity. Mr. Charles Liang, Ms. Liang, Mr. Steve Liang and relatives of these individuals own 46.4% of Ablecoms outstanding common stock. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Liang, as directors, officers and significant stockholders of the Company, have considerable influence over the management of our business relationships. Accordingly, we may be disadvantaged by their economic interests as stockholders of Ablecom and their personal relationship with Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer. We may not negotiate or enforce contractual terms as aggressively with Ablecom as we might with an unrelated party, and the commercial terms of our agreements may be less favorable than we might obtain in negotiations with third parties. If our business dealings with Ablecom are not as favorable to us as arms-length transactions, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, our relationships with Ablecom could be adversely affected by declines in our stock price or divestments by Ablecom of its shares of our common stock. Steve Liang, Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer, held 2.0% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2010. If the value of the shares that Steve Liang holds should decline, by decrease in our stock price or by disposition of the shares, if Steve Liang ceases to have significant influence over Ablecom, or if those of our stockholders who hold shares of Ablecom cease to hold a majority of the outstanding shares of Ablecom, the terms and conditions of our agreements with Ablecom may not be as favorable as those in our existing contracts. As a result, our costs could increase and adversely affect our margins and results of operations. Our relationship with Ablecom may allow us to benefit from favorable pricing which may result in reported results more favorable than we might report in the absence of our relationship. Although we generally re-negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis, pursuant to our agreements with Ablecom either party may re-negotiate the price of products for each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is less than or in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. Our reliance on Ablecom could be subject to risks associated with our reliance on a limited source of contract manufacturing services and inventory warehousing. We continue to maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia. In order to provide a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom will continue to warehouse for us an increasing number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the U.S. and Europe. We also anticipate that we will continue to lease office space from Ablecom in Taiwan to support the research and development efforts we are undertaking. If we or Ablecom fail to manage the contract manufacturing services and warehouse operations in Asia, we may experience delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Similarly, if Ablecoms facility in Asia is subject to damage, destruction or other disruptions, our inventory may be damaged or destroyed, and we may be unable to find adequate alternative providers of contract manufacturing services in the time that we or our customers require. We could lose orders and be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all. Currently, we purchase contract manufacturing services primarily for our chassis and power supply products from Ablecom. If our commercial relationship with Ablecom were to deteriorate or terminate, establishing direct 25 Table of Contents relationships with those entities supplying Ablecom with key materials for our products or identifying and negotiating agreements with alternative providers of warehouse and contract manufacturing services might take a considerable amount of time and require a significant investment of resources. Pursuant to our agreements with Ablecom and subject to certain exceptions, Ablecom has the exclusive right to be our supplier of the specific products developed under such agreements. As a result, if we are unable to obtain such products from Ablecom on terms acceptable to us, we may need to identify a new supplier, change our design and acquire new tooling, all of which could result in delays in our product availability and increased costs. If we need to use other suppliers, we may not be able to establish business arrangements that are, individually or in the aggregate, as favorable as the terms and conditions we have established with Ablecom. If any of these things should occur, our net sales, margins and earnings could significantly decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are increasing our operations in Taiwan, China and the Netherlands and could be subject to risks of doing business in the region. We intend to increase our business operations in Europe and Asia, and particularly in the Netherlands, Taiwan and China. As a result, our exposure to the business risks presented by the economies and regulatory environments of Asia will increase. For example, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property is uncertain and evolving in the Netherlands, Taiwan and China, and our intellectual property rights may not be protected under the laws of the Netherlands, Taiwan and China to the same extent as under laws of the United States. If our intellectual property is misappropriated, we may experience unfair competition and declining sales or be forced to incur increased costs of enforcing our intellectual property rights, both of which would adversely affect our net sales, gross margins and results of operations. Our growth into markets outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We market and sell our systems and components both domestically and outside the United States. We intend to expand our international sales efforts, especially into Asia, but our international expansion efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; localization of our systems and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; foreign currency fluctuations; limited visibility into sales of our products by our distributors; laws favoring local competitors; weaker legal protections of intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the U.S., such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers councils and labor unions; and changing regional economic and political conditions. These factors could limit our future international sales or otherwise adversely impact our operations. 26 Table of Contents We have in the past entered into plea and settlement agreements with the government relating to violations of export control and related laws; if we fail to comply with laws and regulations restricting dealings with sanctioned countries, we may be subject to future civil or criminal penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or ability to do business outside the U.S. In 2006, we entered into certain plea and settlement agreement with government agencies relating to export control and related law violations for activities that occurred in the 2001 to 2003 timeframe. We believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable export related laws and regulations. However, if our export compliance program is not effective, or if we are subject to any future claims regarding violation of export control and economic sanctions laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could lead to a material fine or other sanctions, including loss of export privileges, that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. In addition, these plea and settlement agreements and any future violations could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell our products to U.S. federal, state and local government and related entities. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and technical know-how could impair our brand and our competitiveness. Our ability to prevent competitors from gaining access to our technology is essential to our success. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may lose an important advantage in the markets in which we compete. Trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as our internal confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions are the core of our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation, and we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. Such administrative proceedings and litigation are inherently uncertain and divert resources that could be put towards other business priorities. We may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome and may spend considerable resources in our efforts to defend and protect our intellectual property. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Resolution of claims that we have violated or may violate the intellectual property rights of others could require us to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors, redesign our products, or pay significant royalties to third parties, and materially harm our business. Our industry is marked by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate third parties intellectual property rights. For example, we were subject to a lawsuit filed in 2005 by Rackable Systems, Inc. In May 2007, we settled the claims on terms which had no adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. In addition, increasingly non-operating companies are purchasing patents and bringing claims against technology companies. We are currently subject to one such claim and recently settled another. Successful intellectual property claims 27 Table of Contents against us from others could result in significant financial liability or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business as we currently conduct it or as we may later conduct it. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our technology, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights, and to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against, and divert the attention of our technical and management resources. If we lose Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, or any other key employee or are unable to attract additional key employees, we may not be able to implement our business strategy in a timely manner. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. In particular, Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, is critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our culture and our strategic direction. Mr. Liang co-founded our company and has been our Chief Executive Officer since our inception. His experience in running our business and his personal involvement in key relationships with suppliers, customers and strategic partners are extremely valuable to our company. We currently do not have a succession plan for the replacement of Mr. Liang if it were to become necessary. Additionally, we are particularly dependent on the continued service of our existing research and development personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. Our employment arrangements with our executives and employees do not require them to provide services to us for any specific length of time, and they can terminate their employment with us at any time, with or without notice, without penalty. The loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other key members of our team could seriously harm our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract additional highly qualified personnel, including additional engineers and executive staff. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, especially in San Jose, where we are headquartered. We have experienced in the past and may continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, we are currently working to add personnel in our finance, accounting and general administration departments, which have historically had limited budgets and staffing. If we are unable to attract and integrate additional key employees in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, or if we do not maintain competitive compensation policies to retain our employees, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited. Backlog does not provide a substantial portion of our net sales in any quarter. Our net sales are difficult to forecast because we do not have sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly net sales targets at the beginning of a quarter. Rather, a majority of our net sales in any quarter depend upon customer orders that we receive and fulfill in that quarter. Because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future net sales and to a large extent are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust spending in time to compensate for any shortfall in net sales. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations would harm our operating results. Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes other natural catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, including our most significant research and development and manufacturing operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. We do not currently have a comprehensive disaster recovery program and as a result, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we are in the process of preparing such a program, there is no assurance that it will be effective in the event of such a disaster. 28 Table of Contents We invest in auction rate securities that are subject to market risk and the recent problems in the financial markets could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our assets. As of June 30, 2010, we held $6.7 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; such auction rate securities were rated AAA or BAA3 at June 30, 2010. These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and the stated maturity dates for these auction rate student loans range from 2010 to 2040. Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2010, we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes, on both long-term and short-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to June 30, 2010, as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to June 30, 2010 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. During fiscal year 2010, 2009 and 2008, $8.9 million, $0.9 million and $20.6 million of auction rate securities were redeemed at par, respectively. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. As a result, our efforts to comply with Section 404 have required the commitment of significant managerial and financial resources. As we are committed to maintaining high standards of public disclosure, our efforts to comply with Section 404 are ongoing, and we are continuously in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting, which will result in continued commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Although we strive to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to prevent and detect material misstatements in our annual and quarterly financial statements and prevent fraud, we cannot assure that such efforts will be effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our operating results, financial position and stock price could be adversely affected. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and toxic materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes, we could be subject to fines, costs, or civil or criminal sanctions, face third party property damage or personal injury claims or be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, which could be 29 Table of Contents material, or experience disruptions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, environmental laws could become more stringent over time imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances applicable to specified electronic products placed on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the RoHS Directive). We are also subject to laws and regulations such as Californias Proposition 65 which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the State of California to be dangerous, such as lead. We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, and could require that we change the design and/or manufacturing of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, and you might not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased the shares. The trading prices of technology company securities in general have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors, in addition to those outlined elsewhere in this prospectus, that may affect the trading price of our common stock include: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; Changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; the loss of a key customer; the loss of key personnel; technological advancements rendering our products less valuable; Lawsuits filed against us; Changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other companies that sell similar products; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. Attempts by existing stockholders to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline significantly. As of June 30, 2010, we had 37.0 million shares of common stock outstanding, net of treasury stock. All of these shares are eligible for sale in the public market, including 11.3 million shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, which 30 Table of Contents are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, 12.6 million shares subject to outstanding options and reserved for future issuance under our stock option plans are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. If an industry analyst decides not to cover our company, or if an industry analyst decides to cease covering our company at some point in the future, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. If an industry analyst downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of August 24, 2010, our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially owned 36.4 percent of our common stock outstanding, net of treasury stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders, including those who purchase shares in this offering, oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware 31 Table of Contents corporations voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Our principal executive offices, research and development center and production operations are located in San Jose, California where we own approximately 518,000 square feet of office and manufacturing space subject to existing line of credit with $18.6 million remaining outstanding as of June 30, 2010. In June 2010, we purchased three buildings located in San Jose, California which are approximately 167,000 square feet of space. Additionally, in fiscal year 2008, we began leasing approximately 246,000 square feet of warehouse in Fremont, California under a lease that expires in 2015. Our European headquarters for manufacturing and service operations is located in Denbosch, Netherlands where we lease approximately 58,000 square feet of office space under four leases, two of which expire in 2011 and two expire in 2016. In Asia, our research and development center, manufacturing and service operations are located in an approximately 75,000 square feet facility in Taipei County, Taiwan under seven leases that expire at various dates through 2012. In fiscal year 2010, we leased an additional 47,000 square feet facility in Taipei County, Taiwan to support our manufacturing and service operations in Asia. We plan to purchase land in Taiwan in fiscal year 2011 and develop the land for manufacturing and service operations through fiscal year 2012. We plan to finance the purchase and the development through operating cash flows and additional financing from banks. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We were subject to a suit brought by Digitechnic, S.A. which was filed in the Bobigny Commercial Court in Paris, in 1999. The claims involve allegations of damages stemming from allegedly defective products. In September 2003, the Bobigny Commercial Court awarded damages of approximately $1.2 million against us. In February 2005, the Paris Court of Appeals reversed the trial courts ruling, dismissed all of Digitechnics claims and awarded costs to us. Digitechnic appealed the decision to the French Supreme Court and asked for $2.4 million for damages. On February 13, 2007, the French Supreme Court reversed the decision of the Paris Court of Appeals, ordering a new hearing before a different panel of the Paris Court of Appeals. In March 2008, we posted a bond in the amount of $3.1 million required by the court. The bond was collateralized by an irrevocable standby letter of credit totaling $1.5 million. In October 2009, the Paris Court of Appeals awarded damages of approximately $1.1 million against the Company. A provision of $1.1 million for litigation loss was recorded in fiscal year 2010. The Company entered into a settlement agreement with Digitechnic, pursuant to which the Company made a payment of $1.1 million in December 2009. 32 Table of Contents In addition to the above, from time to time, we may be involved in various legal proceedings arising from the normal course of business activities. In our opinion, resolution of these and the above matters is not expected to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or our financial position. However, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially affect our future results of operations, cash flows or financial position in a particular period. Item 4. Reserved 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock has been traded on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol SMCI since our initial public offering on March 28, 2007. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported by The Nasdaq Global Market. High Low Fiscal Year 2009: First Quarter $ 10.75 $ 7.52 Second Quarter $ 9.08 $ 3.85 Third Quarter $ 7.06 $ 4.39 Fourth Quarter $ 8.32 $ 5.04 High Low Fiscal Year 2010: First Quarter $ 8.84 $ 7.09 Second Quarter $ 11.45 $ 7.56 Third Quarter $ 17.84 $ 11.27 Fourth Quarter $ 18.89 $ 12.01 Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Holders There were 44 registered stockholders of record of our common stock on August 24, 2010. Because most of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders. Equity Compensation Plan Please see Part III, Item 12 of this report for disclosure relating to our equity compensation plans. 34 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock between March 29, 2007 (the date of our initial public offering) and June 30, 2010 with the cumulative return of the Nasdaq Computer Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index, which both include our common stock, for the comparable period. The graph reflects an investment of $100 in our common stock, the Nasdaq Computer Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index, on March 29, 2007, and a reinvestment of dividends, if any. The stockholder return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns. Comparison of March 29, 2007 to June 30, 2010 Cumulative Total Return Among Super Micro Computer, Nasdaq Computer Index and Nasdaq Composite 03/29/07 06/29/07 09/28/07 12/31/07 03/31/08 06/30/08 09/30/08 Super Micro Computer, Inc. 100.00 113.11 110.28 86.67 94.35 83.39 101.81 Nasdaq Composite Index 100.00 107.02 111.06 109.04 93.69 94.26 86.00 Nasdaq Computer Index 100.00 110.22 116.09 122.68 97.96 102.75 86.79 12/31/08 03/31/09 06/30/09 09/30/09 12/31/09 03/31/10 06/30/10 Super Micro Computer, Inc. 71.53 55.59 86.55 95.59 125.65 195.25 152.54 Nasdaq Composite Index 64.83 62.84 75.44 87.25 93.28 98.58 86.71 Nasdaq Computer Index 65.40 68.55 85.05 99.38 111.72 114.55 101.73 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 35 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data is qualified by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part II, Item 8 and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data:(1) Net sales $ 721,438 $ 505,609 $ 540,503 $ 420,393 $ 302,541 Cost of sales 606,446 416,899 436,950 345,384 242,235 Gross profit 114,992 88,710 103,553 75,009 60,306 Operating expenses: Research and development 37,382 34,514 30,537 21,171 15,814 Sales and marketing 20,458 17,119 18,191 12,586 9,363 General and administrative 15,318 13,824 14,554 11,467 6,931 Provision for (reversal of) litigation loss 1,089 (120 ) 575 Total operating expenses 74,247 65,457 63,282 45,104 32,683 Income from operations 40,745 23,253 40,271 29,905 27,623 Interest and other income, net 103 476 1,558 765 256 Interest expense (383 ) (930 ) (1,025 ) (1,332 ) (1,257 ) Income before income tax provision 40,465 22,799 40,804 29,338 26,622 Income tax provision 13,550 6,692 15,385 9,999 9,675 Net income $ 26,915 $ 16,107 $ 25,419 $ 19,339 $ 16,947 Net income per share Basic $ 0.73 $ 0.46 $ 0.81 $ 0.80 $ 0.77 Diluted $ 0.65 $ 0.41 $ 0.65 $ 0.57 $ 0.53 Shares used in per share calculation Basic 35,883 34,218 31,355 24,153 22,010 Diluted 40,735 38,596 38,843 33,946 31,846 (1) Includes charges for stock-based compensation: Cost of sales $ 573 $ 578 $ 523 $ 300 $ 102 Research and development 3,106 2,608 1,817 1,058 441 Sales and marketing 880 826 641 362 236 General and administrative 1,898 1,649 1,187 710 317 As of June 30, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 72,644 $ 70,295 $ 51,481 $ 50,864 $ 16,509 Working capital 158,982 130,987 102,392 95,086 37,026 Total assets 370,762 283,135 264,385 205,583 131,001 Short-term debt 18,553 Long-term obligations, net of current portion(2) 8,186 15,482 15,023 11,291 18,685 Total stockholders equity 224,701 178,622 151,871 115,872 47,767 (2) $18.6 million of our short-term debt consisted of a building loan at June 30, 2010. $9.7 million, $10.0 million, $11.3 million and $18.6 million of our long-term obligations, net of current portion consisted of building loans at June 30, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 36 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview We are a global leader in server technology and green computing innovation. We develop and provide high performance server solutions based on an innovative, modular and open-standard architecture. Our solutions include a range of complete rackmount, workstation, storage, graphic processing unit and blade server systems, as well as subsystems and accessories which can be used by distributors, OEMs and end customers to assemble server systems. To date, we have generated the majority of our net sales from subsystems. In recent years our growth in net sales has been driven by the growth in the market for application optimized server systems. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, net sales of optimized servers were $245.2 million, $196.7 million and $209.1 million, respectively, and net sales of subsystems and accessories were $476.2 million, $309.0 million and $331.4 million, respectively. In fiscal year 2010, we experienced an increase in net sales compared with fiscal year 2009 which we believe was primarily attributable to the recovery of the economy. In fiscal year 2009, we experienced a decline in net sales compared with fiscal year 2008 which we believe was primarily attributable to reductions in information technology spending in response to the global economic downturn. We commenced operations in 1993 and have been profitable every year since inception. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, our net sales were $721.4 million, $505.6 million and $540.5 million, respectively, and our net income was $26.9 million, $16.1 million and $25.4 million, respectively. Our increase in profitability in fiscal year 2010 was primarily attributable to the increase in our net sales of our subsystems and accessories and server systems offset in part by a decline in gross margins across our product lines as we grew market share during a time of economic recovery and an increase in operating expenses including $1.1 million for a provision for litigation loss (see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our decline in profitability in fiscal year 2009 was primarily attributable to the reduction in our net sales and to a lesser extent attributable to a reduction in our gross profit as a percentage of net sales as a result of increasing pricing pressure, offset in part by cost saving programs. We sell our server systems and subsystems and accessories primarily through distributors and to a lesser extent to OEMs as well as through our direct sales force. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived 66.7%, 64.9% and 59.9%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors, and we derived 33.3%, 35.1% and 40.1%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. None of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in fiscal years 2010, 2009 or 2008. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived 60.1%, 64.4% and 60.4%, respectively, of our net sales from customers in the United States. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived 39.9%, 35.6% and 39.6%, respectively, of our net sales from customers outside the United States. We perform the majority of our research and development efforts in-house. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, research and development expenses represented 5.2%, 6.8% and 5.6% of our net sales, respectively. We use several suppliers and contract manufacturers to design and manufacture components in accordance with our specifications, with most final assembly and testing performed at our manufacturing facility in San Jose, California. During fiscal year 2010, we continued to invest in expanding our operations both in San Jose, California and our subsidiaries in the Netherlands and Taiwan in order to support our growth. We have begun manufacturing and service operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan to support our European and Asian customers and we plan to continue expanding our overseas manufacturing capacity in fiscal year 2011. One of 37 Table of Contents our key suppliers is Ablecom, a related party, which supplies us with contract design and manufacturing support. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, our purchases from Ablecom represented 20.5%, 22.1% and 24.3% of our cost of sales, respectively. The decrease in percentage of cost of sales in fiscal year 2010 and 2009 was primarily related to a higher product mix of subsystems and accessories which were purchased from other suppliers in fiscal year 2010 and 2009. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. We continue to maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia in an effort to reduce our product costs and do not have any current plans to reduce our reliance on Ablecom product purchases. In addition to to providing a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom continues to warehouse for us a number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the U.S. and Europe. We typically negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis; however, either party may re-negotiate the price of products with each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price higher or lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in our future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is less than or in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. In order to continue to increase our net sales and profits, we believe that we must continue to develop flexible and customizable server solutions and be among the first to market with new features and products. We measure our financial success based on various indicators, including growth in net sales, gross profit as a percentage of net sales, operating income as a percentage of net sales, levels of inventory, and days sales outstanding, or DSOs. In connection with these efforts, we monitor daily and weekly sales and shipment reports. Among the key non-financial indicators of our success is our ability to rapidly introduce new products and deliver the latest application optimized server solutions. In this regard, we work closely with microprocessor and other component vendors to take advantage of new technologies as they are introduced. Historically, our ability to introduce new products rapidly has allowed us to benefit from the introduction of new microprocessors and as a result we monitor the introduction cycles of Intel and AMD carefully. This also impacts our research and development expenditures. For example, our results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 were in part adversely impacted by customer order delays in anticipation of the introduction of the Nehalem line of microprocessors and research and development expenditures necessary for us to prepare for the introduction. Other Financial Highlights The following is a summary of other financial highlights of fiscal year 2010: We generated (used) cash flows from operations of ($2.2) million, $21.8 million and $18.5 million in fiscal year 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $79.4 million at the end of fiscal year 2010, compared with $85.0 million at the end of fiscal year 2009. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of fiscal year 2010 was 30 days, compared with 34 days at the end of fiscal year 2009. Our inventory balance was $135.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2010, compared with $90.0 million at the end of fiscal year 2009. Days sales of inventory (DSI) at the end of fiscal year 2010 was 67 days, compared with 76 days at the end of fiscal year 2009. Our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were $92.1 million at the end of fiscal year 2010 and $52.1 million at the end of fiscal year 2009. In June 2010, the Company used $18.6 million of the revolving line of credit to purchase three buildings in San Jose, California and is required to obtain a mortgage loan to pay-off this line of credit by December 2010. We believe that our cash position, our balance sheet, our visibility into our supply chain and our financing capabilities position us well to manage through the current economic recovery. 38 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal year 2010, for example, refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. Revenues and Expenses Net sales. Net sales consist of sales of our server solutions, including server systems, subsystems and accessories. The main factors which impact our net sales are unit volumes shipped and average selling prices. The prices for server systems range widely depending upon the configuration, and the prices for our subsystems and accessories vary based on the type. As with most electronics-based products, average selling prices typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products which utilize the latest technology and tend to decrease over time as such products mature in the market and are replaced by next generation products. Cost of sales. Cost of sales primarily consists of the costs to manufacture our products, including the costs of materials, contract manufacturing, shipping, personnel and related expenses, equipment and facility expenses, warranty costs and inventory excess and obsolete provisions. The primary factors that impact our cost of sales are the mix of products sold and cost of materials, which include raw material costs, shipping costs and salary and benefits related to production. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales may increase over time if decreases in average selling prices are not offset by corresponding decreases in our costs. Our cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, is generally lower on server systems than on subsystems and accessories. Because we do not have long-term fixed supply agreements, our cost of sales is subject to change based on market conditions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist of the personnel and related expenses of our research and development teams, and materials and supplies, consulting services, third party testing services and equipment and facility expenses related to our research and development activities. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We occasionally receive non-recurring engineering, or NRE funding from certain suppliers and customers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain research and development costs that we incur as part of the joint development of our products and those of our suppliers and customers. These amounts offset a portion of the related research and development expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and commissions for our sales and marketing personnel, costs for tradeshows, independent sales representative fees and marketing programs. From time to time, we receive cooperative marketing funding from certain suppliers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain marketing costs that we incur as part of the joint promotion of our products and those of our suppliers. These amounts offset a portion of the related expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported sales and marketing expenses. Similarly, we from time to time offer our distributors cooperative marketing funding which has the effect of increasing our expenses. The timing, magnitude and estimated usage of our programs and those of our suppliers can result in significant variations in reported sales and marketing expenses from period to period. Spending on cooperative marketing, either by us or our suppliers, typically increases in connection with significant product releases by us or our suppliers. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of general corporate costs, including personnel expenses, financial reporting, corporate governance and compliance and outside legal, audit and tax fees. Provision for litigation loss. Loss from litigation relates to an action filed in France by Digitechnic, S.A., a former customer. The Company entered into a settlement agreement with Digitechnic, pursuant to which the Company made a payment of $1.1 million in December 2009. Interest and other income, net. Interest and other income, net represents the net of our interest income on investments or interest expense on the building loans or letters of credit for our owned facilities offset by interest earned on our cash balances. 39 Table of Contents Income tax provision. Our income tax provision is based on our taxable income generated in the jurisdictions in which we operate, currently primarily the United States and the Netherlands and to a lesser extent, Taiwan. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to releasing of unrecognized tax liability on research and development credits resulting from lapsing statues of limitations, tax benefit of tax exempt interest income, research and development tax credits and the domestic production activities deduction. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts and sales returns, cooperative marketing accruals, investment valuations, inventory valuations, income taxes, warranty obligations and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments we make about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Because these estimates can vary depending on the situation, actual results may differ from the estimates. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies as they require our more significant judgments in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue recognition. We recognize revenue from sales of products, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, shipment has occurred and title has transferred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured, and all significant obligations have been met. Generally this occurs at the time of shipment when risk of loss and title has passed to the customer. Our standard arrangement with our customers includes a signed purchase order or contract, Ex Works shipping point terms, except for a few customers who have free-on-board destination terms, and revenue is recognized when the products arrive at the destination, 30 to 60 days payment terms, and no customer acceptance provisions. We generally do not provide for non-warranty rights of return except for products which have Out-of-box failure, where customers could return these products for credit within 30 days of receiving the items. Certain distributors and OEMs are also permitted to return products in unopened boxes, limited to purchases over a specified period of time, generally within 60 to 90 days of the purchase, or to products in the distributors or OEMs inventory at certain times (such as the termination of the agreement or product obsolescence). In addition, we have a sale arrangement with an OEM that has limited product return rights. To estimate reserves for future sales returns, we regularly review our history of actual returns for each major product line. We also communicate regularly with our distributors to gather information about end customer satisfaction, and to determine the volume of inventory in the channel. Reserves for future returns are adjusted as necessary, based on returns experience, returns expectations and communication with our distributors. Probability of collection is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis. Customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ability to pay. If it is determined from the outset of an arrangement that collection is not probable based upon the review process, the customers are required to pay cash in advance of shipment. We also make estimates of the uncollectibility of accounts receivables, analyzing accounts receivable and historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer-credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in customer payment terms to evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of our reported operating expenses could result. We provide for price protection to certain distributors. We assess the market 40 Table of Contents competition and product technology obsolescence, and make price adjustments based on our judgment. Upon each announcement of price reductions, the accrual for price protection is calculated based on our distributors inventory on hand. Such reserves are recorded as a reduction to revenue at the time we reduce the product prices. We have an immaterial amount of service revenue relating to non-warranty repairs, which is recognized upon shipment of the repaired units to customers. Service revenue has been less than 10% of net sales for all periods presented and is not separately disclosed. Cooperative marketing accruals. We have arrangements with resellers of our products to reimburse the resellers for cooperative marketing costs meeting specified criteria. We accrue the cooperative marketing costs based on these arrangements and our estimate for resellers claims for marketing activities. We record marketing costs meeting such specified criteria within sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. For those marketing costs that do not meet the specified criteria, the amounts are recorded as a reduction to sales in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Impairment of short-term and long-term investments. Impairment of short-term and long-term investments relates to the unrealized loss on the carrying value of our investments in auction rate securities; such securities were rated AAA at the date of purchase. The liquidity and fair value of these securities has been negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the credit markets and exposure of these securities to the financial condition of bond insurance companies. We have received all interest payments due on these instruments on a timely basis. Each of these securities has been subject to auction processes for which there had been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates and the auctions have subsequently failed. When these securities lost the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction processes, we reclassified these securities as long-term investments. For the securities with the stated maturity less than a year, the securities were classified as short-term available-for-sale investments. We have used a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of these investments as of June 30, 2010 and 2009. The material factors used in preparing the discounted cash flow model are 1) the discount rate utilized to present value the cash flows, 2) the time period until redemption and 3) the estimated rate of return. Management derives the estimates by obtaining input from market data on the applicable discount rate, estimated time to maturity and estimated rate of return. The changes in fair value have been primarily due to changes in the estimated rate of return and a change in the estimated period to liquidity. The fair value of our investment portfolio may change between 2% to 3% by increasing or decreasing the rate of return used by 1% or by increasing or decreasing the term used by 1 year. Changes in these estimates or in the market conditions for these investments are likely in the future based upon the then current market conditions for these investments and may affect the fair value of these investments. As of June 30, 2010 and 2009 we have recorded an accumulative unrealized loss of $204,000 and $801,000, net of deferred income taxes, on the securities, respectively. We deem this loss to be temporary as we determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until recovery of cost. Product warranties. We offer product warranties ranging from 15 to 39 months against any defective product. We accrue for estimated returns of defective products at the time revenue is recognized, based on historical warranty experience and recent trends. We monitor warranty obligations and may make revisions to our warranty reserve if actual costs of product repair and replacement are significantly higher or lower than estimated. Accruals for anticipated future warranty costs are charged to cost of sales and included in accrued liabilities. The liability for product warranties was $4.6 million as of June 30, 2010, compared with $3.6 million as of June 30, 2009. The provision for warranty reserve was $8.5 million, $6.7 million and $6.6 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our estimates and assumptions used have been historically close to actual. The change in estimated liability for pre-existing warranties was ($0.9) million, $0.3 million and ($0.1) million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As we experienced an increase in net sales in fiscal year 2010, the provision for warranty reserve increased $1.8 million compared to fiscal year 2009. As we experienced an increase in cost of warranty claims in fiscal year 2009 compared with our historical experience, 41 Table of Contents the provision for warranty reserve increased $0.1 million compared to fiscal year 2008. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, we intend to adjust our estimates appropriately. Inventory valuation. Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We evaluate inventory on a quarterly basis for lower of cost or market and excess and obsolescence and, as necessary, write down the valuation of units to lower of cost or market or for excess and obsolescence based upon the number of units that are unlikely to be sold based upon estimated demand for the following twelve months. This evaluation takes into account matters including expected demand, anticipated sales price, product obsolescence and other factors. If actual future demand for our products is less than currently forecasted, additional inventory adjustments may be required. Once a reserve is established, it is maintained until the product to which it relates is sold or scrapped. If a unit that has been written down is subsequently sold, the cost associated with the revenue from this unit is reduced to the extent of the write down, resulting in an increase in gross profit. We monitor the extent to which previously written down inventory is sold at amounts greater or less than carrying value, and based on this analysis, adjust our estimate for determining future write downs. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate a change in recovery rate compared with our historical experience, our gross margin would be affected. Our provision for inventory was $2.6 million, $1.5 million and $6.9 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Accounting for income taxes. We account for income taxes under an asset and liability approach. Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for income tax reporting purposes, net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax credits measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are provided when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We recognize the tax liability for uncertain income tax positions on the income tax return based on the two-step process. The first step is to determine whether it is more likely than not that each income tax position would be sustained upon audit. The second step is to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority. Estimating these amounts requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on the consideration of several factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in applicable tax law, settlement of issues under audit and new exposures. If we later determine that our exposure is lower or that the liability is not sufficient to cover our revised expectations, we adjust the liability and effect a related change in our tax provision during the period in which we make such determination. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact on our consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation. Effective July 1, 2006, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. Prior to July 1, 2006, we have recorded compensation expense for stock options with exercise prices less than the fair value of the underlying common stock at the option grant date. Amortization of deferred stock compensation, resulting from such stock options granted to employees and directors, when the exercise price of our stock options was less than the deemed market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant, for the years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $0.1 million, $0.6 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Since July 1, 2006, the Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, including stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, known as the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). Compensation expense for options granted to employees after July 1, 2006, was $6.3 million, $5.1 million and $3.4 million for the years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 42 Table of Contents As of June 30, 2010, the total unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to unvested stock options granted since July 1, 2006 to employees and non-employee directors, was $13.9 million, which is expected to be recognized as an expense over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5 years. See Note 11 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We estimated the fair value of stock options granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and a single option award approach. This model requires us to make estimates and assumptions with respect to the expected term of the option, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock and the expected forfeiture rate. The fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding and was determined based on an analysis of the relevant peer companies post-vest termination rates and exercise behavior. The expected volatility is based on a combination of the implied and historical volatility of our relevant peer group for the stock options granted prior to September 30, 2009. For stock options granted after September 30, 2009, expected volatility is based solely on our historical volatility. In addition, forfeitures of share-based awards are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. Variable interest entities. We have analyzed our relationship with Ablecom and its subsidiaries and we have concluded that Ablecom is a variable interest entity in accordance with applicable accounting standards and guidance; however, we are not the primary beneficiary of Ablecom and therefore, we do not consolidate Ablecom. In performing our analysis, we considered our explicit arrangements with Ablecom including the supplier and distributor arrangements. Also, as a result of the substantial related party relationship between the two companies, we considered whether any implicit arrangements exist that would cause us to protect those related parties interests in Ablecom from suffering losses. We determined that no implicit arrangements exist with Ablecom or its shareholders. Such an arrangement would be inconsistent with the fiduciary duty that we have towards our stockholders who do not own shares in Ablecom. In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009 and interim periods therein and thereafter. The new guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. We are still evaluating the impact, if any, that the adoption of this standard may have on our financial position or results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our financial results, as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Years Ended June 30, 2010 2009 2008 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 84.1 82.5 80.8 Gross profit 15.9 17.5 19.2 Operating expenses: Research and development 5.2 6.8 5.6 Sales and marketing 2.8 3.4 3.4 General and administrative 2.1 2.7 2.7 Provision for litigation loss 0.2 0.0 0.0 Total operating expenses 10.3 12.9 11.7 Income from operations 5.6 4.6 7.5 Interest and other income, net 0.0 0.1 0.2 Interest expense (0.0 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Income before income tax provision 5.6 4.5 7.5 Income tax provision 1.9 1.3 2.8 Net income 3.7 % 3.2 % 4.7 % Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 Net sales. Net sales increased by $215.8 million, or 42.7%, to $721.4 million from $505.6 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase was due primarily to an increase in unit volumes of subsystems and accessories and average selling prices of server systems. For fiscal year 2010, the number of units sold increased 54.4% to 3.4 million compared to 2.2 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase in unit volumes was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes of system accessories. For fiscal year 2010, the number of server system units sold increased 12.1% to 176,000 compared to 157,000 for fiscal year 2009. The average selling price of server system units increased 12.0% to $1,400 in fiscal year 2010 compared to $1,250 in fiscal year 2009. The average selling prices of our server systems increased principally due to higher average selling prices of our 6000 Series configuration of servers which incorporated additional features offset in part by declines in average selling prices of more mature products. Sales of server systems increased by $48.6 million or 24.7% from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to higher sales of our 6000 Series configuration of servers and higher sales to system integrators offset in part by lower sales of more mature products. Sales of server systems represented 34.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010 compared to 38.9% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010, the number of subsystems and accessories units sold increased 57.6% to 3.3 million compared to 2.1 million for fiscal year 2009. Sales of subsystems and accessories increased by $167.3 million or 54.1% from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to higher sales to distributors, resellers and system integrators who increasingly are purchasing additional accessories from us and completing the final assembly themselves. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 66.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010 as compared to 61.1% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010 and 2009, we derived 66.7% and 64.9%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived 33.3% and 35.1%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For fiscal year 2010, customers in the United States, Europe and Asia accounted for 60.1%, 21.7% and 14.8%, of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 64.4%, 21.5% and 11.2%, respectively, for fiscal year 2009. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $189.5 million, or 45.5%, to $606.4 million from $416.9 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 84.1% and 82.5% for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily 44 Table of Contents attributable to the increase in net sales, an increase of $3.3 million in freight-in charges, an increase of $1.8 million in provision for warranty reserve and an increase of $1.2 million in provision for inventory reserve. The higher cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a lower percentage of sales from server systems and a higher percentage of sales of subsystem and accessories and increased sales to distributors, resellers and system integrators. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $8.5 million expense, or 1.2% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $6.7 million, or 1.3% of net sales, in fiscal year 2009. The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher net sales in fiscal year 2010. If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $2.6 million expense, or 0.4% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $1.5 million, or 0.3% of net sales, in fiscal year 2009. The increase in the inventory provision was primarily for older products as a result of product transitions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $2.9 million, or 8.3%, to $37.4 million from $34.5 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Research and development expenses were 5.2% and 6.8% of net sales for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $4.0 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in research and development personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan and a decrease of $0.2 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. This increase was offset in part by a decrease of $1.3 million in development costs associated with new products. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $3.1 million and $2.6 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $3.3 million, or 19.5%, to $20.5 million from $17.1 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 2.8% and 3.4% of net sales for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $2.0 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in sales and marketing personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense, a decrease of $0.4 million in cooperative marketing funding from vendors, an increase of $0.4 million in advertising and promotion expenses and an increase of $0.3 million in trade show expenses. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $0.9 million and $0.8 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.5 million, or 10.8%, to $15.3 million from $13.8 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. General and administrative expenses were 2.1% and 2.7% of net sales for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense, in part to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan and an increase of $0.5 million in bad debt expenses. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $1.9 million and $1.6 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Provision for litigation loss. Loss from litigation increased to $1.1 million from $0, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase was due to a settlement payment related to the Digitechnic lawsuit. (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense was reduced by $0.2 million, to $0.3 million of expense from $0.5 million of expense, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $0.4 million and 45 Table of Contents $0.9 million was interest expense for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The net change was due to lower interest income of $0.4 million resulting from lower interest rates and lower interest expense of $0.5 million as the Company paid off two outstanding building loans in July and August 2009. We expect the interest expenses will increase in the future as we have borrowed $18.6 million to purchase properties in San Jose, California in June 2010 and intend to obtain additional financing to purchase land and to fund building construction in Taiwan in fiscal year 2011. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased by $6.9 million, or 102.5%, to $13.6 million from $6.7 million, for the fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate was 33.5% and 29.4% for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the expiration of the federal research and development tax credit in fiscal year 2010. Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 Net sales. Net sales decreased by $34.9 million, or 6.5%, to $505.6 million from $540.5 million, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. This decrease was due primarily to a decrease in unit volumes. For fiscal year 2009, the approximate number of units sold decreased 15.4% to 2.2 million compared to 2.6 million for fiscal year 2008. The decrease in unit volumes was primarily due to a decrease in unit volumes of chassis, serverboards and server systems offset in part by an increase in unit volumes of system accessories. For fiscal year 2009, the approximate number of server system units sold decreased 7.1% to 157,000 compared to 169,000 for fiscal year 2008. The average selling price of server system units was approximately $1,250 for fiscal year 2009 compared to $1,200 for fiscal year 2008. Growth in the average selling prices of our server systems was principally driven by an increase in average selling prices of OEM and bundled server solutions offset in part by declines in average selling prices of 5000 Series configurations of servers, SuperBlades, 7000 Series configurations of servers and AMD servers. Sales of server systems decreased by $12.5 million or 6.0% from fiscal year 2008 to fiscal year 2009, primarily due to lower sales of 6000 and 5000 Series configuration of servers offset in part by higher sales of our OEM and bundled server solutions utilizing our high efficiency power supplies and higher sales of SuperBlades. Sales of server systems represented 38.9% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009 as compared to 38.7% of our net sales for fiscal year 2008. For fiscal year 2009, the approximate number of subsystems and accessories units sold decreased 16.6% to 2.1 million compared to 2.5 million for fiscal year 2008. Sales of subsystems and accessories decreased by $22.4 million or 6.8% from fiscal year 2008 to fiscal year 2009. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 61.1% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009 as compared to 61.3% of our net sales for fiscal year 2008. We believe that the decline in our net sales in fiscal year 2009 was primarily attributable to reductions in information technology spending in response to the global economic downturn and to a lesser extent was impacted by delayed customer orders in anticipation of the release by Intel of its Nehalem line of microprocessors which were launched at the end of March 31, 2009. For fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we derived 64.9% and 59.9%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived 35.1% and 40.1%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For fiscal year 2009, customers in the United States, Asia, Germany and the rest of Europe accounted for 64.4%, 11.2%, 5.1% and 16.4%, of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 60.4%, 15.2%, 5.5% and 17.0%, respectively, for fiscal year 2008. Cost of sales. Cost of sales decreased by $20.1 million, or 4.6%, to $416.9 million from $437.0 million, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 82.5% and 80.8% for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily attributable to the decrease in net sales and a decrease of $5.4 million in inventory provision, a decrease of $3.4 million in freight-in charges offset in part by an increase of $0.1 million in provision for warranty reserve. The higher cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a decrease in standard gross margin as a result of lower margins across our product lines due to competitive pricing pressures and our strategy to grow market share during the economic downturn combined with lower prices for our maturing product line in advance of the Intel Nehalem launch. In fiscal year 2009, we recorded a $6.7 million expense, or 1.3% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $6.6 million, or 1.2% of net sales, in fiscal year 2008. The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher repair costs in fiscal 46 Table of Contents year 2009. If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In fiscal year 2009, we recorded a $1.5 million expense, or 0.3% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $6.9 million, or 1.3% of net sales, in fiscal year 2008. The decrease in the inventory provision was primarily due to the improvement of our inventory management to reduce excess and slow moving inventory through product conversion and increasing sales efforts. In fiscal year 2009, the historical analysis of sales of previously written down inventory was such that we decreased our estimate for reserving excess and obsolete inventory. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate a change in recovery rate compared with our historical experience, our gross margin would be affected. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $4.0 million, or 13.0%, to $34.5 million from $30.5 million for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. Research and development expenses were 6.8% of net sales for fiscal year 2009 and 5.6% of net sales for fiscal year 2008. The increase in absolute dollars and percentage of sales was primarily due to an increase of $4.8 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in research and development personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense offset in part by an increase of $0.9 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $2.6 million and $1.8 million for fiscal year 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to the growth in research and development personnel. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $1.1 million, or 5.9%, to $17.1 million from $18.2 million, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 3.4% of net sales for both fiscal years 2009 and 2008. The decrease in absolute dollars was primarily due to a decrease of $1.1 million in cooperative marketing funding to customers and a decrease of $0.3 million in compensation and benefits offset in part by a decrease of $0.3 million in cooperative marketing funding from vendors. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $0.8 million and $0.6 million for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased by $0.7 million, or 5.0%, to $13.8 million from $14.6 million, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. General and administrative expenses were 2.7% of net sales for both fiscal years 2009 and 2008. The decrease in absolute dollars was primarily due to a decrease of $1.2 million in consulting fees related to Sarbanes-Oxley 404 (SOX) compliance and a decrease of $0.6 million in accrued claims related to a settlement offer of licensing fees offset in part by an increase of $0.9 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense and an increase of $0.2 million in legal expenses. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $1.6 million and $1.2 million for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense, net changed by $1.0 million, to $0.5 million of expense from $0.5 million of income, for fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, respectively, of which $0.9 million and $1.0 million was interest expense for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. The net change was due to lower interest income of $1.1 million resulting from lower interest rates. We expect the interest expenses will decrease in the future as we paid off our outstanding building loans in July and August 2009. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes decreased by $8.7 million, or 56.5%, to $6.7 million from $15.4 million, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective tax rate was 29.4% and 37.7% for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily the result of the reinstatement of the federal research and development tax credit and the release of an unrecognized tax liability on research and development credits of $0.7 million resulting from lapsing statues of limitations in fiscal year 2009. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have financed our growth primarily with funds generated from operations and from the proceeds of our initial public offering. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were $73.5 million and $70.6 million as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating Activities. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was ($2.2) million, $21.8 million and $18.5 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net cash used in our operating activities for fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to our net income of $26.9 million, an increase in accounts payable of $21.8 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $9.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $6.5 million, an increase in accrued liabilities of $5.5 million and allowance for sales returns of $5.3 million which were offset by an increase in inventory of $48.2 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $33.3 million. Net cash provided by our operating activities for fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to our net income of $16.1 million, stock-based compensation expense of $5.7 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $4.8 million and allowance for sales returns of $4.2 million which was substantially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $6.9 million and an increase in inventory of $5.8 million. Net cash provided by our operating activities for fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to our net income of $25.4 million, an increase in accounts payable of $18.6 million, provision for inventory of $6.9 million, allowance for sales returns of $5.6 million and stock-based compensation expense of $4.2 million which was substantially offset by an increase in inventory of $25.8 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $22.0 million. The increase for fiscal year 2010 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales during fiscal year 2010. The increase for fiscal year 2010 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy and to support the growth of the Company. We anticipate that accounts receivable, sales returns, inventory and accounts payable will continue to increase to the extent we continue to grow our product lines and our business. The decrease for fiscal year 2009 in sales returns was primarily due to lower net sales during fiscal year 2009 as a result of reductions in information technology spending in response to the global economic downturn and to a lesser extent was impacted by delayed customer orders in anticipation of the release by Intel of its Nehalem line of microprocessors in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The decrease for fiscal year 2009 in accounts payable was primarily due to timing of payments to our vendors. The increase for fiscal year 2009 in inventory was primarily due to our increased purchases of X8 Nehalem products which were launched at the end of March 31, 2009. The increases for fiscal years 2008 in accounts receivable, sales returns, inventory and accounts payable were primarily due to growth in net sales during the periods as a result of new product introductions, increased sales of existing rackmount and blade server systems and server accessories and increased purchases from our suppliers. Investing activities . Net cash used in our investing activities was ($11.8) million, ($2.7) million and ($19.6) million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In fiscal year 2010, $22.2 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment offset in part by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $8.9 million. In fiscal year 2009, $3.6 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment offset in part by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $0.9 million. In fiscal year 2008, $22.5 million was mainly related to the purchase of investments in auction rate securities, $16.1 million due to the purchase of property, plant and equipment which included $11.3 million related to the purchased of land and an office building to support our growth and $1.7 million was mainly related to certificates of deposits secured for two irrevocable letters of credit for the bonds related to the Digitechnic case and a leased building, offset in part by the proceeds from investments of $20.6 million. We have historically owned our manufacturing facilities and have leased off-shore offices. We plan to purchase land in Taiwan in fiscal year 2011 and develop the land for manufacturing and service operations through fiscal year 2012. We plan to finance the purchase and the development through operating cash flows and additional financing from banks. 48 Table of Contents The expansion of our manufacturing capability has to date not been capital intensive as our internal manufacturing is limited to assembly and test. We expect to continue to make significant capital investments in the future as we expand our assembly and test capabilities and invest in our infrastructure in order to improve our