Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. While we attempt to assist our distributors in maintaining targeted stocking level of our products, we may not consistently be accurate or successful. This process involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties including end customer demand. Our distributors also have various rights to return products which could, among other things, result in our having to repurchase inventory which has declined in value or is obsolete. Consequently, actual results could differ from our estimates. Inventory levels of our products held by our distributors may exceed or fall below the levels we consider desirable on a going-forward basis. This could adversely affect our distributors or our ability to efficiently manage or invest in internal resources, such as manufacturing and shipping capacity, to meet the demand for our products. Any failure to adequately expand or retain our sales force will impede our growth. Though we expect to continue to rely primarily on third party distributors to sell our server solutions, we expect that, over time, our direct sales force will grow. Competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need is intense. Our ability to grow our revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, retaining and successfully managing sufficient qualified direct sales personnel. We have traditionally experienced greater turnover in our sales and marketing personnel as compared to other departments. New hires require significant training and may take six months or longer before they reach full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. If we are unable to hire, develop and retain sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, sales of our server solutions will suffer. Our direct sales efforts may create confusion for our end customers and harm our relationships with our distributors and OEMs. Though our direct sales efforts have historically been limited and focused on customers who typically do not buy from distributors or OEMs, we expect our direct sales force to grow as our business grows. As our direct sales force becomes larger, our direct sales efforts may lead to conflicts with our distributors and OEMs, who may view our direct sales efforts as undermining their efforts to sell our products. If a distributor or OEM deems our direct sales efforts to be inappropriate, the distributor or OEM may not effectively market our products, may emphasize alternative products from competitors, or may seek to terminate our business relationship. Disruptions in our distribution channels could cause our revenues to decrease or fail to grow as expected. Our failure to implement an effective direct sales strategy that maintains and expands our relationships with our distributors and OEMs could lead to a decline in sales and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are required to change the timing of our revenue recognition, our net sales and net income could decrease. We currently record revenue based upon a sell-in model with revenues generally recorded upon shipment of products to our distributors. This is in contrast to a sell-through model pursuant to which revenues are generally recognized upon sale of products by distributors to their customers. This requires that we maintain a reserve to cover the estimated costs of any returns or exercises of stock rotation rights, which we estimate primarily based on our historical experience. If facts and circumstances change such that the rate of returns of our products exceeds our historical experience, we may have to increase our reserve, which, in turn, would cause our revenue to decline. Similarly, if facts and circumstances change such that we are no longer able to determine reasonable estimates of our sales returns, we would be required to defer our revenue recognition until the point of sale from the distributors to their customers. Any such change may negatively impact our net sales or net income for particular periods and cause a decline in our stock price. For additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. 22 Table of Contents The average selling prices for our existing server solutions are subject to decline if customers do not continue to purchase our latest generation products, which could harm our results of operations. As with most electronics based products, average selling prices of servers typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products, which utilize the latest technology, and tend to decrease over time as such products become commoditized and are ultimately replaced by even newer generation products. As our business continues to grow, we may increasingly be subject to this industry risk. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any decline in the average selling prices of our server solutions that we may experience in the future. In some instances, our agreements with our distributors limit our ability to reduce prices unless we make such price reductions available to them, or price protect their inventory. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs faster than the rate at which average selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Our cost structure and ability to deliver server solutions to customers in a timely manner may be adversely affected by volatility of the market for core components and materials for our products. Prices of materials and core components utilized in the manufacture of our server solutions, such as serverboards, chassis, central processing units, or CPUs, memory and hard drives represent a significant portion of our cost of sales. We generally do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and core components, but instead purchase these materials and components on a purchase order basis. Prices of these core components and materials are volatile, and, as a result, it is difficult to predict expense levels and operating results. In addition, if our business growth renders it necessary or appropriate to transition to longer term contracts with materials and core component suppliers, our costs may increase and our gross margins could correspondingly decrease. Because we often acquire materials and core components on an as needed basis, we may be limited in our ability to effectively and efficiently respond to customer orders because of the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of materials and core components. Our industry has experienced materials shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical materials in the future. From time to time, we have been forced to delay the introduction of certain of our products or the fulfillment of customer orders as a result of shortages of materials and core components. For example, we were unable to fulfill certain orders at the end of the quarter ended June 30, 2010 due to component shortages. If shortages or delays arise, the prices of these materials and core components may increase or the materials and core components may not be available at all. In addition, in the event of shortages, some of our larger competitors may have greater abilities to obtain materials and core components due to their larger purchasing power. We may not be able to secure enough core components or materials at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. In order to address market volatility, we from time to make larger investments in material and component inventory. Such investments expose us to risk for lower margins or loss on disposal of such inventory if your expectations of customer demand are incorrect and the market price of the material or component inventory decline. We may lose sales or incur unexpected expenses relating to insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory. As a result of our strategy to provide greater choice and customization of our products to our customers, we are required to maintain a high level of inventory. If we fail to maintain sufficient inventory, we may not be able to meet demand for our products on a timely basis, and our sales may suffer. If we overestimate customer demand for our products, we could experience excess inventory of our products and be unable to sell those products at a reasonable price, or at all. As a result, we may need to record higher inventory reserves. If we are later able to sell such products at a profit, it may increase the quarterly variances in our operating results. Additionally, the rapid pace of innovation in our industry could render significant portions of our existing inventory obsolete. Certain of our distributors and OEMs have rights to return products, limited to purchases over 23 Table of Contents a specified period of time, generally within 60 to 90 days of the purchase, or to products in the distributors or OEMs inventory at certain times, such as termination of the agreement or product obsolescence. Any returns under these arrangements could result in additional obsolete inventory. In addition, server systems, subsystems and accessories that have been customized and later returned by those of our customers and partners who have return rights or stock rotation rights may be unusable for other purposes or may require reformation at additional cost to be made ready for sale to other customers. Excess or obsolete inventory levels for these or other reasons could result in unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves against potential future charges which would adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded inventory write-downs charged to cost of sales of $3.4 million, $2.6 million and $1.5 million, for excess and obsolete inventory. For additional information regarding customer return rights, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting PoliciesRevenue Recognition. Our focus on internal development and customizable server solutions could delay our introduction of new products and result in increased costs. Our strategy is to rely to a significant degree on internally developed components, even when third party components may be available. We believe this allows us to develop products with a greater range of features and functionality and allows us to develop solutions that are more customized to customer needs. However, if not properly managed, this reliance on internally developed components may be more costly than use of third party components, thereby making our products less price competitive or reducing our margins. In addition, our reliance on internal development may lead to delays in the introduction of new products and impair our ability to introduce products rapidly to market. We may also experience increases in our inventory costs and obsolete inventory, thereby reducing our margins. Our research and development expenditures, as a percentage of our net sales, are considerably higher than many of our competitors and our earnings will depend upon maintaining revenues and margins that offset these expenditures. Our strategy is to focus on being consistently rapid-to-market with flexible and customizable server systems that take advantage of our own internal development and the latest technologies offered by microprocessor manufacturers and other component vendors. Consistent with this strategy, we spend higher amounts, as a percentage of revenues, on research and development costs than many of our competitors. If we can not sell our products in sufficient volume and with adequate gross margins to compensate for such investment in research and development, our earnings may be materially and adversely affected. If our limited number of contract manufacturers or suppliers of materials and core components fail to meet our requirements, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which could decrease our revenues and earnings. We purchase many sophisticated materials and core components from one or a limited number of qualified suppliers and rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to provide value added design, manufacturing, assembly and test services. We generally do not have long-term agreements with these vendors, and instead obtain key materials and services through purchase order arrangements. We have no contractual assurances from any contract manufacturer that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. Consequently, we are vulnerable to any disruptions in supply with respect to the materials and core components provided by limited-source suppliers, and we are at risk of being harmed by discontinuations of design, manufacturing, assembly or testing services from our contract manufacturers. We have occasionally experienced delivery delays from our suppliers and contract manufacturers because of high industry demand or because of inability to meet our quality or delivery requirements. For example, in the past we experienced delays in the delivery of printed circuit board material as a result of the loss of two of our five printer circuit board 24 Table of Contents vendors. One of the vendors filed for bankruptcy and the other changed its business model and ceased supplying us. The delays in delivery of the materials resulted in a reduction of net sales for the quarter of approximately two to three million dollars. If our relationships with our suppliers and contract manufactures are negatively impacted by late payments or other issues, we may not receive timely delivery of materials and core components. If we were to lose any of our current supply or contract manufacturing relationships, the process of identifying and qualifying a new supplier or contract manufacturer who will meet our quality and delivery requirements, and who will appropriately safeguard our intellectual property, may require a significant investment of time and resources, adversely affecting our ability to satisfy customer purchase orders and delaying our ability to rapidly introduce new products to market. Similarly, if any of our suppliers were to cancel or materially change contracts or commitments to us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer demand for our products, our reputation and relationships with customers could be damaged. We could lose orders, be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenues, margins and earnings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan has disrupted the global supply chain for components manufactured in Japan, some of which are incorporated in our products or included in the end user products of our customers. Due to cross dependencies, supply chain disruptions stemming from the occurrences in Japan could negatively impact the demand for our products or our ability to supply products, including, for example, if we are unable to obtain sufficient supply of our components required for our products or our customers are unable to obtain sufficient supply of other components required for their end products. While we have increased our inventory to reduce risk of supply chain disruption we cannot assure that our ability to obtain components on a timely basis will not be adversely impacted. Our failure to deliver high quality server solutions could damage our reputation and diminish demand for our products. Our server solutions are critical to our customers business operations. Our customers require our server solutions to perform at a high level, contain valuable features and be extremely reliable. The design of our server solutions is sophisticated and complex, and the process for manufacturing, assembling and testing our server solutions is challenging. Occasionally, our design or manufacturing processes may fail to deliver products of the quality that our customers require. For example, in the past a vendor provided us with a defective capacitor that failed under certain heavy use applications. As a result, our product needed to be repaired. Though the vendor agreed to pay for a large percentage of the costs of the repairs, we incurred costs in connection with the recall and diverted resources from other projects. New flaws or limitations in our server solutions may be detected in the future. Part of our strategy is to bring new products to market quickly, and first-generation products may have a higher likelihood of containing undetected flaws. If our customers discover defects or other performance problems with our products, our customers businesses, and our reputation, may be damaged. Customers may elect to delay or withhold payment for defective or underperforming server solutions, request remedial action, terminate contracts for untimely delivery, or elect not to order additional server solutions, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or subject us to the expense and risk of litigation. We may incur expense in recalling, refurbishing or repairing defective server solutions. If we do not properly address customer concerns about our products, our reputation and relationships with our customers may be harmed. For all of these reasons, customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products could substantially impair our ability to grow our business. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Ablecom Technology Inc., one of our major contract manufacturers, and those conflicts may adversely affect our operations. We use Ablecom, a related party, for contract design and manufacturing coordination support. We work with Ablecom to optimize modular designs for our chassis and certain of other components. Our purchases from 25 Table of Contents Ablecom represented 19.6%, 20.5% and 22.1% of our cost of sales for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. Ablecom is a privately-held Taiwan-based company. Steve Liang, Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer and largest shareholder, is the brother of Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Charles Liang, and his spouse, Chiu-Chu (Sara) Liu Liang, our Vice President of Operations, Treasurer and director, jointly own 10.5% of Ablecoms outstanding common stock. Mr. Charles Liang, Ms. Liang, Mr. Steve Liang and relatives of these individuals own 46.4% of Ablecoms outstanding common stock. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Liang, as directors, officers and significant stockholders of the Company, have considerable influence over the management of our business relationships. Accordingly, we may be disadvantaged by their economic interests as stockholders of Ablecom and their personal relationship with Ablecoms Chief Executive Officer. We may not negotiate or enforce contractual terms as aggressively with Ablecom as we might with an unrelated party, and the commercial terms of our agreements may be less favorable than we might obtain in negotiations with third parties. If our business dealings with Ablecom are not as favorable to us as arms-length transactions, our results of operations may be harmed. If Steve Liang ceases to have significant influence over Ablecom, or if those of our stockholders who hold shares of Ablecom cease to have a significant amount of the outstanding shares of Ablecom, the terms and conditions of our agreements with Ablecom may not be as favorable as those in our existing contracts. As a result, our costs could increase and adversely affect our margins and results of operations. Our relationship with Ablecom may allow us to benefit from favorable pricing which may result in reported results more favorable than we might report in the absence of our relationship. Although we generally re-negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis, pursuant to our agreements with Ablecom either party may re-negotiate the price of products for each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. Our reliance on Ablecom could be subject to risks associated with our reliance on a limited source of contract manufacturing services and inventory warehousing. We continue to maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia. In order to provide a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom will continue to warehouse for us an increasing number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the U.S. and Europe. We also anticipate that we will continue to lease office space from Ablecom in Taiwan to support the research and development efforts we are undertaking. If we or Ablecom fail to manage the contract manufacturing services and warehouse operations in Asia, we may experience delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Similarly, if Ablecoms facility in Asia is subject to damage, destruction or other disruptions, our inventory may be damaged or destroyed, and we may be unable to find adequate alternative providers of contract manufacturing services in the time that we or our customers require. We could lose orders and be unable to develop or sell some products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all. Currently, we purchase contract manufacturing services primarily for our chassis and power supply products from Ablecom. If our commercial relationship with Ablecom were to deteriorate or terminate, establishing direct relationships with those entities supplying Ablecom with key materials for our products or identifying and negotiating agreements with alternative providers of warehouse and contract manufacturing services might take a 26 Table of Contents considerable amount of time and require a significant investment of resources. Pursuant to our agreements with Ablecom and subject to certain exceptions, Ablecom has the exclusive right to be our supplier of the specific products developed under such agreements. As a result, if we are unable to obtain such products from Ablecom on terms acceptable to us, we may need to identify a new supplier, change our design and acquire new tooling, all of which could result in delays in our product availability and increased costs. If we need to use other suppliers, we may not be able to establish business arrangements that are, individually or in the aggregate, as favorable as the terms and conditions we have established with Ablecom. If any of these things should occur, our net sales, margins and earnings could significantly decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our growth into markets outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We market and sell our systems and components both domestically and outside the United States. We intend to expand our international sales efforts, especially into Asia and are expanding our business operations in Europe and Asia, particularly in the Netherlands, Taiwan and China. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; localization of our systems and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; foreign currency fluctuations; limited visibility into sales of our products by our distributors; laws favoring local competitors; weaker legal protections of intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the U.S., such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers councils and labor unions; and changing regional economic and political conditions. These factors could limit our future international sales or otherwise adversely impact our operations. We have in the past entered into plea and settlement agreements with the government relating to violations of export control and related laws; if we fail to comply with laws and regulations restricting dealings with sanctioned countries, we may be subject to future civil or criminal penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or ability to do business outside the U.S. In 2006, we entered into certain plea and settlement agreement with government agencies relating to export control and related law violations for activities that occurred in the 2001 to 2003 timeframe. We believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable export related laws and regulations. However, if our export compliance program is not effective, or if we are subject to any future claims regarding violation of export control and economic sanctions laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could lead to a material fine or other sanctions, including loss of export privileges, that may have a material adverse effect 27 Table of Contents on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. In addition, these plea and settlement agreements and any future violations could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell our products to U.S. federal, state and local government and related entities. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and technical know-how could impair our brand and our competitiveness. Our ability to prevent competitors from gaining access to our technology is essential to our success. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may lose an important advantage in the markets in which we compete. Trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as our internal confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions are the core of our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation, and we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. Such administrative proceedings and litigation are inherently uncertain and divert resources that could be put towards other business priorities. We may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome and may spend considerable resources in our efforts to defend and protect our intellectual property. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Resolution of claims that we have violated or may violate the intellectual property rights of others could require us to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors, redesign our products, or pay significant royalties to third parties, and materially harm our business. Our industry is marked by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate third parties intellectual property rights. In addition, increasingly non-operating companies are purchasing patents and bringing claims against technology companies. We settled one claim in fiscal year 2011. Successful intellectual property claims against us from others could result in significant financial liability or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business as we currently conduct it or as we may later conduct it. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our technology, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights, and to indemnify our customers, resellers or vendors. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against, and divert the attention of our technical and management resources. If we lose Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, or any other key employee or are unable to attract additional key employees, we may not be able to implement our business strategy in a timely manner. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. In particular, Charles Liang, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the 28 Table of Contents Board, is critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our culture and our strategic direction. Mr. Liang co-founded our company and has been our Chief Executive Officer since our inception. His experience in running our business and his personal involvement in key relationships with suppliers, customers and strategic partners are extremely valuable to our company. We currently do not have a succession plan for the replacement of Mr. Liang if it were to become necessary. Additionally, we are particularly dependent on the continued service of our existing research and development personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies. Our employment arrangements with our executives and employees do not require them to provide services to us for any specific length of time, and they can terminate their employment with us at any time, with or without notice, without penalty. The loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other key members of our team could seriously harm our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract additional highly qualified personnel, including additional engineers and executive staff. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, especially in San Jose, where we are headquartered. We have experienced in the past and may continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, we are currently working to add personnel in our finance, accounting and general administration departments, which have historically had limited budgets and staffing. If we are unable to attract and integrate additional key employees in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, or if we do not maintain competitive compensation policies to retain our employees, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited. Backlog does not provide a substantial portion of our net sales in any quarter. Our net sales are difficult to forecast because we do not have sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly net sales targets at the beginning of a quarter. Rather, a majority of our net sales in any quarter depend upon customer orders that we receive and fulfill in that quarter. Because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future net sales and to a large extent are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust spending in time to compensate for any shortfall in net sales. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations would harm our operating results. Our business and operations are especially subject to the risks of earthquakes other natural catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, including our most significant research and development and manufacturing operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. We do not currently have a comprehensive disaster recovery program and as a result, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we are in the process of preparing such a program, there is no assurance that it will be effective in the event of such a disaster. We invest in auction rate securities that are subject to market risk and the recent problems in the financial markets could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our assets. As of June 30, 2011, we held $5.2 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; such auction rate securities were rated AAA or BAA at June 30, 2011. These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and the stated maturity dates for these auction rate student loans range from 2035 to 2040. Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2011, we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. 29 Table of Contents Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to June 30, 2011, as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to June 30, 2011 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. As a result, our efforts to comply with Section 404 have required the commitment of significant managerial and financial resources. As we are committed to maintaining high standards of public disclosure, our efforts to comply with Section 404 are ongoing, and we are continuously in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting, which will result in continued commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Although we strive to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to prevent and detect material misstatements in our annual and quarterly financial statements and prevent fraud, we cannot assure that such efforts will be effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our operating results, financial position and stock price could be adversely affected. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and toxic materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes, we could be subject to fines, costs, or civil or criminal sanctions, face third party property damage or personal injury claims or be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, which could be material, or experience disruptions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, environmental laws could become more stringent over time imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances applicable to specified electronic products placed on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the RoHS Directive). We are also subject to laws and regulations such as Californias Proposition 65 which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the State of California to be dangerous, such as lead. We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, and could require that we change the design and/or manufacturing of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, and you might not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased the shares. The trading prices of technology company securities historically have been highly volatile and the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors, in addition to those outlined elsewhere in this filing, that may affect the trading price of our common stock include: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; the loss of a key customer; the loss of key personnel; technological advancements rendering our products less valuable; lawsuits filed against us; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other companies that sell similar products; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. Attempts by existing stockholders to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline significantly. As of June 30, 2011, we had 40.7 million shares of common stock outstanding, net of treasury stock. All of these shares are eligible for sale in the public market, including 11.6 million shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, which are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, 10.5 million shares subject to outstanding options and reserved for future issuance under our stock option plans are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. If an industry analyst decides not to cover our company, or if an industry analyst decides to cease covering our company at some point in the future, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. If an industry analyst downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. 31 Table of Contents The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of August 22, 2011, our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially owned 32.8 percent of our common stock, net of treasury stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporations voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those stockholders desire. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 32 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Our principal executive offices, research and development center and production operations are located in San Jose, California where we own approximately 518,000 square feet of office and manufacturing space subject to existing mortgage loan and line of credit with $18.3 million remaining outstanding as of June 30, 2011. In fiscal year 2008, we began leasing approximately 246,000 square feet of warehouse in Fremont, California under a lease that expires in 2015. Our European headquarters for manufacturing and service operations is located in Denbosch, the Netherlands where we lease approximately 58,000 square feet of office space under four leases, two of which expire in 2011 and two expire in 2016. In Asia, our research and development center, manufacturing and service operations are located in an approximately 102,000 square feet facility in Taipei and Taoyuan County, Taiwan under seven leases that expire at various dates through 2012. We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. In August 2010, we purchased land in Taiwan, consisting of approximately 4.7 acres. The purchase price was $6.1 million. In March 2011, we drew an additional $9.9 million of the line of credit to pay $9.2 million for a deposit to purchase 2.2 acres of land in Taiwan that is adjacent to the land that was purchased in August 2010. The anticipated purchase cost of this land ranges from $5.0 million to $9.2 million and the title to the land is expected to transfer in the first half of fiscal year 2012. As the total purchase cost of the land is not known at this time, the difference between the purchase cost and the land deposit will be refunded when the title transfers to us. The construction of the Taiwan facilities and the headquarters office expansion in San Jose, California began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 and will continue through fiscal year 2012. The anticipated costs for the next twelve months to build the Taiwan facilities and the headquarters office expansion in San Jose, California are approximately $16.9 million. We plan to finance the purchase and the development through operating cash flows and additional financing from banks. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be involved in various legal proceedings arising from the normal course of business activities. In our opinion, resolution of these and the above matters is not expected to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or our financial position. However, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially affect our future results of operations, cash flows or financial position in a particular period. Item 4. Reserved 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock has been traded on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol SMCI since our initial public offering on March 28, 2007. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported by The Nasdaq Global Market. High Low Fiscal Year 2010: First Quarter $ 8.84 $ 7.09 Second Quarter $ 11.45 $ 7.56 Third Quarter $ 17.84 $ 11.27 Fourth Quarter $ 18.89 $ 12.01 High Low Fiscal Year 2011: First Quarter $ 15.48 $ 8.63 Second Quarter $ 11.98 $ 10.18 Third Quarter $ 16.04 $ 11.65 Fourth Quarter $ 18.99 $ 15.30 Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Holders The last reported sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market on August 22, 2011 was $13.08 per share. There were 40 registered stockholders of record of our common stock on August 22, 2011. Because most of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders. Equity Compensation Plan Please see Part III, Item 12 of this report for disclosure relating to our equity compensation plans. 34 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock between March 29, 2007 (the date of our initial public offering) and June 30, 2011 with the cumulative return of the Nasdaq Computer Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index, which both include our common stock, for the comparable period. The graph reflects an investment of $100 in our common stock, the Nasdaq Computer Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index, on March 29, 2007, and a reinvestment of dividends, if any. The stockholder return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns. Comparison of March 29, 2007 to June 30, 2011 Cumulative Total Return Among Super Micro Computer, Nasdaq Computer Index and Nasdaq Composite 03/29/07 06/29/07 06/30/08 06/30/09 06/30/10 06/30/11 Super Micro Computer, Inc. 100.00 113.11 83.39 86.55 152.54 181.11 Nasdaq Composite Index 100.00 107.02 94.26 75.44 86.71 114.02 Nasdaq Computer Index 100.00 110.22 102.75 85.05 101.73 133.40 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 35 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data is qualified by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in Part II, Item 8 and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data:(1) Net sales $ 942,582 $ 721,438 $ 505,609 $ 540,503 $ 420,393 Cost of sales 791,478 606,446 416,899 436,950 345,384 Gross profit 151,104 114,992 88,710 103,553 75,009 Operating expenses: Research and development 48,108 37,382 34,514 30,537 21,171 Sales and marketing 26,859 20,458 17,119 18,191 12,586 General and administrative 17,444 15,318 13,824 14,554 11,467 Provision for (reversal of) litigation loss 1,089 (120 ) Total operating expenses 92,411 74,247 65,457 63,282 45,104 Income from operations 58,693 40,745 23,253 40,271 29,905 Interest and other income, net 66 103 476 1,558 765 Interest expense (686 ) (383 ) (930 ) (1,025 ) (1,332 ) Income before income tax provision 58,073 40,465 22,799 40,804 29,338 Income tax provision 17,860 13,550 6,692 15,385 9,999 Net income $ 40,213 $ 26,915 $ 16,107 $ 25,419 $ 19,339 Net income per share Basic $ 1.04 $ 0.73 $ 0.46 $ 0.81 $ 0.80 Diluted $ 0.93 $ 0.65 $ 0.41 $ 0.65 $ 0.57 Shares used in per share calculation Basic 38,132 35,883 34,218 31,355 24,153 Diluted 42,396 40,735 38,596 38,843 33,946 (1) Includes charges for stock-based compensation: Cost of sales $ 812 $ 573 $ 578 $ 523 $ 300 Research and development 4,077 3,106 2,608 1,817 1,058 Sales and marketing 1,077 880 826 641 362 General and administrative 2,090 1,898 1,649 1,187 710 As of June 30, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 69,943 $ 72,644 $ 70,295 $ 51,481 $ 50,864 Working capital 228,975 158,982 130,987 102,392 95,086 Total assets 464,620 370,762 283,135 264,385 205,583 Long-term obligations, net of current portion(2) 36,716 8,186 15,482 15,023 11,291 Total stockholders equity 287,257 224,701 178,622 151,871 115,872 (2) $27.6 million, $9.7 million, $10.0 million and $11.3 million of our long-term obligations, net of current portion consisted of building loans at June 30, 2011, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. $18.6 million of our short-term debt related to building loan at June 30, 2010 was refinanced to long-term debt at June 30, 2011. 36 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly under the heading Risk Factors. Overview We are a global leader in server technology and green computing innovation. We develop and provide high performance server solutions based on an innovative, modular and open-standard architecture. Our solutions include a range of complete rackmount, workstation, storage, graphic processing unit and blade server systems, as well as subsystems and accessories which can be used by distributors, OEMs and end customers to assemble server systems. To date, we have generated the majority of our net sales from subsystems. In recent years our growth in net sales has been driven by the growth in the market for application optimized server systems. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, net sales of optimized servers were $351.3 million, $245.2 million and $196.7 million, respectively, and net sales of subsystems and accessories were $591.3 million, $476.2 million and $309.0 million, respectively. The increase in our net sales in fiscal year 2011 compared with fiscal year 2010 was primarily attributable to the server refresh cycle and increased sales across our product lines. The growth on a percentage basis was primarily in our SuperBlade , GPU and storage solutions. We commenced operations in 1993 and have been profitable every year since inception. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our net sales were $942.6 million, $721.4 million and $505.6 million, respectively, and our net income was $40.2 million, $26.9 million and $16.1 million, respectively. Our increase in profitability in fiscal year 2011 was primarily attributable to the increase in our gross profit resulting from our increased net sales and to a lesser extent to the lower effective tax rate resulting from the reinstatement of the Federal research and development tax credit in fiscal year 2011. We sell our server systems and subsystems and accessories primarily through distributors and to a lesser extent to OEMs as well as through our direct sales force. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we derived 56.1%, 66.7% and 64.9%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors, and we derived 43.9%, 33.3% and 35.1%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. None of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in fiscal years 2011, 2010 or 2009. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we derived 58.3%, 60.1% and 64.4%, respectively, of our net sales from customers in the United States. For fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, we derived 41.7%, 39.9% and 35.6%, respectively, of our net sales from customers outside the United States. We perform the majority of our research and development efforts in-house. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, research and development expenses represented 5.1%, 5.2% and 6.8% of our net sales, respectively. We use several suppliers and contract manufacturers to design and manufacture components in accordance with our specifications, with most final assembly and testing performed at our manufacturing facility in San Jose, California. During fiscal year 2011, we continued to invest in expanding our operations both in San Jose, California and our subsidiaries in the Netherlands and Taiwan in order to support our growth. We have increased manufacturing and service operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan to support our European and Asian customers and we plan to continue expanding our overseas manufacturing capacity through fiscal year 2012. One of our key suppliers is Ablecom, a related party, which supplies us with contract design and manufacturing support. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our purchases from Ablecom represented 19.6%, 20.5% and 22.1% of our cost of sales, respectively. The decrease in percentage of cost of sales in fiscal year 2011 and 2010 was primarily related to server systems sales composing a higher percentage of our net sales and a change in product mix which resulted in a higher percentage of server subsystems and accessories being purchased from other suppliers. Ablecoms sales to us constitute a substantial majority of Ablecoms net sales. We continue to 37 Table of Contents maintain our manufacturing relationship with Ablecom in Asia in an effort to reduce our product costs and do not have any current plans to reduce our reliance on Ablecom product purchases. In addition to providing a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom continues to warehouse for us a number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the U.S. and Europe. We typically negotiate the price of products that we purchase from Ablecom on a quarterly basis; however, either party may re-negotiate the price of products with each order. As a result of our relationship with Ablecom, it is possible that Ablecom may in the future sell products to us at a price higher or lower than we could obtain from an unrelated third party supplier. This may result in our future reporting of gross profit as a percentage of net sales that is less than or in excess of what we might have obtained absent our relationship with Ablecom. In order to continue to increase our net sales and profits, we believe that we must continue to develop flexible and customizable server solutions and be among the first to market with new features and products. We measure our financial success based on various indicators, including growth in net sales, gross profit as a percentage of net sales, operating income as a percentage of net sales, levels of inventory, and days sales outstanding, or DSOs. In connection with these efforts, we monitor daily and weekly sales and shipment reports. Among the key non-financial indicators of our success is our ability to rapidly introduce new products and deliver the latest application optimized server solutions. In this regard, we work closely with microprocessor and other component vendors to take advantage of new technologies as they are introduced. Historically, our ability to introduce new products rapidly has allowed us to benefit from the introduction of new microprocessors and as a result we monitor the introduction cycles of Intel, AMD and Nvidia carefully. This also impacts our research and development expenditures. For example, our results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 were in part adversely impacted by customer order delays in anticipation of the introduction of the Nehalem line of microprocessors and research and development expenditures necessary for us to prepare for the introduction. Other Financial Highlights The following is a summary of other financial highlights of fiscal year 2011: Net cash generated (used) in operating activities was $8.5 million, ($2.2) million and $21.8 million in fiscal year 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $75.2 million at the end of fiscal year 2011, compare with $79.4 million at the end of fiscal year 2010. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments at the end of fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to an increase in our inventory balance to support our growth and the investments in property for our expansion overseas. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of fiscal year 2011 was 30 days, consistent with the end of fiscal year 2010. Our inventory balance was $192.7 million at the end of fiscal year 2011, compared with $135.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2010. Days sales of inventory (DSI) at the end of fiscal year 2011 was 75 days, compared with 67 days at the end of fiscal year 2010. The increase in our inventory balance at the end of fiscal year 2011 was in part due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy, in part to support our growth and in part due to our increasing manufacturing activities in the Netherlands and Taiwan. Our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were $91.8 million at the end of fiscal year 2011 and $92.1 million at the end of fiscal year 2010. In August 2010, we purchased land in Taiwan, consisting of approximately 4.7 acres for a total purchase price of $6.1 million. In March 2011, we drew an additional $9.9 million from our revolving line of credit and paid $9.2 million as a deposit to purchase land in Taiwan that is adjacent to the land that was purchased in August 2010. Title to this land is expected to transfer in the first half of fiscal year 2012. We are developing the land through fiscal year 2012 for manufacturing and service operations. 38 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal year 2011, for example, refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. Revenues and Expenses Net sales. Net sales consist of sales of our server solutions, including server systems, subsystems and accessories. The main factors which impact our net sales are unit volumes shipped and average selling prices. The prices for server systems range widely depending upon the configuration, and the prices for our subsystems and accessories vary based on the type. As with most electronics-based products, average selling prices typically are highest at the time of introduction of new products which utilize the latest technology and tend to decrease over time as such products mature in the market and are replaced by next generation products. Cost of sales. Cost of sales primarily consists of the costs to manufacture our products, including the costs of materials, contract manufacturing, shipping, personnel and related expenses, equipment and facility expenses, warranty costs and inventory excess and obsolete provisions. The primary factors that impact our cost of sales are the mix of products sold and cost of materials, which include raw material costs, shipping costs and salary and benefits related to production. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales may increase over time if decreases in average selling prices are not offset by corresponding decreases in our costs. Our cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, is generally lower on server systems than on subsystems and accessories. Because we do not have long-term fixed supply agreements, our cost of sales is subject to change based on market conditions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses consist of the personnel and related expenses of our research and development teams, and materials and supplies, consulting services, third party testing services and equipment and facility expenses related to our research and development activities. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We occasionally receive non-recurring engineering, or NRE funding from certain suppliers and customers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain research and development costs that we incur as part of the joint development of our products and those of our suppliers and customers. These amounts offset a portion of the related research and development expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and commissions for our sales and marketing personnel, costs for tradeshows, independent sales representative fees and marketing programs. From time to time, we receive cooperative marketing funding from certain suppliers. Under these programs, we are reimbursed for certain marketing costs that we incur as part of the joint promotion of our products and those of our suppliers. These amounts offset a portion of the related expenses and have the effect of reducing our reported sales and marketing expenses. Similarly, we from time to time offer our distributors cooperative marketing funding which has the effect of increasing our expenses. The timing, magnitude and estimated usage of our programs and those of our suppliers can result in significant variations in reported sales and marketing expenses from period to period. Spending on cooperative marketing, either by us or our suppliers, typically increases in connection with significant product releases by us or our suppliers. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of general corporate costs, including personnel expenses, financial reporting, corporate governance and compliance and outside legal, audit and tax fees. Provision for litigation loss. Loss from litigation relates to an action filed in France by Digitechnic, S.A., a former customer. The Company entered into a settlement agreement with Digitechnic, pursuant to which the Company made a payment of $1.1 million in December 2009. Interest and other income, net. Interest and other income, net represents the net of our interest income on investments or interest expense on the building loans or letters of credit for our owned facilities offset by interest earned on our cash balances. 39 Table of Contents Income tax provision. Our income tax provision is based on our taxable income generated in the jurisdictions in which we operate, currently primarily the United States and the Netherlands and to a lesser extent, Taiwan. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to research and development tax credits and the domestic production activities deduction which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes and stock option expenses. A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is set forth in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts and sales returns, cooperative marketing accruals, investment valuations, inventory valuations, income taxes, warranty obligations and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments we make about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Because these estimates can vary depending on the situation, actual results may differ from the estimates. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies as they require our more significant judgments in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue recognition. We recognize revenue from sales of products, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, shipment has occurred and title has transferred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured, and all significant obligations have been met. Generally this occurs at the time of shipment when risk of loss and title has passed to the customer. Our standard arrangement with our customers includes a signed purchase order or contract, 30 to 60 days payment terms, Ex-works terms, except for a few customers who have free-on-board destination terms or customer acceptance provisions, and revenue is recognized when the products arrive or are accepted at the destination. We generally do not provide for non-warranty rights of return except for products which have Out-of-box failure, where customers could return these products for credit within 30 days of receiving the items. Certain distributors and OEMs are also permitted to return products in unopened boxes, limited to purchases over a specified period of time, generally within 60 to 90 days of the purchase, or to products in the distributors or OEMs inventory at certain times (such as the termination of the agreement or product obsolescence). In addition, we have a sale arrangement with an OEM that has limited product return rights. To estimate reserves for future sales returns, we regularly review our history of actual returns for each major product line. We also communicate regularly with our distributors to gather information about end customer satisfaction, and to determine the volume of inventory in the channel. Reserves for future returns are adjusted as necessary, based on returns experience, returns expectations and communication with our distributors. In addition, certain customers have acceptance provisions and revenue is deferred until the customers provide the necessary acceptance. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had deferred revenue of $2.4 million and $1.3 million and related deferred product costs of $1.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively, related to shipments to customers pending acceptances. Probability of collection is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis. Customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ability to pay. If it is determined from the outset of an arrangement that collection is not probable based upon the review process, the customers are required to pay cash in advance of shipment. We also make estimates of the uncollectibility of accounts receivables, analyzing accounts receivable and historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer-credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in customer payment terms to evaluate the adequacy of the 40 Table of Contents allowance for doubtful accounts. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of our reported operating expenses could result. We provide for price protection to certain distributors. We assess the market competition and product technology obsolescence, and make price adjustments based on our judgment. Upon each announcement of price reductions, the accrual for price protection is calculated based on our distributors inventory on hand. Such reserves are recorded as a reduction to revenue at the time we reduce the product prices. We have an immaterial amount of service revenue relating to non-warranty repairs, which is recognized upon shipment of the repaired units to customers. Service revenue has been less than 10% of net sales for all periods presented and is not separately disclosed. Cooperative marketing accruals. We have arrangements with resellers of our products to reimburse the resellers for cooperative marketing costs meeting specified criteria. We accrue the cooperative marketing costs based on these arrangements and our estimate for resellers claims for marketing activities. We record marketing costs meeting such specified criteria within sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. For those marketing costs that do not meet the specified criteria, the amounts are recorded as a reduction to sales in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Impairment of short-term and long-term investments. Impairment of short-term and long-term investments relates to the unrealized loss on the carrying value of our investments in auction rate securities; such securities were rated AAA at the date of purchase. The liquidity and fair value of these securities has been negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the credit markets and exposure of these securities to the financial condition of bond insurance companies. We have received all interest payments due on these instruments on a timely basis. Each of these securities has been subject to auction processes for which there has been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates and the auctions have subsequently failed. When these securities lost the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction processes, we reclassified these securities as long-term investments. For the securities with the stated maturity less than a year, the securities were classified as short-term available-for-sale investments. We have used a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of these investments as of June 30, 2011 and 2010. The material factors used in preparing the discounted cash flow model are 1) the discount rate utilized to present value the cash flows, 2) the time period until redemption and 3) the estimated rate of return. Management derives the estimates by obtaining input from market data on the applicable discount rate, estimated time to maturity and estimated rate of return. The changes in fair value have been primarily due to changes in the estimated rate of return and a change in the estimated period to liquidity. The fair value of our investment portfolio may change between 2% to 3% by increasing or decreasing the rate of return used by 1% or by increasing or decreasing the term used by 1 year. Changes in these estimates or in the market conditions for these investments are likely in the future based upon the then current market conditions for these investments and may affect the fair value of these investments. As of June 30, 2011 and 2010 we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes, on the securities. We deem this loss to be temporary as we determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until recovery of cost. Product warranties. We offer product warranties ranging from 15 to 39 months against any defective product. We accrue for estimated returns of defective products at the time revenue is recognized, based on historical warranty experience and recent trends. We monitor warranty obligations and may make revisions to our warranty reserve if actual costs of product repair and replacement are significantly higher or lower than estimated. Accruals for anticipated future warranty costs are charged to cost of sales and included in accrued liabilities. The liability for product warranties was $4.7 million as of June 30, 2011, compared with $4.6 million as of June 30, 2010. The provision for warranty reserve was $9.6 million, $8.5 million and $6.7 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our estimates and assumptions used have been historically close to actual. The change in estimated liability for pre-existing warranties was ($0.9) million, ($0.9) million and $0.3 41 Table of Contents million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As we experienced an increase in net sales in fiscal year 2011, the provision for warranty reserve increased $1.1 million compared to fiscal year 2010. As we experienced an increase in net sales in fiscal year 2010, the provision for warranty reserve increased $1.8 million compared to fiscal year 2009. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, we intend to adjust our estimates appropriately. Inventory valuation. Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market. We evaluate inventory on a quarterly basis for lower of cost or market and excess and obsolescence and, as necessary, write down the valuation of units to lower of cost or market or for excess and obsolescence based upon the number of units that are unlikely to be sold based upon estimated demand for the following twelve months. This evaluation takes into account matters including expected demand, anticipated sales price, product obsolescence and other factors. If actual future demand for our products is less than currently forecasted, additional inventory adjustments may be required. Once a reserve is established, it is maintained until the product to which it relates is sold or scrapped. If a unit that has been written down is subsequently sold, the cost associated with the revenue from this unit is reduced to the extent of the write down, resulting in an increase in gross profit. We monitor the extent to which previously written down inventory is sold at amounts greater or less than carrying value, and based on this analysis, adjust our estimate for determining future write downs. If in future periods, we experience or anticipate a change in recovery rate compared with our historical experience, our gross margin would be affected. Our provision for inventory was $3.4 million, $2.6 million and $1.5 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Accounting for income taxes. We account for income taxes under an asset and liability approach. Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for income tax reporting purposes, net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax credits measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are provided when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We recognize the tax liability for uncertain income tax positions on the income tax return based on the two-step process. The first step is to determine whether it is more likely than not that each income tax position would be sustained upon audit. The second step is to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority. Estimating these amounts requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on the consideration of several factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in applicable tax law, settlement of issues under audit and new exposures. If we later determine that our exposure is lower or that the liability is not sufficient to cover our revised expectations, we adjust the liability and effect a related change in our tax provision during the period in which we make such determination. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact on our consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation. Effective July 1, 2006, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. Prior to July 1, 2006, we have recorded compensation expense for stock options with exercise prices less than the fair value of the underlying common stock at the option grant date. Amortization of deferred stock compensation, resulting from such stock options granted to employees and directors, when the exercise price of our stock options was less than the deemed market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant, for the years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $0, $0.1 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Since July 1, 2006, the Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, including stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, known as the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). 42 Table of Contents Compensation expense for options granted to employees after July 1, 2006, was $8.1 million, $6.3 million and $5.1 million for the years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of June 30, 2011, the total unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to unvested stock options granted since July 1, 2006 to employees and non-employee directors, was $18.2 million, which is expected to be recognized as an expense over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.42 years. See Note 11 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We estimated the fair value of stock options granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and a single option award approach. This model requires us to make estimates and assumptions with respect to the expected term of the option, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock and the expected forfeiture rate. The fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding and was determined based on an analysis of the relevant peer companies post-vest termination rates and exercise behavior. The expected volatility is based on a combination of the implied and historical volatility of our relevant peer group for the stock options granted prior to September 30, 2009. For stock options granted after September 30, 2009, expected volatility is based solely on our historical volatility. In addition, forfeitures of share-based awards are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. Variable interest entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009 and interim periods therein and thereafter. The new guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. We adopted this standard and have analyzed our relationship with Ablecom and its subsidiaries (collectively Ablecom). We have concluded that Ablecom is a variable interest entity in accordance with applicable accounting standards and guidance; however, we are not the primary beneficiary of Ablecom and therefore, we do not consolidate Ablecom. In performing our analysis, we considered our explicit arrangements with Ablecom including the supplier and distributor arrangements. Also, as a result of the substantial related party relationship between the two companies, we considered whether any implicit arrangements exist that would cause us to protect those related parties interests in Ablecom from suffering losses. We determined that no implicit arrangements exist with Ablecom or its shareholders. Such an arrangement would be inconsistent with the fiduciary duty that we have towards our stockholders who do not own shares in Ablecom. 43 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our financial results, as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Years Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 84.0 84.1 82.5 Gross profit 16.0 15.9 17.5 Operating expenses: Research and development 5.1 5.2 6.8 Sales and marketing 2.8 2.8 3.4 General and administrative 1.9 2.1 2.7 Provision for litigation loss 0.0 0.2 0.0 Total operating expenses 9.8 10.3 12.9 Income from operations 6.2 5.6 4.6 Interest and other income, net 0.0 0.0 0.1 Interest expense (0.0 ) (0.0 ) (0.2 ) Income before income tax provision 6.2 5.6 4.5 Income tax provision 1.9 1.9 1.3 Net income 4.3 % 3.7 % 3.2 % Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 Net sales. Net sales increased by $221.1 million, or 30.7%, to $942.6 million from $721.4 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase was due primarily to an increase in unit volumes of server systems and subsystems and accessories and an increase in average selling prices of server systems. For fiscal year 2011, the number of units sold increased 40.5% to 4.8 million compared to 3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. For fiscal year 2011, the number of server system units sold increased 25.6% to 221,000 compared to 176,000 for fiscal year 2010. The average selling price of server system units increased 14.3% to $1,600 in fiscal year 2011 compared to $1,400 in fiscal year 2010. The average selling prices of our server systems increased principally due to an increase in our sales of complete integrated, high-end server solutions to OEM and end customers and higher average selling prices of 1000, 6000 and 7000 Series configuration of servers which incorporated additional features such as higher density, memory and hard disk drive capacity and higher average selling prices of SuperBlades offset in part by declines in average selling prices of more mature products. Sales of server systems increased by $106.1 million or 43.3% from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to higher sales of OEM and end customers, higher sales of SuperBaldes , higher sales of 1000, 2000, 6000 and 7000 Series configuration of servers including storage and GPU solutions offset in part by lower sales of more mature products. Sales of server systems represented 37.3% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 compared to 34.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010. For fiscal year 2011, the number of subsystems and accessories units sold increased 41.3% to 4.6 million compared to 3.3 million for fiscal year 2010. Sales of subsystems and accessories increased by $115.1 million or 24.2% from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2011, primarily due to higher sales of bundled server solutions to OEM and system integrators who increasingly are purchasing additional accessories from us and completing the final assembly themselves. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 62.7% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 as compared to 66.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010. For fiscal year 2011 and 2010, we derived 56.1% and 66.7%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived 43.9% and 33.3%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For fiscal year 2011, customers in the United 44 Table of Contents States, Europe and Asia accounted for 58.3%, 21.4% and 16.9%, of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 60.1%, 21.7% and 14.8%, respectively, for fiscal year 2010. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $185.0 million, or 30.5%, to $791.5 million from $606.4 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 84.0% and 84.1% for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily attributable to the increase in net sales, an increase of $7.3 million in freight-in charges, an increase of $1.1 million in provision for warranty reserve and an increase of $0.7 million in provision for inventory reserve. The lower cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in sales of server systems and an increase in sales to OEM and end customers. In fiscal year 2011, we recorded a $9.6 million expense, or 1.0% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $8.5 million, or 1.2% of net sales, in fiscal year 2010. The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher net sales in fiscal year 2011. If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In fiscal year 2011, we recorded a $3.4 million expense, or 0.4% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $2.6 million, or 0.4% of net sales, in fiscal year 2010. The increase in the inventory provision was primarily for older products as a result of product transitions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $10.7 million, or 28.7%, to $48.1 million from $37.4 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Research and development expenses were 5.1% and 5.2% of net sales for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $8.5 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in research and development personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense related to expanded product development initiatives in the U.S. and in Taiwan, an increase of $3.0 million in development costs associated with new products offset in part by an increase of $0.8 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $4.1 million and $3.1 million for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $6.4 million, or 31.3%, to $26.9 million from $20.5 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 2.8% of net sales for both fiscal year 2011 and 2010. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $4.3 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in sales and marketing personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense, an increase of $1.1 million in advertising and promotion expense, an increase of $0.6 million in cooperative marketing funding to customers and an increase of $0.4 million in trade show and travel expenses. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million and $0.9 million for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $2.1 million, or 13.9%, to $17.4 million from $15.3 million, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. General and administrative expenses were 1.9% and 2.1% of net sales for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $2.4 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense, in part to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in Taiwan, an increase of $0.6 million in customs fee accrual related to prior periods, an increase of $0.4 million in legal fees offset in part by an increase of $1.0 million in rental income and an increase of $0.6 million in foreign currency transaction gain. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $2.1 million and $1.9 million for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. 45 Table of Contents Provision for litigation loss. There was no loss from litigation expense for fiscal year 2011. For fiscal year 2010, there was a $1.1 million expense due to a settlement payment related to the Digitechnic lawsuit. (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense changed by $0.3 million, to $0.6 million of expense from $0.3 million of expense, for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively, which included $0.7 million and $0.4 million of interest expense for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The net change was primarily due to higher interest expense as our average debt outstanding for fiscal year 2011 was $21.5 million versus $2.5 million in fiscal year 2010. Interest rates were not significantly different in fiscal year 2011 compared to 2010. We expect that our interest expenses will increase in the future as we plan to obtain additional financing from banks to fund the construction of the Taiwan facilities and the expansion of our headquarters office in San Jose. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased by $4.3 million, or 31.8%, to $17.9 million from $13.6 million, for the fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective tax rate was 30.8% and 33.5% for fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective tax rate was lower for fiscal year 2011 primarily due to the reinstatement of Federal research and development tax credits and domestic production activities deduction which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes and stock option expenses. Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 Net sales. Net sales increased by $215.8 million, or 42.7%, to $721.4 million from $505.6 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase was due primarily to an increase in unit volumes of subsystems and accessories and average selling prices of server systems. For fiscal year 2010, the number of units sold increased 54.4% to 3.4 million compared to 2.2 million for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010, the number of server system units sold increased 12.1% to 176,000 compared to 157,000 for fiscal year 2009. The average selling price of server system units increased 12.0% to $1,400 in fiscal year 2010 compared to $1,250 in fiscal year 2009. The average selling prices of our server systems increased principally due to higher average selling prices of our 6000 Series configuration of servers which incorporated additional features offset in part by declines in average selling prices of more mature products. Sales of server systems increased by $48.6 million or 24.7% from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to higher sales of our 6000 Series configuration of servers and higher sales to system integrators offset in part by lower sales of more mature products. Sales of server systems represented 34.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010 compared to 38.9% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010, the number of subsystems and accessories units sold increased 57.6% to 3.3 million compared to 2.1 million for fiscal year 2009. Sales of subsystems and accessories increased by $167.3 million or 54.1% from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to higher sales to distributors, resellers and system integrators who increasingly are purchasing additional accessories from us and completing the final assembly themselves. Sales of subsystems and accessories represented 66.0% of our net sales for fiscal year 2010 as compared to 61.1% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010 and 2009, we derived 66.7% and 64.9%, respectively, of our net sales from products sold to distributors and we derived 33.3% and 35.1%, respectively, from sales to OEMs and to end customers. For fiscal year 2010, customers in the United States, Europe and Asia accounted for 60.1%, 21.7% and 14.8%, of our net sales, respectively, as compared to 64.4%, 21.5% and 11.2%, respectively, for fiscal year 2009. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $189.5 million, or 45.5%, to $606.4 million from $416.9 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 84.1% and 82.5% for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars of cost of sales was primarily attributable to the increase in net sales, an increase of $3.3 million in freight-in charges, an increase of $1.8 million in provision for warranty reserve and an increase of $1.2 million in provision for inventory reserve. The higher cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a lower percentage of sales from server systems and a higher percentage of sales of subsystem and accessories and increased sales to distributors, 46 Table of Contents resellers and system integrators. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $8.5 million expense, or 1.2% of net sales, related to the provision for warranty reserve as compared to $6.7 million, or 1.3% of net sales, in fiscal year 2009. The increase in the provision for warranty reserve was primarily due to higher net sales in fiscal year 2010. If in future periods we experience or anticipate an increase or decrease in warranty claims as a result of new product introductions or change in unit volumes compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater or lesser than expected, our gross margin would be affected. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $2.6 million expense, or 0.4% of net sales, related to the inventory provision as compared to $1.5 million, or 0.3% of net sales, in fiscal year 2009. The increase in the inventory provision was primarily for older products as a result of product transitions. Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses increased by $2.9 million, or 8.3%, to $37.4 million from $34.5 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Research and development expenses were 5.2% and 6.8% of net sales for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $4.0 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in research and development personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan and a decrease of $0.2 million in non-recurring engineering funding from certain suppliers and customers. This increase was offset in part by a decrease of $1.3 million in development costs associated with new products. Research and development expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $3.1 million and $2.6 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $3.3 million, or 19.5%, to $20.5 million from $17.1 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales and marketing expenses were 2.8% and 3.4% of net sales for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $2.0 million in compensation and benefits resulting from growth in sales and marketing personnel, including higher stock-based compensation expense, a decrease of $0.4 million in cooperative marketing funding from vendors, an increase of $0.4 million in advertising and promotion expenses and an increase of $0.3 million in trade show expenses. Sales and marketing expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $0.9 million and $0.8 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.5 million, or 10.8%, to $15.3 million from $13.8 million, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. General and administrative expenses were 2.1% and 2.7% of net sales for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in compensation and benefits, including higher stock-based compensation expense, in part to support the expansion of our operations at our headquarters and operations in the Netherlands and Taiwan and an increase of $0.5 million in bad debt expenses. General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation expense of $1.9 million and $1.6 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Provision for litigation loss. Loss from litigation was $1.1 million for fiscal year 2010. There was no provision for fiscal year 2009. The provision was due to a settlement payment related to the Digitechnic lawsuit. (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Interest and other expense, net. Interest and other expense was reduced by $0.2 million, to $0.3 million of expense from $0.5 million of expense, for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $0.4 million and $0.9 million was interest expense for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The net change was due to lower interest income of $0.4 million resulting from lower interest rates and lower interest expense of $0.5 million as the Company paid off two outstanding building loans in July and August 2009. We expect the interest expenses 47 Table of Contents will increase in the future as we have borrowed $18.6 million to purchase properties in San Jose, California in June 2010 and intend to obtain additional financing to purchase land and to fund building construction in Taiwan in fiscal year 2011. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased by $6.9 million, or 102.5%, to $13.6 million from $6.7 million, for the fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate was 33.5% and 29.4% for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the expiration of the federal research and development tax credit in fiscal year 2010. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have financed our growth primarily with funds generated from operations and from the proceeds of our initial public offering. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were $70.0 million and $73.5 million as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Operating Activities. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $8.5 million, ($2.2) million and $21.8 million for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net cash provided by our operating activities for fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to our net income of $40.2 million, an increase in accounts payable of $16.9 million, stock-based compensation expense of $8.1 million, allowance for sales returns of $6.6 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $5.7 million, depreciation expense of $5.5 million, an increase in accrued liabilities of $5.3 million, which was partially offset by an increase in inventory of $60.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $19.2 million. Net cash used in our operating activities for fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to our net income of $26.9 million, an increase in accounts payable of $21.8 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $9.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $6.5 million, an increase in accrued liabilities of $5.5 million and allowance for sales returns of $5.3 million which were offset by an increase in inventory of $48.2 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $33.3 million. Net cash provided by our operating activities for fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to our net income of $16.1 million, stock-based compensation expense of $5.7 million, an increase in net income taxes payable of $4.8 million and allowance for sales returns of $4.2 million which was substantially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $6.9 million and an increase in inventory of $5.8 million. The increase for fiscal year 2011 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales during fiscal year 2011. The increase for fiscal year 2011 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was in part due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy, in part to support our growth and in part due to our increasing manufacturing activities in the Netherlands and Taiwan. We anticipate that accounts receivable, sales returns, inventory and accounts payable will continue to increase to the extent we continue to grow our product lines and our business. The increase for fiscal year 2010 in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher net sales during fiscal year 2010. The increase for fiscal year 2010 in inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to an increase in demand for our products resulting from a recovering economy and to support the growth of the Company. The decrease for fiscal year 2009 in sales returns was primarily due to lower net sales during fiscal year 2009 as a result of reductions in information technology spending in response to the global economic downturn and to a lesser extent was impacted by delayed customer orders in anticipation of the release by Intel of its Nehalem line of microprocessors in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The decrease for fiscal year 2009 in accounts payable was primarily due to timing of payments to our vendors. The increase for fiscal year 2009 in inventory was primarily due to our increased purchases of X8 Nehalem products which were launched at the end of March 31, 2009. Investing activities . Net cash used in our investing activities was $24.8 million, $11.8 million and $2.7 million for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In fiscal year 2011, $16.2 million was related to the 48 Table of Contents purchase of property, plant and equipment including $6.1 million related to the land purchased in Taiwan in August 2010 and $9.2 million was related to a deposit made in March 2011 for land in Taiwan. This was offset by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $1.5 million. In fiscal year 2010, $22.2 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment offset in part by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $8.9 million. In fiscal year 2009, $3.6 million was related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment offset in part by the redemption at par of investments in auction rate securities of $0.9 million. We anticipate to close the title on the land deposit in Taiwan and finalize the purchase price, consisting of approximately 2.2 acres, in the first half of fiscal year 2012 to develop our manufacturing and service operations in Asia. We also plan to expand our headquarters office in San Jose, California. The construction of the Taiwan facilities and the headquarters office expansion in San Jose, California began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 and will continue through fiscal year 2012. The anticipated costs for the next twelve months to build the Taiwan facilities and the headquarters office expansion in San Jose, California are approximately $16.9 million. We plan to finance these projects through our operating cash flows and additional financing from banks in fiscal year 2012. Financing activities . Net cash provided by (used in) our financing activities was $13.6 million, $16.3 million and ($0.3) million for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In fiscal year 2011, we received $10.3 million related to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We withheld shares and paid the minimum tax withholding on behalf of several executive officers and an employee for their stock options and restricted stock awards of $8.4 million for fiscal year 2011. Further, we obtained a new term loan of $13.9 million and borrowed $9.9 million of our revolving line of credit. We repaid $14.1 million in loans for fiscal year 2011. We expect the net cash provided by financing activities will increase in the quarter ending September 30, 2011 as we intend to obtain additional financing from banks to construct our manufacturing building in Taiwan and support our building expansion in San Jose, California. In fiscal year 2010, $18.6 million was related to proceeds from the revolving line of credit associated with the purchase of three buildings and $6.4 million was proceeds from exercise of stock options and $1.5 million was related to the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. In fiscal year 2009, we repurchased 445,028 shares of treasury stock for $2.0 million and received $2.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We expect to experience continued growth in our working capital requirements and capital expenditures as we continue to expand our business. We intend to fund this continued expansion through cash generated by operations and by drawing on the revolving credit facility or through other debt financing. However we cannot be certain whether such financing will be available on commercially reasonable or otherwise favorable terms or that such financing will be available at all. We anticipate that working capital and capital expenditures will constitute a material use of our cash resources. We have sufficient cash on hand to continue to operate in the next 12 months. Other factors affecting liquidity and capital resources As of June 30, 2011, we had a revolving line of credit totaling $25.0 million that matures on June 15, 2013 with an interest rate at the LIBOR rate plus 1.50% per annum. In June 2010, we used $18.6 million of the line of credit to purchase three buildings with approximately 167,000 square feet of space in San Jose, California adjacent to our headquarters. The loan is secured by all our assets except for the three buildings purchased in San Jose, California, and we were required to obtain a mortgage loan to pay-off this line of credit by December 2010. In December 2010, we repaid $13.9 million of the line of credit by obtaining a term loan for the same amount and the remaining $4.7 million of the line of credit has been extended to be repaid by June 15, 2013. The term loan is secured by the three buildings purchased in San Jose, California in June 2010 and the principal and interest are payable monthly through October 1, 2013 with an interest rate at the LIBOR rate plus 1.75% per annum. The LIBOR rate was 0.19% at June 30, 2011. 49 Table of Contents In March 2011, we drew an additional $9.9 million of the line of credit with an interest rate equal to the lenders established interest rate which is adjusted monthly and paid $9.2 million for a deposit to purchase land in Taiwan. The interest rate was 1.64% at June 30, 2011. As of June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, the total outstanding borrowing under these loans was $28.2 million and $18.6 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2011, the unused revolving line of credit was $10.4 million and we were not in compliance with the investment covenant associated with these loans; however, we obtained waivers as of June 30, 2011 from the lenders in August 2011 regarding such non-compliance. In addition, we have historically paid our contract manufacturers within 38 to 76 days of invoice and Ablecom between 53 and 100 days of invoice. As of June 30, 2011 and 2010 amounts owed to Ablecom by us were $34.2 million and $19.5 million, respectively. In February 2008, we leased an office building of approximately 246,000 square feet in Fremont, California with total payment obligations of $6.8 million over the next 4.1 years as of June 30, 2011. We also obtained an irrevocable standby letter of credit required by the landlord of the office lease totaling $121,000. This amount has been classified as a restricted cash as of June 30, 2011. As of June 30, 2011, we held $5.2 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; such auction rate securities were rated AAA or BAA at June 30, 2011. These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and stated maturity dates for these auction rate student loans range from 2035 to 2040. During February 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities began to fail to obtain sufficient bids to establish a clearing rate and were not saleable in the auction, thereby losing the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction process. As a result, as of June 30, 2011, $5.2 million of these auction rate securities have been classified as long-term available-for-sale investments. Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2011, we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before the anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold these investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to June 30, 2011, as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to June 30, 2011 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. In fiscal year 2011, 2010 and 2009, $1.5 million, $8.9 million and $0.9 million of these auction rate securities were redeemed at par, respectively. Our long-term future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our level of revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of our introductions of new products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity and the continuing market acceptance of our products. We could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 50 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table describes our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2011: Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total (in thousands) Operating leases $ 3,210 $ 4,609 $ 2,859 $ 32 $ 10,710 Capital leases, including interest 41 51 5 97 Long-term debt, including interest (1) 827 27,942 28,769 License arrangements 511 911 228 1,650 Purchase commitments (2) 91,812 91,812 Total $ 96,401 $ 33,513 $ 3,092 $ 32 $ 133,038 (1) Amount reflects total anticipated cash payments, including anticipated interest payments based on the interest rate at June 30, 2011. (2) Amount reflects total gross purchase commitments under our manufacturing arrangements with third-party contract manufacturers or vendors. The table above excludes liabilities for deferred revenue for warranty services of $2.4 million and unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties accrual of $7.2 million. We have not provided a detailed estimate of the payment timing of unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainty of when the related tax settlements will become due. See Note 12 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of income taxes. We expect to fund our remaining contractual obligations from our ongoing operations and existing cash and cash equivalents on hand. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2011, the FASB issued additional guidance on fair value measurements that clarifies the application of existing guidance and disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The new standard requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new standard also requires presentation of adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The updated guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 51 Table of Contents Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing the risk. Some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the fair value of the investment to fluctuate. To minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in money market funds and certificates of deposit. Since our results of operations are not dependent on investments, the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio, and we believe that a 10% change in interest rates would not have a significant impact on our results of operations. As of June 30, 2011, our investments were in money market funds, certificates of deposits and auction rate securities (see Liquidity Risk below). We had $28.2 million and $18.6 million of indebtedness under our credit facilities as of June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In December 2010, we repaid $13.9 million of the revolving line of credit by obtaining a term loan. In March 2011, we also drew an additional $9.9 million from the revolving line of credit and paid $9.2 million for a deposit to purchase land in Taiwan that is adjacent to the land that was purchased in August 2010. The annual interest rate on our credit facilities for our outstanding term loan is based on the LIBOR rate plus 1.50% per annum. The annual interest rate for our revolving line of credit is based on LIBOR rate plus 1.75% per annum and lenders established interest rate. The interest rate for the term loan and the revolving line of credit ranges from 1.69% to 2.14% at June 30, 2011 and 1.84% at June 30, 2010. We believe that a 10% change in interest rates would not have a significant impact on our results of operations. Liquidity Risk As of June 30, 2011, we held $5.2 million of auction rate securities, net of unrealized losses, representing our interest in auction rate preferred shares in a closed end mutual fund invested in municipal securities and auction rate student loans guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program; such auction rate securities were rated AAA or BAA at June 30, 2011. These auction rate preferred shares have no stated maturity date and the stated maturity dates for these auction rate student loans range from 2035 to 2040. During February 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities began to fail to obtain sufficient bids to establish a clearing rate and were not saleable in the auction, thereby losing the short-term liquidity previously provided by the auction process. As a result, as of June 30, 2011, $5.2 million of these auction rate securities have been classified as long-term available-for-sale investments. Based on our assessment of fair value at June 30, 2011, we have recorded an accumulated unrealized loss of $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes, on long-term auction rate securities. The unrealized loss was deemed to be temporary and has been recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. During fiscal year 2011, 2010 and 2009, $1.5 million, $8.9 million and $0.9 million were redeemed at par, respectively. Although we have determined that we will not likely be required to sell the securities before the anticipated recovery and we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until successful auctions occur, these investments are not currently liquid and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal. There can be no assurances that these investments will be settled in the short term or that they will not become other-than-temporarily impaired subsequent to June 30, 2011, as the market for these investments is presently uncertain. In any event, we do not have a present need to access these funds for operational purposes. We will continue to monitor and evaluate these investments as there is no assurance as to when the market for these investments will allow us to liquidate them. We may be required to record impairment charges in periods subsequent to June 30, 2011 with respect to these securities and, if a liquid market does not develop for these investments, we could be required to hold them to maturity. 52 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk To date, our international customer and supplier agreements have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, we have not been exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations from customer agreements, and do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. However, the functional currency of our operations in Netherlands and Taiwan is the U.S. dollar and our local accounts are maintained in the local currency in the Netherlands and Taiwan, respectively, and thus we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations associated with re-measurement to U.S. dollars. Such fluctuations have not been significant historically. Foreign exchange gain for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0.8 million, $0.2 million and $3,000, respectively. 53 Table of Contents