Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These risk factors will be important to consider in determining future results and should be reviewed in their entirety. Annualized and estimated numbers are used for illustrative purpose only, are not forecasts and may not reflect actual results. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview Our vision is to make the supply chain work better for everyone. We do this by developing, commercializing, and deploying innovative, comprehensive technology solutions that dramatically improve supply chain operations. We automate the processing of pallets and cases in large warehouses or distribution centers for some of the largest retail and wholesale companies in the world. Our supply chain automation system (System) enhances operations at the front end of the supply chain, and therefore benefits all supply partners further down the chain, irrespective of fulfillment strategy. Symbotic was established to develop technologies to improve operating efficiencies in modern warehouses. Significant funds and resources have been devoted to date in developing the Symbotic system and related applications to create a system with the ability to fundamentally change how the supply chain functions. Symbotics intellectual property is protected by a portfolio of over 700 issued and/or pending patents. Our revolutionary system accelerates the movement of goods through the supply chain, improves stock keeping unit (SKU) agility, fulfills orders with 99.9999% accuracy, and does this all with less inventory and operating cost. The underlying architecture of our system differentiates it from everyone else in the marketplace. The system uses Symbots which are high-speed, fully autonomous mobile robots that travel up to 25 miles-per-hour (mph). The Symbots are controlled by our artificial intelligence (A.I.) enabled software to move goods through our proprietary storage or buffering structure. Our proprietary modular applications, such as our inbound sorting and outbound palletizing cells, plug into our system to achieve compelling, real world supply chain improvements at scale. We are developing other modular applications that will allow our customers to support all omni-channel strategies, such as brick-and-mortar retail and e-commerce with in-store pickup or home delivery, from a single centralized warehouse/fulfillment facility. Our system varies in size and price. A system can be as small as a football field (i.e., 48,000 square feet), which can serve 25 or more stores and can scale to meet the needs of the worlds largest retailers. Our systems modular design and greater storage density enables installation in existing, and active warehouses, with limited interruption to ongoing operations. Our system separates inbound freight (i.e., divide it into a common unit) from pallets-to-cases and cases-to-items (currently in development of our second generation, referred to as our Breakpack system), digitize the attributes of these units without re-labeling, and move the units to buffering in their original (or native) packaging with bottom lift technology on our autonomous mobile robots instead of re-transferring goods to trays, shuttles, or cranes. As the distribution center receives replenishment orders from stores, our autonomous robots retrieve the desired units in specified sequence to facilitate orderly fulfillment. Our system can also build pallets autonomously. The system can build pallets with goods ordered from a specific store and specific aisle. This facilitates rapid and sequential provisioning of the goods from the pallets to a specific store and a specific shelf (i.e., store plan-o-grammed pallets). The system also builds the pallets with improved structural integrity, which in turn leads to denser, taller pallets that improve truck packing density while reducing product damage. We believe that the global supply chain has reached a point of critical stress, driving an inflection in demand for warehouse automation across all industries. As the labor force shifts toward an older, more highly educated demographic, the warehouse labor pool is shrinking and becoming more expensive, while most well-located warehouses are either operating manually or utilizing outdated, static mechanized conveyor systems. The dramatic growth in e-commerce has increased supply chain complexity by putting pressure on retailers to support multiple sales channels and orders of individual items in addition to cases and pallets. Meanwhile, consumer expectations have evolved to demand a larger variety of items to be delivered quickly and seamlessly. This has placed significant strain on the traditional supply chain and the people who support it. We help our customers thrive in this increasingly challenging environment. Our system is deployed in the warehouses of a number of the worlds largest retailers, including Walmart, wholesale distributors, including C&S Wholesale Grocers, and warehouse as a service providers, including GreenBox. We have spent significant time working closely with our customers to develop, test, and refine our technology. This has translated into approximately $22.4 billion of backlog as of September 28, 2024, of which Walmart and GreenBox comprise the vast majority. We believe the potential market opportunity for our system is large and expanding. We are initially targeting the largest brick-and-mortar companies across five verticals: general merchandise, ambient grocery, ambient food distribution, consumer 3 Table of Contents packaged food, and apparel. Based on identified North American warehouses of the largest companies in each of these five verticals, we believe that our strategically addressed market opportunity is approximately $144 billion. When considering deeper penetration in our initial verticals, adding additional adjacent verticals, and entering the European market, we believe our total addressable market increases to $432 billion. Industry Background First Principles of the Supply Chain The first principles of the supply chain are to align three mismatches between producers and recipients of goods in a cost-effective manner. These three mismatches relate to the quantity, timing, and location of goods. They exist because a small number of producers concentrate resources to serve many consumers in the pursuit of economies of scale. The first mismatch relates to the quantity of goods. A relatively small number of producers generate a greater quantity of goods than any single consumer desires. The supply chain aligns this mismatch by singulating (i.e., dividing into a common unit) production quantities into quantities desired by consumers. This means pallets are separated into cases and then cases are separated into individual items (also known as eaches). The second mismatch relates to the timing of when goods are produced versus needed. Producers generate goods continuously, but end users purchase and consume goods at a much slower or cyclical rate. This mismatch is aligned by storing goods in inventory (known as buffering). Buffering is analogous to a water reservoir managing the variation between precipitation and household water consumption. The third and final mismatch relates to location. Goods are needed at the point of consumption rather than the point of production. Thus, movement of goods is a critical function of the supply chain. Types of Warehouses Modern warehouses are a node in the supply chain where singulating, buffering, and movement activities align these mismatches. Two common types of warehouses are distribution centers and e-commerce fulfillment centers. Manufacturers package finished goods in either pallets or cases and the goods enter the supply chain in either pallets or cases. The pallets and cases flow downstream to the consumers. Our system automates the separation of pallet-to-case upstream in the supply chain. Thus, our system benefits all downstream users in the supply chain. With this advantage, and because the majority of supply chain cost resides in the distribution center, it is easier to integrate systems downstream, rather than upstream (see Our Competitive Strengths). Distribution Centers E-Commerce Fulfillment Flow of Goods Upstream Downstream Typical Function Singulate and buffering between producers and next node Items selection Packing and shipping Typical Location Rural, Suburban Suburban, Urban Common Fulfillment Unit Pallets, Cases Items/Eaches Optimized for Low cost per case Speed of fulfillment & delivery Volume High Low to moderate SKU count/variety Low to Moderate High Current supply chain operations are generally manual, inflexible, expensive, require significant investments in inventory, and require goods to be manually handled multiple times before being shipped to stores or consumers. The supply chain is expensive because it tends to be slow and labor intensive, which leads to significant damage and waste. In a typical supply chain operation, single-SKU pallets are delivered to a distribution center where hundreds, or thousands, of people are required to move and store pallets. They then select individual cases from the pallets and combine those individual cases into store-ready pallets. In e-commerce fulfillment, they unpack the cases, store individual items in totes or other storage structures and then select and combine individual items for individual customer order fulfillment. Even mechanized warehouses require significant human intervention, are very inflexible, and face disruption from numerous single points of failure. These factors contribute to high maintenance costs and damage, resulting in limited total cost savings. 4 Table of Contents Retail and Supply Chain Trends Several trends within the retail industry supply chain have exacerbated the costs and inflexibility of this supply chain: Labor Scarcity and CostAs the labor force matures and becomes more highly educated, warehouse labor is becoming increasingly scarce and expensive. The turnover rate for transportation, warehousing, and utilities employees was 23% higher than the turnover rate for all nonfarm employees in 2023, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Omni-Channel StrategiesAs online shopping has become more popular with consumers, brick-and-mortar retailers must support multiple distribution channels. Traditional brick-and-mortar must also support online with home delivery, buy online pick up in store, as well as support for channel-related reverse logistics. Not only does the growth of distribution channels increase complexity, but the e-commerce channel itself is more complex than traditional brick-and-mortar. They are more complex because they need to deliver a continuously changing and increasingly diverse range of items to a broader range of locations faster and in an increasing variety of ways. Growing Consumer Expectations and SKU ProliferationThe internet has made the worlds goods available to more consumers, so now shoppers expect retailers to offer increased product diversity. At the same time, manufacturers continue to adopt mass personalization product strategies, which adds to an already growing number of SKUs and accelerates the frequency and speed of SKU transitions. These trends require retailers to find a way to efficiently store, handle, and make available a wider variety of SKUs while managing seasonal and geographic variability. This requires either a greater number of specialized supply chain processes or greater flexibility of existing processes. Existing warehouse automation systems are largely engineered to solve single challenges in the supply chain. They have discrete applicability focused on a particular niche in the warehouse automation value chain (e.g., specific pick and pack, e-commerce fulfillment robotics) or are older manufacturing technologies that automate high-volume, lower-value repetitive tasks (e.g., conveyor belts and sensors). We believe our system is unique as it is a comprehensive warehouse automation system. Advances in Core Technologies We benefit from advances in robotics, sensors, visual systems, processing power, machine learning, and A.I. that have been developed and commercialized over the last decade. For example, we benefit from the tens of billions of dollars that have been invested in attempts to advance autonomous vehicle technology. Our System Overview Given the first principles of the supply chain, we re-conceived the purpose and needs of the supply chain. Unencumbered by legacy thinking and the resulting narrowly targeted technologies aimed at reducing fragments of cost in the warehouse, we completely re-designed and re-engineered the warehouse. Our system manages every aspect of warehouse logistics, from the time merchandise is off-loaded from a producers truck or container until that merchandise is ready to be delivered to a store, pick-up location, or individual. Our system has an approximate useful life of 25 to 30 years and is so space efficient that it can be installed in phases in operating warehouses with minimal impact to operations. The system is comprised of inbound de-palletizing cells utilizing robotic arms, a storage structure, autonomous mobile robots that handle product, outbound palletizing cells using robotic arms, and software that coordinates and optimizes the movements of all the hardware. This software maximizes the throughput of goods while improving quality of delivery and reducing the cost. 5 Table of Contents Unique System Architecture Our innovative system architecture differentiates our system from alternative warehouse systems. The pillars of our architecture combine synergistically to deliver the benefits of our solution. The pillars are: A.I.-Powered Software: Our system is enhanced by our A.I.-enabled autonomous software. We define A.I. as technology that enables computers and machines to simulate human learning, comprehension, problem solving, decision making, creativity, and autonomy. Applications and devices equipped with A.I. can see and identify objects. They can understand and respond to human language. They can learn from new information and experience. They can make detailed recommendations to users and experts. They can act independently, replacing the need for human intelligence or intervention. We believe our autonomous hardware and system software technology encompass the definition of A.I. by reducing the need for manual human intelligence or intervention by simulating human functions. Singulating: Singulating goods is the process of dividing quantities of goods to the lowest common fulfillment unit (e.g., from pallets-to-cases and cases-to-items). Our case-based system separates all incoming pallets to the case level. Our Breakpack system separates all cases to the each (or items) level to handle toted items in our system just like we currently handle cases. Competing warehouse systems handle pallets and more frequently partial pallets of goods. Pallets and partial pallets represent an increased level of on hand inventory and partial pallets leave unused volume within the warehouse. Volume adds expense because it has its own cost and because volume adds movement distance, slowing down the transport of goods through the supply chain. By managing goods at the case and toted item level, rather than at the pallet level, our system removes unused space from the distribution center, allowing merchandise to be stored more densely and increasing the speed of product throughput. These space saving efforts are increased by the storage density of our system, which allows us to retrofit our system into our customers existing warehouse operations without interrupting ongoing supply chain operations or requiring capital to build new greenfield warehouse space. Dynamic Storage: Our system function is analogous to that of a random-access computer hard drive. By effectively digitizing each individual case and toted item and spreading them throughout the storage structure, we create optionality for our picking and routing optimization algorithms. Merchandise is opportunistically placed throughout the storage structure, similar to the way a random-access hard drive handles data. This minimizes movement to increase throughput, enhances SKU agility and reduces the number of autonomous mobile robots required to distribute product. Autonomous Movement: Fully autonomous A.I.-enabled mobile robots allow our system to have superior flexibility, speed, mobility, and inventory handling capabilities. Like fully autonomous cars operating in a smart city, our robots operate independently but act collectively to transport, sequence, and move cases through a 6 Table of Contents warehouse. Our algorithms consider robot proximity, travel distance and other factors to solve for optimal overall performance while dynamically adjusting as anomalies arise. In addition, because each robot can travel anywhere in a two-dimensional plane and moves like a car that can make radius turns, our robots are comparatively fast, traveling up to 25 miles-per-hour (mph). Faster movement enhances throughput and efficiency by clearing aisles more quickly and allowing for more storage and retrieval transactions per hour compared to tray, shuttle, or crane-based systems. Finally, our use of automation and A.I.-enabled software means our system can approach true lights-out operation (100% up-time with zero human intervention). Original (Native) Package Handling: We place and pick cases by underpicking or lifting them from the bottom using an automated fork system. This unique technique enables our mobile robots to manipulate a wide range of case sizes, types and weights in a variety of packaging formats. Thus, our system can handle a greater variety of goods in a wide range of verticals. Unlike some of our competitors, we do not handle goods with grippers, which can crush them, or suction cups, which can drop goods. We also do not transfer goods to standardized trays, eliminating additional handling of goods. Instead, bottom-lift handling reduces case damage and rejection rates, thereby decreasing waste and cost. End-to-End Integration: By being an integrated end-to-end system, we are able to comprehensively change a warehouse and a customers supply chain to maximize its efficiency. System-of-Systems Design: Our system-of-systems architecture philosophy eliminates single points of failure, enhancing system resiliency. Utilizing a redundant array of autonomous robots, lifts and palletizing cells, each part of our system is able to assume the task load of another part, if a part fails. In addition, our hardware and software are engineered for rapid serviceability utilizing field replaceable components wherever possible. Scalable Modularity: Our architecture is highly modular and scalable, allowing us to install our system in existing warehouse facilities while achieving full performance benefits. We are also able to install our system in phases, allowing the existing warehouse facility to continue to operate during the transition to our system. Finally, we can easily reconfigure and expand our system to accommodate SKU proliferation as our customers needs and strategies evolve. System Functional Flow Overview Generally, manufacturers create their products in batches by SKU (i.e., individual type of item like can of chicken noodle soup). Manufacturers then aggregate and package the goods in manageable quantities for efficient and safe shipping. Usually, goods are batched in cardboard or plastic cases. Cases are then stacked on 4-foot by 4-foot pallets as high as safely possible and then shrink-wrapped so the pallets retain integrity while in transit and the goods can be transported without damage. A pallet may commonly contain anywhere between 40 and 120 cases depending on the size and weight of the goods and, therefore, could contain dozens to hundreds of goods that will ultimately be sold to consumers. Some manufacturers produce homogeneous pallets with one SKU. Others may combine multiple SKUs on heterogeneous pallets if the cases are the same size and the manufacturer is able to do so efficiently in their production process. Other goods may be shipped un-palletized because a manufacturer does not produce or sell enough of one item to make full pallet shipping efficient. Goods may also travel through the supply chain un-palletized because they have been combined with other goods for more efficient shipping. This often happens when goods come from international destinations given the desire to fill a shipping container with multiple goods and/or from multiple manufacturers to reduce overall shipping costs. Un-palletized goods generally come stacked randomly in a truck trailer or shipping container. Our system can uniquely handle homogeneous and heterogeneous palletized and un-palletized goods. Regardless of type of good, our system generally functions as follows: Palletized Inbound: When pallets reach a warehouse, the pallets are placed into our automated system. Our large de-palletizing robotic cells use state of the art vision technology and our proprietary end-of-arm tools to pick up entire layers of goods and transfer them to our singulating robots that deconstruct the pallet down to the case level. Our singulating robots also use vision technology and other proprietary end-of-arm tools to orient each case optimally for storage and handling in our systems storage structure. The cases then enter the scan tunnel. Floor-Loaded Inbound: When un-palletized goods reach a warehouse, such as in traditional international shipping containers where goods are loaded from floor to ceiling without the use of pallets for quick unloading, they are placed into our automated system and the individual cases enter the scan tunnel just like palletized goods. 7 Table of Contents Scan Tunnel: On the way to the storage structure, each case proceeds through a short scan tunnel where our system uses vision technology and sensors to digitize the dimensions and attributes of each inbound case. Simultaneously, our system performs an integrity check of each case to screen for damage. If the case is damaged, it may be compromised as it moves through our system, and it may indicate damaged goods inside the case. Any case that our system determines is non-conforming or damaged is rejected by our system. An associate will either repair the case before re-induction into the system or reject the damaged goods. Storage Structure: The storage structure, where goods are placed, stored, and retrieved, is comprised of a number of levels stacked on top of each other. Each level is approximately three feet tall, allowing a typical thirty-two-foot-tall warehouse to have ten levels of storage which optimizes space utilization. Each level has a transfer deck that spans the width of the structure and connects several dozen aisles that extend horizontally at a 90-degree angle from the transfer deck. Our average sized system has 200,000 linear feet of storage. The levels are connected vertically by a series of lifts. Lifts: Upon exit from the scan tunnel, the case moves to a collection of lifts that function like a bank of elevators in a building. Simultaneously, our A.I.-enabled software determines the optimal location in the structure for storage of that case. When a case reaches the lift to which it is assigned, the lift extends its finger lift and picks up the case. The lift then brings the case to the appropriate level in the structure and places it onto a storage shelf where the case will be picked up by a Symbot. The Symbot will then bring the case to the aisle storage position for that level. Symbots: Symbots are our fully autonomous mobile goods handling robots. They are powered by rapid-charging ultracapacitors, so charging takes a matter of seconds as the Symbots drive over charge plates integrated into the floor of the storage structure. This eliminates the need for Symbots to come out of service for charging, which allows them to operate all day for weeks at a time. Our Symbots are interchangeable and hand off tasks to each other in a live operating system without productivity loss. If a Symbot does need maintenance, an individual Symbot can be removed from our system by remote instruction. The Symbot lifts each case from the bottom using fingers that extend under the case, rather than gripping and pulling, which enables handling of the case without putting them on trays. Trayless handling allows storage of cases within five millimeters of each other. The Symbot picks up a case from the lift and enters the transfer deck on its way to the appropriate aisle. The Symbot is routed by our proprietary A.I. software to the aisle and location where a case is to be placed. Once in the appropriate aisle, the Symbot accelerates rapidly up to 25 mph towards the specific location where it has been instructed to place the case. When the Symbot reaches the appropriate placement location, it extends its finger lift and places the case on the aisle position and is ready for its next task. In a typical size and configuration system, a Symbot can reach any location in our structure and return to our inbound or outbound cells in under four minutes. Retrieving a case is simply the reverse process of placing a case. Outbound: Our outbound lift retrieves cases delivered by Symbots and transfers them to the outbound level of our system. Our software utilizes the Symbots and lifts to sequence cases in an optimal order for outbound processing. Our system typically creates a pallet comprised of a variety of different goods and SKUs (known as a rainbow pallet). Our system can also create a rainbow pallet based upon a customers store plan. Specifically, the rainbow pallet can consist of products for a specific store aisle, which can be delivered directly from a truck to the end of an aisle so that store employees can unpack the cases from the pallet, replenish shelves quickly, and reduce store labor costs. Palletizing: Our system uses A.I.-enabled software that allows us to palletize cases using two robotic arms on opposite sides of a pallet. These two robotic arms work together placing a case onto a pallet in less than three seconds. Our Competitive Strengths We have significant advantages over our competitors because of our people, technologies, and experience, underpinned by decades of leadership in supply chain operations and innovation. Specifically, we benefit from the following competitive advantages: 8 Table of Contents Experienced, Founder-Led Leadership Team We are a founder-led company. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and significant shareholder, Richard B. Cohen, started Symbotic in 2006 to develop advanced technologies to make the supply chain work better for everyone. This vision was inspired by Mr. Cohens experiences building C&S Wholesale Grocers. Mr. Cohen is an accomplished business builder, as evidenced by his helping lead sales growth at C&S Wholesale Grocers from $14 million in 1974 to over $20 billion in 2023. Effectively running warehouse operations for the low margin grocery industry, Mr. Cohen has been building, running, and innovating warehouses for two generations. We believe our founders deep industry and operational expertise is a core competitive advantage for us. Mr. Cohen built a team of experienced board members and executives with a diverse range of technology expertise acquired at industry leading companies and institutions such as Amazon, The Boeing Company, Fortna, Manhattan Associates, MIT, SoftBank, Staples, Tesla, Toyota, and Walmart. Unique Team Culture Our team has harnessed first principles thinking to help us understand complex systems like supply chains and automation in simple, elemental ways. This approach unburdens our creativity from the constraints of legacy problem solving. First principles thinking also leads us to constantly question our established approaches to problems, freeing us to invent new technologies to improve the supply chain. Approximately half of our team is composed of software, mechanical, electrical, and systems engineers and scientists focused on our technology solutions. As a result, we have developed or created a significant amount of intellectual property protecting our core technology, including a patent portfolio with over 700 patent filings. First Mover Advantage with Differentiated System Architecture We believe we have developed highly unique system architecture, which uses fully autonomous robots at scale and in real world supply chain applications. The advantages of this approach are so compelling, as measured by performance data in real world applications, that we believe our system can become the de facto standard approach for how warehouses operate. Superior System Return on Investment Based on quantifiable metrics, our system provides our customers with rapid recovery of investment costs and a compelling return on investment. Superior Product Throughput: The high density of our system, the optimized and randomized storage of our architecture, and the speed and agility of our autonomous mobile robots minimizes movement to increase throughput, enhances SKU agility, and reduces the number of robots required to distribute product. High Density System & Storage: Partial pallets represent an increased level of on-hand inventory and leave unused volume within the warehouse. Volume adds expense because it has a storage cost and adds movement distance that slows down the movement of goods through the supply chain. By managing goods at the case and tote level, rather than at the pallet level, our system removes unused space from the warehouse, stores merchandise more densely, and increases the speed of product throughput. 9 Table of Contents No Compromise Retrofit: The modularity of our system allows us to install our system in existing warehouses while achieving full performance benefits. We are also able to install our system in phases, which allows the warehouse to continue to operate while the transition to our system is underway. Inventory Reduction & SKU Agility: The accuracy, throughput speed, and density of our system allows our customers to achieve a higher level of availability and maintain a wider range of SKU variety with less inventory. Fulfillment Accuracy: Our digitization strategy, A.I.-enabled store/retrieve software and other automated systems contribute to the 99.9999% fulfillment accuracy of our system. System Resilience: Our system-of-systems architecture philosophy eliminates single points of failure, which enhances system resiliency. We utilize a redundant array of autonomous robots, lifts, and inbound and outbound palletizing systems. This allows any part of our system to assume the task load of another system part if any sub-system fails. In addition, our hardware and software are engineered for rapid serviceability utilizing field-replaceable components wherever possible. System Scalability: Our system can be scaled to fit the needs of our customers and scale of their facilities. We are also able to install our systems in phases, allowing the warehouse facility to continue to operate while the transition to our system is underway. We can easily reconfigure and expand our system to accommodate SKU proliferation as our customers needs and strategies evolve. Remaining Performance Obligations (Backlog) As of September 28, 2024, we had approximately $22.4 billion of backlog of orders from our customers, of which approximately 10% is expected to be recognized as revenue in fiscal year 2025. The backlog is largely structured to maintain our gross profit targets even in times of high inflation or supply chain related price increases. For example, in most cases, increases in steel prices are passed on to the customer, preserving our gross profit. Our contracts do not contain termination for convenience clauses. Outside of insolvency, or specific change in control provisions, most of our backlog can only be terminated if we do not deliver the System with its defined performance standards, which we believe to be unlikely. In addition, because our System significantly reduces our customers costs, contract termination by our customers would be costly and disruptive to their operations, enhancing our ability to retain our customers. Backbone of Commerce Our expertise has been established at the front end of the supply chain because our system handshakes directly with producers and manufacturers who are the first node in the supply chain. Our system is the backbone of commerce because our optimized case handling capability benefits all nodes downstream in the supply chain. Our system has a strategic impact for our customers and is mission critical for daily operations. We believe this will result in high rates of customer retention. We are also prototyping our second generation of Breakpack system, a full-scale, individual unit handling application, that can be integrated into our case handling system, and be installed in the warehouse. We believe this capability is unique and will drive supply chain efficiency through reduced handling and the ability to buffer inventory at either the precise unit, or case count. We believe our competitive positioning is highly differentiated because our upstream expertise facilitates our integration with other downstream applications, including our Breakpack system. Our system resides upstream in the supply chain from systems for e-commerce fulfillment centers. Our competitors have not established automated case level storage or warehouse expertise, which makes their upstream integration significantly more challenging than our downstream integration. Our Market Opportunity We define our primary addressable market as the total potential spend on our system over the next 15 years for U.S. warehouses in the general merchandise, ambient grocery, ambient food distribution, consumer packaged food, and apparel verticals. We estimate the size of our initial addressable market to be $144 billion based on the number of warehouses in each of those verticals, our estimates of the percent of warehouses in each vertical that are addressable, and the expected average price of our system and associated recurring revenue. We estimate that there is an additional $126 billion in market opportunity from our secondary verticals (non-food consumer packaged goods, home improvement, auto parts, third-party logistics, and refrigerated and frozen foods). 10 Table of Contents Over time we plan to expand beyond our primary and secondary target verticals, into additional verticals such as pharmaceuticals and electronics. To capture the size of this broader market opportunity, we estimate the size of these additional verticals in the United States at an additional $52 billion (using the same methodology we use for our primary and secondary verticals). We also plan to expand to Europe, and further expand within Canada, so we define our total addressable market as our total U.S. market opportunity of $321 billion plus our market opportunity in Canada and Europe, which we estimate to be an additional $111 billion. This implies a total addressable market of $432 billion. To estimate our market opportunity in Europe and Canada we assume the number of warehouses in each country relative to the number of warehouses in the U.S. is proportionate to their relative GDPs. We then multiply the resulting number of warehouses by our estimate for the percent of those warehouses that are addressable and by our estimate for the average price of our system and associated recurring revenue outside the U.S. After the fiscal year completed, we also began our first expansion into Latin America. The GreenBox joint venture was established to serve the needs of outsourced case handling. Generally known as third-party logistics, our focus is on the warehouse-as-a-service (WaaS) market (WaaS Market). The WaaS Market has witnessed significant growth in recent years, driven by the increasing demand for flexible and scalable warehousing solutions. As businesses focus on optimizing their supply chain operations, WaaS has emerged as a strategic alternative to captive warehouses, offering on-demand access to warehouse facilities, advanced inventory management systems, and technology-driven logistics solutions that benefit from automation and A.I. We believe the WaaS Market has the potential for sustained growth, underpinned by the rise of globalization, outsourcing, e-commerce, and the evolving preferences of businesses seeking cost-effective and agile warehousing solutions. Our Growth Strategy The key elements of our strategy for growth include the following: Further penetrate customers operations: Our customers are large companies, many of which have thousands of stores and hundreds of warehouses and distribution centers. Under our customer contracts, we are converting a portion of these customers warehouses and distribution centers in the United States to our system. We fully expect that the value these customers receive from our system will translate into winning full deployments at the remainder of their warehouses and distribution centers and therefore, we expect to grow our market share. Win additional customers in existing verticals: Given the size of our primary serviceable addressable market relative to the size of our customer base, there is significant room for us to expand in our primary addressable market. We have numerous other potential customers in various stages of the sales cycle and we expect to win new customers in our primary addressable market. Expand into new verticals: We believe that every vertical that involves the physical distribution of goods through a warehouse or distribution center is a potential customer. We have the intention and technological capability to expand into the non-food consumer packaged goods, auto parts, and third-party logistics verticals. Additionally, as we build our refrigerated and frozen capabilities, we intend to expand into these verticals. Expand product offerings: We intend to expand our product suite to increase our value to our customers and to attract new customers. For example, by building our integrated item handling application, we can help our customers manage an increasing variety of SKUs and optimize their e-commerce operations. We can also increase our appeal to pure-play e-commerce retailers. Because our system is designed to integrate third-party applications, we are also exploring opportunities to expand our product suite through partnerships, investments, and acquisitions. Finally, we are exploring new business models, specifically by adding reverse logistics and WaaS offerings. These future anticipated products are not included in our current support and maintenance arrangements. Geographic Expansion: We intend to expand beyond the United States and Canada. We are currently evaluating opportunities in Europe and the Middle East, and after our fiscal year completed, began our first expansion into Latin America. WaaS: We are addressing the WaaS market through our GreenBox joint venture, which we believe is positioned to leverage our expertise and the technology of our system to capture opportunities, meet evolving customer needs, and drive sustainable value for our shareholders. 11 Table of Contents Competition Most of our primary market relies on conventional manual and semi-mechanized systems that are labor intensive. There are several point solutions available in the market that automate certain components of the warehouse or distribution center, but few offer comprehensive systems. Those that do typically require a significant greenfield real estate investment. Some point solutions such as specific goods-to-people robotics or pick and pack robotic arm solutions address only specific supply chain functions but do not maximize the efficiency of the supply chain as a whole. These solutions also must be integrated with other disparate technologies, which often comes at significant cost and time and adds latency to operations. The companies that offer comprehensive solutions, most notably Witron, Honeywell, Dematic, Vanderlande, Knapp AG, SSI Schaefer, and Swisslog, have systems that are composed of a disparate set of mechanically complex point solutions, with numerous single points of failure. These systems are challenging to implement and expensive to adapt to changing customer needs and SKU variation. Even the comprehensive mechanical systems require significant manual labor. They are frequently based on pallet and partial pallet storage techniques, which require additional inventory and warehouse space. Amazon Kiva, Exotec, Ocado, and AutoStore focus exclusively on individual order fulfillment. We do not consider them to be direct competitors because we are focused on fulfillment to physical stores. They focus primarily on e-commerce and lack case picking technology. Therefore, they cannot support large retailers with both online and offline operations. However, they may become partners or competitors if we expand into e-commerce or if they expand to brick-and-mortar retail. Customers Customer Base We have a strong blue chip customer base that includes some of the worlds largest retailers and wholesale grocers, including Walmart, Albertsons, our affiliate C&S Wholesale Grocers, GreenBox, and Target. Walmart We have worked with Walmart since 2015 and entered into the initial Walmart Master Automation Agreement (MAA) in 2017 and restated and amended that agreement in January 2019. On April 30, 2021, we amended the Walmart MAA to expand our commercial relationship with Walmart and the scope of the Walmart MAA to the implementation of systems across 25 of Walmarts 42 regional distribution centers. On May 20, 2022, we again amended and restated the Walmart MAA to further expand our commercial relationship with Walmart and the scope of the Walmart MAA to the implementation of additional systems across all of Walmarts 42 regional distribution centers. The amendment and restated Walmart MAA added approximately an additional $6.1 billion to our backlog. The implementation of our systems under the Walmart MAA began in 2021 and will continue based upon an agreed-upon timeline, subject to limited adjustment, with the implementation of all systems to begin by the end of 2029. For each system, Walmart pays us: the cost of implementation, including the cost of material and labor, plus a specified net profit amount, subject in certain cases to a capped cost amount; for software maintenance and support for a minimum of 15 years following preliminary acceptance of the system and with annual renewals thereafter; and for spare parts. Walmart also pays us for operation services for systems installed in the first four buildings for an operation service period for each system that ends on the third anniversary of preliminary acceptance of the final system installed in a building. The initial term of the Walmart MAA expires on May 20, 2034 with annual renewals of the term thereafter. At any time, either party may terminate the Walmart MAA in the event of insolvency of the other party or a material breach of the other party that has not been cured. Walmart may also terminate the Walmart MAA at any time if we fail to meet certain performance standards or undergo certain change of control transactions. Pursuant to the Walmart MAA, we must provide Walmart notice in certain circumstances, including if we explore transactions other than the Business Combination that would reasonably be expected to result in a change of control or sale of 25% or more of the voting power of Symbotic. Such transactions are prohibited for specified time periods following such notice, and we must allow Walmart to participate on terms and conditions substantially similar to those of other third-party 12 Table of Contents participants. We have also agreed to certain restrictions on our ability to sell or license our products and services to a specified company or its subsidiaries, affiliates, or dedicated service providers. On December 12, 2021, we entered into an Investment and Subscription Agreement (the Investment and Subscription Agreement) with Walmart. Pursuant to such agreement, in connection with the amendment and restatement of the Walmart MAA on May 20, 2022, Walmart exercised a warrant to purchase 267,281 units of Warehouse, or 3.7% of the total outstanding units of Warehouse at such time as calculated following the exercise of the warrant and issuance of units thereunder, at an aggregate purchase price of $103,980,327. We also issued Walmart a new warrant to purchase 258,972 units of Warehouse, or 3.5% of the total outstanding units of Warehouse at such time as calculated on a pro forma basis at the time of the issuance of the warrant, subject to customary adjustments, at an exercise price of $614.34 per unit, which is the estimated value of a unit of Warehouse on the date of the Merger Agreement based on the Exchange Ratio assuming one share of Class A Common Stock is $10.00. In connection with the Closing of the Business Combination, the warrant to purchase 258,972 units of Warehouse converted into a new warrant to acquire up to an aggregate of 15,870,411 common units of Symbotic Holdings. This warrant vested and was exercised at an exercise price of $10.00 per common unit, for an aggregate purchase price of $158,704,110. Pursuant to the Investment and Subscription Agreement and as a result of the warrant exercise, Walmart has the right to designate a Walmart employee of a certain seniority level to attend all meetings of the Board in a nonvoting observer capacity, except in certain circumstances, including where such observers attendance may be inconsistent with the directors fiduciary duties to the Company or where such meetings may involve attorney-client privileged information, a conflict of interest between the Company and Walmart or information that the Company determines is competitively or commercially sensitive. Additionally, pursuant to the Investment and Subscription Agreement and subject to certain exceptions described therein, Walmart is subject to a standstill agreement that limits Walmarts ability to pursue certain transactions with respect to Warehouse and the Company until the earlier of (i) December 12, 2025 and (ii) the later of (a) the date on which Walmart owns less than 5% of the fully diluted equity interests of Warehouse or, after the closing of the Business Combination (the Closing), the Company and (b) the date that is six months after Walmart no longer has the board observer rights described above. GreenBox On July 21, 2023, in conjunction with entities related to the SoftBank Group, we established GreenBox Systems LLC, a strategic joint venture to build and automate supply chain networks globally by operating and financing our advanced A.I. and automation technology for the warehouse. We own 35% of GreenBox and SoftBank Group owns 65% of GreenBox. On July 23, 2023, we entered into a commercial agreement with GreenBox that sets forth the terms, conditions, rights and obligations governing the design, installation, implementation and operation of our system for GreenBox. On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, the commercial agreement provides for a commitment from GreenBox to expend at least $7.5 billion in the aggregate to purchase our systems over a six-year period pursuant to an agreed-upon timeline with implementation of our systems which began in fiscal year 2024. For each system, GreenBox will pay us: (i) the cost of implementation, including the cost of material and labor, plus a specified net profit amount; (ii) for software maintenance and support; and (iii) for spare parts and other miscellaneous expenses. The initial term of the commercial agreement with GreenBox expires on July 23, 2027, subject to a two-year extension by GreenBox if, at the end of the initial term, project SOWs (as defined in the commercial agreement) have not been executed with respect to our systems with an aggregate purchase price of GreenBoxs purchase commitment. At any time, either party may terminate the commercial agreement in the event of insolvency of the other party or a material breach of the other party that has not been cured. Products Our system is typically sold in three parts: the initial system sale, software maintenance and support services, and operation services. Our system is a modular, highly configurable capital asset purchase that we sell to our customer in the year of deployment. Over the remaining system life, which is typically 25-30 years, we charge a software maintenance and support fee. Finally, we provide training and system operation until the customer assumes operational duties. Our typical deployment model is to build and install the system, operate the system for a limited time and then transfer daily operation to the customer. 13 Table of Contents Symbotic System Capabilities We implement a comprehensive automated solution for product distribution at the heart of the supply chain. We have spent over 15 years working at the confluence of product manufacturing and retail distribution to produce a fully automated system that allows more efficient handling, storage, selection, and transportation of goods once they are placed into the supply chain by manufacturers. We have accomplished this by combining smart software with smart hardware such as our autonomous mobile robots. The power of our system is that the components and applications work together in one system-of-systems to provide the results our customers experience. Our system is capable of handling each case from initiation at the warehouse or distribution center to final placement on pallets to be transported to customer stores. Technologies Our technologies are categorized into both hardware and software components, which work together to deliver the full comprehensive system to our customers. Key elements of the hardware and software components are as follows: Intelligent Autonomous Mobile Robots: Our intelligent, autonomous mobile robots utilize a suite of sensors to handle cases and locate, retrieve, and transport approximately 80% of the SKUs in our customers facilities at speeds of up to 25 mph (10 times faster than the average human) with 99.9999% accuracy. Our newest version of these robots uses vision technology in addition to our autonomous routing algorithms to achieve optimal speed, safety, and routing. A.I.Enabled Software: Our system utilizes A.I. technologies in a variety of ways to dynamically achieve optimal performance and improve over time. For example, our system can independently determine the best locations to store inventory in the structure to improve outbound efficiency. In addition, the software enables our autonomous robots to independently place and retrieve various sizes of goods with different package material, make corrections to account for product movement, and efficiently navigate through our system to complete the systems objectives in the shortest amount of time and at the lowest cost. Our software also dynamically responds to changes in inventory availability to fulfill customer orders on time. By using A.I. tools to process all the data our system is generating, our system is improved by the tasks it performs. This helps us to develop algorithmic innovations that further improve system performance over time. System Manager: The System Manager balances work across the inbound and outbound cells of our system. It does this by managing inbound inventory and inventory levels in the storage structure against fulfillment orders, optimized to fulfillment gate times. The System Manager creates the pallet build plan based on a variety of factors including inventory on hand. It also stores and aisles specific plan-o-grams, pallet structure, and even more granular criteria such as isolating hazardous goods that require special handling. Storage & Retrieval Engine: Our Storage and Retrieval Engine coordinates the mechanical components within our system such as our autonomous robots, storage shelves, and lifts. It also determines, orders, and assigns all the tasks to be performed by our system. Finally, the Storage and Retrieval Engine manages safety within our system by monitoring physical access and related zonal lockouts. The engine builds a put-away task list as goods are received that is based on put-away optimization, which determines the best placement of goods within the storage structure. Simultaneously, the engine builds a retrieval task list based on fulfillment requests. Since the flow of goods through our system is highly dynamic and the related parameters are constantly changing, the engine reoptimizes every task that needs to be completed multiple times per second. The re-optimization is based on the supply of goods, the location of those goods, and the storage shelves available within the storage structure. Next, the location and status of every part of our system and every case of goods is evaluated, and mobile robot routes are assigned to optimally perform all the put-away and retrieval tasks. As tasks are reassigned, the routes of the mobile robot are recomputed. Real-Time Data Analytics Software: Our proprietary software aggregates and synthesizes system data to provide real-time analytics and actionable insights regarding inventory levels, system throughput, accuracy, and performance. We also collect and analyze real-time data on various parts of our system to evaluate health, predict maintenance needs, and as a result maintain a high level of system performance. A.I.-Powered De-Palletizing Robotic Cells: Our proprietary de-palletizing robotic end of arm tools, coupled with our A.I. and state-of-the-art vision enhanced robotic arms de-palletize up to 1,800 cases and 200 SKU layers per hour. During de-palletization, we scan each case to create a digital model, including, among other things, its size, 14 Table of Contents stability, and density. This allows our A.I.-enabled software to optimize storage, retrieval, and palletizing for distribution to stores based upon an individual cases characteristics. A.I.-Powered Palletizing Robotic Cells: Using proprietary A.I.-enabled software, state-of-the-art vision enhanced palletizing robotic arms and our patented end of arm tools we combine multiple SKUs into aisle-ready pallets that significantly reduce in-store labor costs for our brick-and-mortar customers while maximizing pallet capacity and throughput. Our palletizing robotic application uses two robots simultaneously to palletize product rapidly and efficiently. Research and Development We have invested over $800 million in developing technology for our system, which is protected by over 700 issued and/or pending patents. Our engineers have extensive robotics and software experience and have been working on our product portfolio for over 15 years. We conduct our research and development at our headquarters in Wilmington, Massachusetts and at our Canadian headquarters in Montreal, Quebec. Our research and development activities currently include programs in the following areas: Expand the capabilities and improve our technology: We aim to continuously advance our hardware and software development to offer better solutions to our customers that benefit their needs. Specifically, we intend to continue innovating our robust A.I.-enabled robots alongside our proprietary software to continue to help our customers optimize operational efficiency. Expand system offerings: As our existing customers needs shift and expand, we will innovate, evolve and be flexible. We will continue to innovate our existing systems as well as introduce new offerings in specific areas for which we do not have a solution, such as tailoring our System to handle non-ambient foods. This will not only allow us to deepen our penetration within existing customers, but also grow our customer base in adjacent applications. Sales and Marketing We go to market via a direct sales model. Given the size, complexity, and value of our system, our sales have come from long-term discussions between our management team and senior-level executives at our customers. As we progress, we intend to accelerate our sales cycle as we begin to expand our marketing efforts and transition from a small number of very large transactions to more widespread adoption of our system. Manufacturing and Suppliers We operate a repair/service facility center with engineering support in Wilmington, Massachusetts, and a facility with additional engineering support in Montreal, Quebec. Our Wilmington facility services previously manufactured autonomous mobile robots, whereas today it is dedicated to warranty processing and repair of field returns. Our facility in Montreal conducts testing and engineering developmental work on de-palletizing and palletizing robotic cells. Each facility is staffed with a mix of permanent and temporary employees to manage peak workload and can operate two shifts when needed. We manufacture with third-party contract manufacturers which has allowed us to efficiently scale production capabilities, optimize resources, and foster agility in meeting growing market demand. We also purchase lifts, fixed place robots, conveyors, and steel racking equipment from a wide range of vendors to complete our systems. Intellectual Property Our ability to drive innovation in the robotics and A.I. automation markets depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and the intellectual property therein and thereto. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights in our core technology through a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets. This includes the use of non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with our contractors and employees and the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, vendors, and business partners. Unpatented research, development, know-how, and engineering skills make an important contribution to our business and core technology, but we pursue patent protection when we believe it is possible and consistent with our overall strategy for safeguarding our intellectual property. As of September 28, 2024, we had over 475 issued patents in 14 countries and over 225 additional patents pending worldwide. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire between May 2025 and October 2043. 15 Table of Contents Employees and Human Capital Resources Our employees are critical to our success. As of September 28, 2024, we had approximately 1,650 full-time employees, including approximately 1,600 based in the United States. Approximately 40% of our employees are based out of our Wilmington, Massachusetts and Montreal, Quebec locations. The remaining majority of employees install, commission, operate, or maintain our systems at customers facilities. We also engage consultants and contractors to supplement our permanent workforce on an as needed basis. A significant proportion of our employees are engaged in engineering, research and development, and related functions. We have been investing in our people for over a decade and our team possesses decades of combined technical and engineering experience, with a majority of our full-time employees holding technical degrees and a substantial portion of our total employee base holding advanced degrees, including numerous PhDs in engineering or related fields. We consider our relationship with our employees to be in good standing and have not experienced any work stoppages. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement or represented by a labor union. Our human capital resources objectives include, as applicable, recruiting, integrating, developing, motivating, and retaining our existing and new employees. The principal purposes of our incentive plans are to attract, retain, and motivate key employees, directors, and consultants through cash and stock performance rewards and other benefits. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion As a leader in warehouse automation, we are dedicated to building a vibrant and diverse robotics organization globally. By fostering a culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, we strive for a workplace that celebrates the uniqueness of each employee and embraces diversity to enable innovation as we reimagine the supply chain industry. Talent Attraction Our ability to attract and retain key talent is crucial to the success of our business. We invest in talent acquisition initiatives to have the right people in key positions. Our workforce strategy includes recruiting top talent, building a talent pipeline through university partnerships, providing ongoing training and development opportunities, and fostering a workplace culture that promotes innovation and collaboration. In the coming years, we anticipate continued competition for skilled professionals in our industry, and our talent acquisition strategy will focus on building our reputation as a destination for top talent and recruiting individuals with expertise in robotics and industrial automation. Talent Management The engagement, development, and retention of employees is critical to meet our priorities and deliver braggingly happy customers. All management levels are engaged in talent management practices. Our board of directors discusses key talent strategy in each regular board meeting, including periodic detailed discussions of our global leadership talent, with a focus on key positions at the executive leader level. We recognize that investing in strong talent management practices drives business performance, customer satisfaction, and employee engagement. Therefore, our talent interventions utilize various tools such as an annual performance management process, individual development interventions to facilitate a specific individuals career growth, and development programs and learning plans to meet each employee where they are in their career. High-potential leaders are given exposure and visibility to members of our board of directors through formal project assignments and board presentations. We provide growth opportunities through formal and informal development programs that include training, coaching, networking, skills development, and on-the-job experience. In fiscal year 2024, we implemented management training to enable sustainable growth, support effective scaling, and foster a highly engaged workforce. Competitive Pay and Benefits At Symbotic, we have designed our compensation plans to attract and retain the best talent in the industry. Our goal is to drive employee performance by aligning incentive pay with short and long-term company results. Our employee benefit programs are comprehensive and competitive, and we continuously evaluate them to ensure that they are competitive and effective. 16 Table of Contents Government Regulations Compliance with various governmental regulations has an impact on our business, including our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position, which can be material. We incur costs to monitor and take actions to comply with governmental regulations that are applicable to our business, which include, among others, laws, regulations and permitting requirements of federal, state and local authorities, including related to environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and export controls. Environmental Matters We are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including, but not limited to, emissions into the air and water and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances. A certain risk of environmental liability is inherent in our production activities, operation of our system and the disposal of our system. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the generation, use, storage, registration, handling and disposal of chemicals and waste materials, the presence of specified substances in electrical products, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, including any contamination that results from spills due to our failure to properly dispose of chemicals and other waste materials and the health and safety of our employees. Export and Trade Matters We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations imposed by governments around the world with jurisdiction over our operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the laws of the countries where we do business. We are also subject to various trade restrictions, including trade and economic sanctions and export controls, imposed by governments around the world with jurisdiction over our operations. For example, in accordance with trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control and export controls administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, we are prohibited from engaging in transactions involving certain persons and certain designated countries or territories, including Cuba, Iran, Syria, North Korea and the Crimea Region of Ukraine. In addition, our system may be subject to export regulations that can involve significant compliance time and may add additional overhead cost to our system. In recent years the United States government has a renewed focus on export matters. For example, the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 and regulatory guidance thereunder have imposed additional controls and may result in the imposition of further additional controls, on the export of certain emerging and foundational technologies. Our current and future system may be subject to these heightened regulations, which could increase our compliance costs. See Risk FactorsOther RisksWe are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations and could face criminal liability and other serious consequences for violations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for additional information about the anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws that may affect our business. Employment Matters We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of our employees. In addition to the requirements of the state and local governments of the communities in which we operate, we must comply with federal health and safety regulations, the most significant of which are enforced by Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). While we believe that we comply with all applicable worker safety regulations in the U.S. as governed by OSHA and our global sites meet all local regulations for worker safety, we cannot ensure that our compliance program will prevent the violation of one or more laws or regulations, or that a violation by us or an employee will not result in the imposition of a monetary fine. Data Privacy Because we handle, collect, store, receive, transmit and otherwise process certain personal information of users and employees, we are also subject to federal, state and foreign laws related to the privacy and protection of such data, including the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union. The scope of data privacy laws and regulations worldwide continues to evolve, and we anticipate that the number of data privacy laws and the scope of individual data privacy and protection rights will increase. 17 Table of Contents We have developed internal compliance programs in an effort to comply with legal and regulatory requirements for warehouse automation industry and with respect to data privacy and security. For example, our compliance programs include product design safety reviews. While we are firmly committed to full compliance with all applicable laws and have developed appropriate policies and procedures in order to comply with the requirements of the evolving regulatory regimes, we cannot ensure that our compliance program will prevent the violation of one or more laws or regulations, or that a violation by us or an employee will not result in the imposition of a monetary fine. Available Information Our internet address is www.symbotic.com. Our website and the information contained therein or linked thereto are not part of this Annual Report. We make available free of charge through our internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business and the Company, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenue, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects, in which case the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. The material and other risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, reputation, revenue, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Risk Factor Summary Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry, including: We are a growing company with a limited operating history and a history of losses. We have not been profitable historically and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the near term or at all, and it is difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We depend heavily on our larger customers, and therefore, our success is heavily dependent on their ability to grow their businesses and their adoption of our System. C&S Wholesale Grocers, an important customer, is our affiliate. Despite our affiliation with C&S Wholesale Grocers, there is no guarantee that it will continue to be a customer beyond the term of its current contracts with us. We may fail to realize anticipated benefits of the GreenBox joint venture, or it may disrupt our ongoing operations or result in operating difficulties, liabilities and expenses, harm our business, and negatively impact our results of operations. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from period to period, which could make our future operating results difficult to predict or cause our operating results to fall below analysts and investors expectations. Complex technology will need to be developed, both in-house and in coordination with our vendors and suppliers, for us to successfully produce and integrate our System with our customers existing warehouses, and there can be no assurance that they will be successfully developed. We rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. Any disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The markets in which we participate are competitive. Many companies, including large retail and e-commerce companies, companies that offer point solutions or other comprehensive or specific supply chain functionalities and other companies that focus on automated technologies, may target the markets in which we do business. Additionally, our customers and potential customers may develop in-house solutions that compete with our System. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop new solutions, adapt to technological change, sell our software, services and System into new markets or further penetrate our existing markets, our revenue may not grow as expected. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing business needs, requirements or preferences, our System may become less competitive. If demand for our System does not grow as we expect, or if market adoption of A.I.-enabled robotics and supply chain automation solutions does not continue to develop, or develops slower than we expect, our future revenue may stagnate or decline and our business may be adversely affected. Supply chain interruptions may increase our costs or reduce our revenue. Risks related to being a public company, including that: We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting and our management has identified material weaknesses. If our remediation of the material weaknesses is not effective, or we identify additional material weaknesses or other adverse findings in the future, our ability to report our financial condition or results of operations accurately or timely or prevent fraud may be adversely affected, which may result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies, and ultimately have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risk related to intellectual property, including that: We may need to bring, or defend ourselves against, IP infringement or misappropriation claims, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by limiting our ability to use certain IP and causing us to incur substantial costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and the value of our brand, System and other intangible assets may be diminished if we are unable to maintain and protect our IP (including maintaining the confidentiality and control of our proprietary source code and other trade secrets) from unauthorized use, infringement or misappropriation by third parties. Risks related to cybersecurity, software deficiencies, service interruptions and data privacy, including that: We have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience further cybersecurity incidents or security breaches of our IT or OT in the future, which may result in system disruptions, shutdowns, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential or personal information. Our ability to efficiently manage and expand our business depends significantly on the reliability, capacity and protection of our IT. Real or perceived failures or security breaches of our IT could disrupt our operations, lead to loss of proprietary information, damage our relationships with customers, result in regulatory investigations and penalties, lead to liability, negatively impact our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to ownership of our common stock, including that: Our common stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance; you may lose some or all of your investment. Risks related to our organizational structure, including that: The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our founder, certain family members of our founder and certain affiliated entities and trusts of our founder and his family members; this will limit or preclude your ability to influence our corporate matters. We share certain key executives with C&S Wholesale Grocers, an important customer, which means those executives will not devote their full time and attention to our affairs, and the overlap may give rise to conflicts. Pursuant to the TRA, we are required to make payments to equity holders of New Symbotic Holdings for certain tax benefits we may claim, and those payments may be substantial. Other risks, including that: 19 Table of Contents We implemented a new enterprise resource planning system, and challenges with the implementation of the system may impact our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to we, us and our refer to Symbotic. We are a growing company with a limited operating history and a history of losses. We have not been profitable historically and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the near term or at all, and it is difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We face significant risks and difficulties as a growing company. We have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate the viability and sustainability of our technology and processes, which increases the risk to your investment. In addition, we have an accumulated deficit of $1.3 billion as of September 28, 2024 and have incurred recurring net losses since inception, including net losses of $84.7 million and $207.9 million, respectively, for the years ended September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023. We could continue to incur operating losses in the near term as we continue to invest significantly in our business to position us for future growth, including expending substantial financial and other resources on: product development, including investments in our product development team and the development of new products and new functionality for our supply chain automation system (System), as well as investments in further optimizing our System, technology and infrastructure; our technology infrastructure, including systems, architecture, scalability, availability, performance and security; acquisitions and strategic transactions; our international operations and anticipated international expansion; and general administration, including increased legal, compliance and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. These efforts may be costlier than we expect, and our revenue may not grow at a rate to offset these expenses. We may make investments that do not generate optimal short- or medium-term financial results and may even incur increased operating losses in the short- or medium-term with no assurance that we will eventually achieve the intended long-term benefits or profitability. Our investments in our System, technology and services, may not be successful on the timeline we anticipate or at all and may not result in increased revenue growth. Additionally, we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known or unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our revenue growth does not meet our expectations in future periods, or we are unable to maintain or increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability over the long term. As our business expands, our historical results may not be indicative of our future performance and you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties of growing companies operating in fast evolving high-tech industries in emerging markets. As a result, it is difficult to predict our future revenue or appropriately budget for our expenses. If actual results differ from our estimates, or we adjust our estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial position could be materially affected. We depend heavily on our larger customers, and therefore, our success is heavily dependent on their ability to grow their businesses and their adoption of our System. Walmart, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 87% of our total revenue in the fiscal year ended September 28, 2024 and for a significant portion of our $22.4 billion backlog as of September 28, 2024. We have worked with Walmart since 2015 and entered into a Master Automation Agreement with Walmart in 2017 to implement our System in 25 of Walmarts 42 regional distribution centers. We amended and restated the Master Automation Agreement on May 20, 2022 (Walmart MAA) to implement our System in all of Walmarts 42 regional distribution centers, adding approximately an additional $6.1 billion to our backlog. Pursuant to the Walmart MAA, we have agreed to certain restrictions on our ability to 20 Table of Contents sell or license our products and services to a specified company or its subsidiaries, affiliates or dedicated service providers. Walmart also has certain board observation rights. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we entered into a commercial agreement with Walmart de Mxico y Centroamrica to implement our System in two of their locations near Mexico City. Our ability to maintain a close, mutually beneficial relationship with Walmart is an important element in our continued growth. The loss or cancellation of business from Walmart, including our failure to properly implement or optimize our System in Walmarts distribution centers, or our failure to comply with the terms of the Walmart MAA, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, if Walmart is not able to grow its business or its business declines, including as a result of a reduction in the level of discretionary spending by its customers or competition from other retailers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have several larger customers, AFS, GreenBox and C&S Wholesale Grocers, Inc. (C&S Wholesale Grocers), with which we are affiliated, and UNFI. Net sales to these customers accounted for approximately 11% of our total revenue in the fiscal year ended September 28, 2024. It is not possible for us to predict the level of demand that will be generated by any of these customers in the future. In addition, revenue from these larger customers may fluctuate from time to time based on these customers business needs and customer experience, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions or other factors outside of our control. To the extent that one or more customers in this group decide not to implement our System in their distribution centers or decide to retain manual solutions or adopt single point automated solutions for their distribution centers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. C&S Wholesale Grocers, an important customer, is our affiliate. Despite our affiliation with C&S Wholesale Grocers, there is no guarantee that it will continue to be a customer beyond the term of its current contracts with us. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard B. Cohen, also serves as the Executive Chairman of C&S Wholesale Grocers. Additionally, Mr. Cohen and trusts for the benefit of his family are the only beneficial stockholders of C&S Wholesale Grocers. As a result, C&S Wholesale Grocers can be considered an affiliate of ours. C&S Wholesale Grocers is also an important customer that has our Systems that are Operational in its facilities. We provide ongoing Software Maintenance and Support and Operation Services under our contracts with C&S through September 2029. Despite our affiliation with C&S Wholesale Grocers, there is no guarantee that it will continue to be a customer beyond the term of its current contracts with us in September 2029. To the extent C&S Wholesale Grocers decides not to renew its contracts with us or to implement additional Systems in their distribution centers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may fail to realize anticipated benefits of the GreenBox joint venture, or it may disrupt our ongoing operations or result in operating difficulties, liabilities and expenses, harm our business, and negatively impact our results of operations. The GreenBox joint venture and related commercial agreement are expected to be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain the benefits, avoid the difficulties and risks of the joint venture, or it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the GreenBox joint venture. Those benefits and synergies may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations The GreenBox joint venture may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. In addition, we cannot assure you that the GreenBox joint venture will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from period to period, which could make our future operating results difficult to predict or cause our operating results to fall below analysts and investors expectations. Our operating results and financial condition fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which will not be within our control. Both our business and supply chain automation are changing and evolving rapidly, and our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. If our operating results do not meet the guidance that we provide to the marketplace or the expectations of 21 Table of Contents securities analysts or investors, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may be due to a number of factors, including: the portion of our revenue attributable to software license and maintenance fees and System operation service fees versus milestone payments for System installation and other sales; changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing actions; the ability of our equipment vendors to continue to manufacture high-quality products and to supply sufficient products to meet our demands; the impact of shortages of components, commodities or other materials, including semiconductors and integrated circuits, and other supply chain disruptions; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the equipment we purchase; the timing and success of introductions of new solutions, products or upgrades by us or our competitors; changes in our business and pricing policies or those of our competitors; competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors; our ability to successfully manage any past or future acquisitions, strategic transactions and integrations of businesses; our ability to obtain, maintain, protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights (IP) and maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets; the amount and timing of expenditures, including those related to expanding our operations, increasing research and development, improving facilities and introducing new supply chain automation solutions; the ability to effectively manage growth within existing and new markets domestically and abroad; changes in the payment terms for our System; the strength of regional, national and global economies; the impact of cybersecurity incidents or security breaches; and the impact of natural disasters, health pandemics or man-made problems such as terrorism. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should not rely on quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of our future performance. Complex technology will need to be developed, both in-house and in coordination with our vendors and suppliers, for us to successfully produce and integrate our System with our customers existing warehouses, and there can be no assurance that they will be successfully developed. Our System requires a substantial amount of third-party and proprietary in-house software and complex hardware to be installed and operated in our customers warehouses. The development of such advanced technologies is inherently complex and costly, and we will need to coordinate with our vendors and suppliers to produce and integrate our System with our customers infrastructure. In the future, one or more of our third-party software or hardware providers may choose not to support the operation of their software, software services and infrastructure with our System, or our System may not support the capabilities needed to operate with such software, software services and infrastructure. Defects and errors may be revealed over time (and may not even be known until after our System has been deployed to our customers) and our control over the performance of third-party services and systems may be limited. We may be unable to develop the necessary technology or meet the technological requirements and production timing to support our business plan. In addition, our System may not comply with the cost, performance useful life and warranty requirements we anticipate in our business plan. As a result, our business plan could be significantly impacted and we may incur significant liabilities under warranty claims, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on senior management, technical experts, and other highly qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers, and will need to hire and train additional personnel. Our success depends, in part, on our continuing ability to recruit, train, and develop highly qualified personnel. Experienced and highly skilled employees are in high demand and competition for these employees can be intense, particularly in our industry. Higher employee costs may also result from the high demand and competition for employees. As 22 Table of Contents with any company with limited resources, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to attract such individuals or that the presence of such individuals will necessarily translate into profitability for us. Challenges in attracting key employees and highly qualified personnel in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect our business, financial, condition or results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing services of key employees. We believe the depth and quality of the experience of our management team with the retail supply chain, distribution logistics, automation and robotics technology is key to our ability to be successful. The loss of these individuals could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If our employees seek to join a labor union, higher employee costs and increased risk of work stoppages or strikes could result. We also directly or indirectly rely on other companies with unionized workforces, including suppliers, and work stoppages or strikes at these companies could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Changes in laws and regulations related to employees, independent contractors, and temporary personnel may also lead to increased costs, reduced operational flexibility, and adversely affect our ability to staff our operations and manage workforce needs. Our System may not be successful or meet existing or future requirements in customer agreements with existing or future customers. We installed our first System in a customer distribution center in 2012 and launched our latest System in 2019. Since that time, we have continued to refine the robotics technology and capabilities of our System and anticipate continuing to upgrade our System and related software, services and products in the future. Any System, software, service or product we may launch in the future may not be well received by our customers, may not help us to generate new customers, may adversely affect the attrition rate of existing customers and may increase our customer acquisition costs and the costs to service our customers. Any revenue we may generate from these or other new Systems, software, services or products may be lower than revenue generated from our existing System, software and services and may not be sufficient for us to recoup our development or customer acquisition costs incurred, particularly if launch dates are delayed for any new System, software, services or products or we are unable to scale such System, products, software or services. In addition, any new System, software, services and products may require increased operational expenses or customer acquisition costs and present new and difficult technological and intellectual property challenges that may subject us to claims or complaints if our customers experience installation issues, service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. To the extent any new System, software, services and products are not successful, it could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. We rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. Any disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We buy equipment, components and services, including electronic components and commodities, from third parties. These materials are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers around the world. We must effectively manage our supply chain to ensure timely, reliable and sufficient supply, on reasonably favorable terms, of the materials used in our manufacturing processes. Our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: a worker strike, which could impact the unloading, loading and movement of cargo at ports used by our carriers, which could lead to delays in shipments and arrival schedules; poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our System; cost increases due to inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, taxes, tariffs or commodity market volatility or other factors that affect our suppliers; embargoes, sanctions and other trade restrictions that may affect our ability to purchase from various suppliers; intellectual property challenges to ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; and shortages and untimely availability of components, commodities or other materials, including semiconductors and integrated circuits, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies, construction schedules and ability to make timely delivery of our Systems and services. Any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. 23 Table of Contents If there are disruptions in our supply chain, the materials we rely on in our business may not be timely available, at reasonable rates, or at all. These disruptions could cause a delay in our manufacturing and construction of our System and thus a delay in our implementation schedules for our customers. We also maintain several single-source supplier relationships because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. Unavailability of, or delivery delays for, single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. While substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying alternative suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of sales. Certain of our supply agreements allow the supplier to terminate the agreement upon notice for any reason or no reason. This termination right could disrupt our operations, negatively impact our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a number of suppliers for raw materials and components for our System and have entered into supply agreements with such suppliers. A number of these supply agreements provide the supplier with a termination right for any reason or no reason. If one of our suppliers terminates their relationship with us, or experiences a supply chain disruption, we could experience delays in our ability to deliver our System to our customers. In addition, while most raw materials and components for our System are available from multiple suppliers, certain of those items are only available from limited sources. Should any of these suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, or impose terms unacceptable to us, such as increased pricing terms, we could be required to spend a significant amount of time and expense to develop alternate sources of supply, and we may not be successful in doing so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. As a result, the loss of a supplier could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets in which we participate are competitive. Many companies, including large retail and e-commerce companies, companies that offer point solutions or other comprehensive or specific supply chain functionalities and other companies that focus on automated technologies, may target the markets in which we do business. Additionally, our customers and potential customers may develop in-house solutions that compete with our System. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We provide a System that offers a comprehensive supply chain automation solution. Accordingly, we compete with a number of companies that offer solutions to the retail distribution market, including companies that offer (i) point solutions such as Grey Orange, Locus Robotics, Vecna, OPEX, Fetch and Berkshire Grey; (ii) comprehensive solutions, which are comprised of a disparate set of point solutions such as Witron, Knapp AG, Honeywell, Dematic, Vanderlande, SSI Schaefer and Swisslog; and (iii) solutions that focus exclusively on e-commerce, such as Exotec, Ocado and AutoStore. Although we believe that our System is significantly differentiated from these offerings, the markets in which we participate may become more competitive in the future. Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: our Systems price, functionality, performance, ease of use, ease of installation, reliability, availability and cost effectiveness relative to that of our competitors products; our success in utilizing new and proprietary technologies (including software) to offer solutions and features previously not available in the marketplace; our success in identifying new markets, applications and technologies and evolving our System to address these markets; our ability to attract and retain customers; our name recognition and reputation; and our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our IP. Our customers may also internally develop their own automated solutions for their warehouses. Our market may need further education on the value of automated solutions and our System and on how to integrate them into current operations. A lack of understanding as to how our automated solution operates may cause potential customers to prefer more traditional technologies, limited point solutions or internally developed automated processes or to be cautious about investing in our 24 Table of Contents System. If we are unable to educate potential customers and change the markets readiness to accept our technology, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. If we are unable to develop new solutions, adapt to technological change, sell our software, services and System into new markets or further penetrate our existing markets, our revenue may not grow as expected. Our ability to increase sales will depend, in large part, on our ability to enhance and improve our System, software and services timely introduce new robotic technology and automation solutions, sell into new markets and further penetrate our existing markets. As a result, we must continually invest resources in product development and successfully incorporate and develop new technology. Developing upgrades and new supply chain automation solutions are costly and impose burdens on our internal teams, including management, compliance, and product development. The success of any enhancement or new System, software, services and products depends on several factors, including timely completion, competitive pricing, introduction and market acceptance of such System, software, services and products and our ability to develop and maintain relationships with customers and vendors. Any new System, software, service and product we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner. Any new markets into which we attempt to sell our System and services may not be receptive. Our ability to further penetrate our existing markets depends on the pricing, quality, availability and reliability of our System, software and services and our ability to design them to meet customer demand and price. Similarly, if any of our competitors implement new technologies before we are able to implement ours, those competitors may be able to provide more effective products, possibly at lower prices. If we are unable to provide a System that customers want at a competitive price, then our customers may become dissatisfied and use competitors services. Any delay or failure in the introduction of new or enhanced solutions could harm our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could make it difficult to execute our business strategy and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced rapid growth, and we are attempting to continue to grow our business substantially. To this end, we have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in our business, including investments in our infrastructure, technology, marketing and sales efforts. We are expanding our facilities and growing our headcount. If we do not generate the level of revenue required to support our investment, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to effectively manage our anticipated growth and expansion will also require us to enhance our operational, financial and management controls and infrastructure, human resources policies and reporting systems. These enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures, additional headcount, other capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our growth and expansion. There are no guarantees we will be able to do so in an efficient or timely manner, or at all. Our System, software and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and result in harm to our reputation. Our System constitutes complex software and hardware that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. Our sophisticated solution may have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of our hardware or software products. Defects may also exist in components and products that we source from third parties or the System may not be implemented or used correctly or as intended. Any such defects or incorrect implementation or use could make our System, software and services unsafe, create a risk of property damage and personal injury, and subject us to the hazards and uncertainties of product liability claims and related litigation. In addition, from time to time, we may experience outages, service slowdowns or errors that affect our System and software. As a result, our System may not perform as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in our System, software and services. Failure to do so could result in widespread technical and performance issues in our System and services and could lead to claims against us. We maintain general liability insurance; however, claims related to design and manufacturing defects may subject us to judgments or settlements that result in damages materially in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. In addition, we 25 Table of Contents may be exposed to recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory, property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses such as litigation costs and regulatory fines. If we cannot successfully defend any large claim, maintain our general liability insurance on acceptable terms or maintain adequate coverage against potential claims, our financial results could be adversely impacted. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing business needs, requirements or preferences, our System may become less competitive. Our future business and financial success will depend on our ability to continue to anticipate the needs of our current and potential customers and to enhance and improve our System, software and services, introduce new robotic technology and automation solutions in a timely manner, sell into new markets and further penetrate our existing markets. To be successful, we must be able to quickly adapt to changes in technology, industry standards and business needs of our customers by continually enhancing our technology, services and solutions. Developing new software, services and products and upgrades to our existing System, software and services as well as integrating and coordinating our current System, software and services imposes burdens on our internal teams, including management, compliance, and product development. These processes are costly, and our efforts to develop, integrate and enhance our System, software and services may not be successful. Our success also depends on our continued improvements to provide products and services that are attractive to our customers. As a result, we must continually invest resources in product development and successfully incorporate and develop new technology. If we are unable to do so or otherwise provide supply chain automation solutions that customers want, then our customers may become dissatisfied and use competitors services. If we are unable to continue offering innovative software, services and products, we may be unable to attract additional customers or retain our existing customers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inflation, tariffs, customs duties and other increases in manufacturing and operating costs could adversely affect our cash flow as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in prices for commodities, parts, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight and labor, which may be driven by inflation, prevailing price levels, exchange rates, changes in trade agreements and trade protection measures including tariffs and other economic factors. In the past, our operating costs have been impacted by price inflation and these costs may continue to be so impacted. The U.S. has enacted various trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods we import from other countries, which has also contributed to higher costs for some commodities and raw materials. Additional tariffs imposed by the U.S., or further retaliatory trade measures taken by other countries, could increase the cost of our System that we may not be able to offset. Actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial performance is subject to risks of foreign exchange fluctuation, which could result in foreign exchange losses. We may be exposed to fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against certain other currencies, including the Mexican Peso, because we publish our financial statements in U.S. dollars, while some of our assets, liabilities, revenues and costs are or will be denominated in other currencies. Exchange rates for currencies of the countries in which we operate may fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar, and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our earnings or assets when translating foreign currency into U.S. dollars. We do not hedge our exchange rate so any changes in exchange rates will directly affect our earnings. Our customer agreements allocate certain liabilities to us. The occurrence of such liability could disrupt our business or result in liability. Our customer contracts, including those with our largest customers, allocate liability between our customers and us. We have agreed to indemnify customers for infringement or misappropriation of third-party IP; damage, destruction, injury or property damage; and actions by our employees. The potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, although our customer contracts typically contain limitations on our liability with respect to certain indemnification claims. 26 Table of Contents Costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with indemnification claims could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital, and this capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, when needed. Research and development and improvement of our facilities is capital-intensive and may require capital investment to fund. On February 26, 2024, we completed a sale in an underwritten offering of 10,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock. Our net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and our offering expenses, were approximately $197 million. However, there can be no assurance that we will have access to further capital if we need on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need them, our financial condition, business, prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may raise funds through the issuance of debt securities or through loan arrangements, the terms of which could require significant interest payments, contain covenants that restrict our business or other unfavorable terms. We may also raise funds through the sale of additional equity securities, which could dilute our stockholders. We may experience risks associated with future mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets or other strategic transactions or joint ventures. We may pursue mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets or other strategic transactions that we believe will enable us to strengthen or broaden our business. We established the GreenBox joint venture in July 2023 and acquired substantially all of the assets of Veo Robotics in July 2024. However, we may be unable to identify suitable companies, businesses or assets, reach agreement on potential strategic transactions on acceptable terms and manage the impacts of such transactions on our business. Moreover, mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions involve various risks including, but not limited to: integrating or disposing of a business; introducing new or improved supply chain automation solutions; unanticipated changes in customer, supplier and other third-party relationships, diversion of managements attention from day-to-day operations, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements, substantial transaction costs, and potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition. Future mergers or acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent a transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on credit availability. For all these reasons, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets or other strategic transactions could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. We may also choose to divest certain businesses or product lines that no longer fit with our strategic objectives. If we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty obtaining terms acceptable to us in a timely manner, or at all. Additionally, the terms of such potential transactions may expose us to ongoing obligations and liabilities. If demand for our System does not grow as we expect, or if market adoption of A.I.-enabled robotics and supply chain automation solutions does not continue to develop, or develops slower than we expect, our future revenue may stagnate or decline and our business may be adversely affected. The supply chain automation industry is rapidly growing and developing. We may not be able to develop effective strategies to raise awareness among potential customers of the benefits of A.I. enabled robotics and automation and our System may not address the specific needs or provide the level of functionality required by potential customers to encourage the continuation of the shift towards supply chain automation. If supply chain automation technology does not continue to gain broader market acceptance as an alternative to conventional manual operations, or if the marketplace adopts supply chain automation technologies that differ from ours, we may not be able to increase or sustain the level of sales of our solution, retain existing customers or attract new customers, and our operating results would be adversely affected as a result. 27 Table of Contents Laws and regulations governing robotics and supply chain automation industries are still developing and may restrict our business or increase the costs of our System, making our System less competitive or adversely affecting our revenue growth. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the robotics and supply chain automation industries in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or in some circumstances, of those jurisdictions in which we offer our System. Our System utilizes emerging tools and technologies, such as artificial intelligence, which may also become subject to regulation under new laws or new applications of existing laws. These laws and regulations are developing and vary from one jurisdiction to another and future legislative and regulatory action, court decisions or other governmental action, which may be affected by, among other things, political pressures, attitudes and climates, as well as personal biases, may have a material and adverse impact on our operations and financial results. Our warehousing facilities are subject to various compliance requirements, including those of OSHA and other workplace safety agencies, and compliance costs could increase as we scale our System. Our warehousing facilities are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including those of OSHA, a regulatory agency of the United States Department of Labor. In particular, our facilities are subject to oversight and regulation under local ordinances, building, zoning and fire codes, environmental protection regulation, and other rules and regulations. Although we believe that obtaining and renewing any certificates or licenses required for the operation of our business in compliance with such laws and regulations will be routine, we cannot assure you that we will obtain or renew them in a timely manner. Our failure to hold a given license or certificate, whether by expiration, nonrenewal, modification or termination, may impair our ability to perform our obligations under our customer contracts. Such licenses or certificates may require us to operate in ways that incur substantial compliance costs, particularly as we seek to scale our System. Supply chain interruptions may increase our costs or reduce our revenue. We depend on good vendor relationships and the effectiveness of our supply chain management to ensure reliable and sufficient supply, on reasonably favorable terms, of materials used in our manufacturing processes. The materials we purchase and use in the ordinary course of business are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers around the world, including Germany, Italy, Sweden, Mexico, the United States and China. Disruptions in the supply chain may result from public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or from weather-related events, natural disasters, trade restrictions, tariffs, border controls, acts of war, terrorist attacks, third-party strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns, shipping capacity constraints, supply or shipping interruptions or other factors beyond our control. In the event of disruptions in our existing supply chain, the labor and materials we rely on in the ordinary course of our business may not be available at reasonable rates or at all. Further, we may not be able to recover such additional costs under our agreements with our customers. Our supply chain also depends on third-party warehouses and logistics providers. Any disruption in the supply, storage or delivery of materials could disrupt our operations, which may cause harm to our reputation and results of operations. We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting and our management has identified material weaknesses. If our remediation of the material weaknesses is not effective, or we identify additional material weaknesses or other adverse findings in the future, our ability to report our financial condition or results of operations accurately or timely or prevent fraud may be adversely affected, which may result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies, and ultimately have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure