Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations References to the Company, SVF Investment Corp. 3, SVF Investment Corp., our, us or we refer to SVF Investment Corp. 3. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on December 11, 2020. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. Our sponsor is SVF Sponsor III (DE) LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Sponsor). The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on March 8, 2021. On March 11, 2021, we consummated its Initial Public Offering of 32,000,000 Class A ordinary shares (the Public Shares), including the 4,000,000 Public Shares as a result of the underwriters full exercise of their over-allotment option, at an offering price of $10.00 per Public Share, generating gross proceeds of $320.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $18.1 million, of which approximately $11.2 million was for deferred underwriting commissions. On April 22, 2021, the underwriters made a payment to us in an amount of $640,000 to reimburse certain of our expenses in connection with this offering. 17 Table of Contents Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 1,040,000 Class A ordinary shares (the Private Placement Shares), at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Share to the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $10.4 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, management agreed that an amount equal to at least $10.00 per Public Share sold in the Initial Public Offering, including the proceeds of the Private Placement Shares, will be held in a trust account (Trust Account) with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee and invested in United States government securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, having a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of its Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Shares, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. Our initial Business Combination must be with one or more operating businesses or assets with a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the net assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the deferred underwriting commissions and taxes payable on the interest earned on the Trust Account) at the time we sign a definitive agreement in connection with the initial Business Combination. However, we will only complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 11, 2023 (the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay its income taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of the then-outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and the board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Liquidity and Going Concern As of March 31, 2022, we had approximately $3.3 million in its operating bank account and working capital deficit of approximately $4.7 million. Prior to the completion of our Initial Public Offering, our liquidity needs were satisfied through the payment by our Sponsor of $25,000 for certain offering costs on our behalf in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares, and borrowings under our promissory note with our Sponsor of $300,000 as well as additional advances of approximately $114,000. We fully repaid the Note balance and the advance from the Sponsor as of March 15, 2021. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, our liquidity needs were satisfied with a portion of the proceeds of $10.4 million from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor may, but is not obligated to, provide us Working Capital Loans. On August 10, 2021 our Sponsor agreed to loan us $2.0 million as the Working Capital Loan. On November 9, 2021 our Sponsor and us agreed to amend this loan to increase the commitment by $1.0 million. As of March 31, 2022 there was $3.0 million drawn on the Working Capital Loan. As of December 31, 2021 there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loans. 18 Table of Contents In connection with managements assessment of going concern considerations management has determined that the mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution if the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination with 24 months from closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 11, 2023, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for a period of time which is considered to be one year from the issuance of these financial statements. The condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustment that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception up to March 31, 2022 was for our formation and preparation for our IPO, and subsequent to the IPO, identifying a target company for a business combination. We will not generate any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial business combination, at the earliest. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we had net loss of approximately $2.3 million, which consisted of approximately $2.3 million in general and administrative expenses, including $30,000 of general and administrative expenses to related party, partly offset by approximately $27,000 in income from investments held in the Trust Account. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $524,000, which consisted of approximately $508,000 in general and administrative expenses, including $17,000 of general and administrative expenses to related party, partly offset by approximately $1,000 in income from investments held in the Trust Account. Contractual Obligations Administrative Service Agreement Commencing on the date that the Companys securities were first listed on the NASDAQ through the earlier of consummation of the initial Business Combination and the liquidation, we agreed to pay our Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, secretarial and administrative services provided to us by an affiliate of our Sponsor. We incurred $30,000 and $10,000 in such fees included as general and administrative expenses to related party on the accompanying condensed statements of operations for three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of March 31, 2022 $130,000 is due to the Sponsor and is included in due to related party on the accompanying condensed balance sheets. As December 31, 2021 $100,000 was due to the Sponsor and was included in the due to related party on the accompanying condensed balance sheets. In addition, our Sponsor, officers and directors, or their respective affiliates will be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable Business Combinations. Our audit committee will review on a quarterly basis all payments that were made by us to our Sponsor, executive officers or directors, or their affiliates. Any such payments prior to an initial Business Combination will be made using funds held outside the Trust Account. In addition to the administrative services agreement fee of $130,000 and $100,000 (as noted above) approximately $867,000, and $459,000 is due to the Sponsors affiliates for reimbursements of expenses and is included in due to related party on the accompanying condensed balance sheets as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Registration and Shareholder Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Shares, and any shares that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the Founder Shares) were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement signed upon the effective date of the Initial Public Offering. The holders of these securities were entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company registers such securities. In addition, the holders had certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial Business Combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We have granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the prospectus to purchase up to 4,000,000 additional shares at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. 19 Table of Contents The underwriters fully exercised the over-allotment option on March 11, 2021. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per unit, or $6.4 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, $0.35 per unit, or approximately $11.2 million in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. On April 22, 2021, the underwriters made a payment to us in an amount of $640,000 to reimburse certain of the expenses in connection with our Initial Public Offering. Forward Purchase Agreement The Company entered into a forward purchase agreement (a Forward Purchase Agreement) with SVF II SPAC Investment 3 (DE) LLC (the Forward Purchase Investor), which provides for the purchase of $150 million forward purchase shares (the Forward Purchase Shares), for $10.00 per share, in a private placement to close substantially concurrently with the closing of the initial Business Combination. The Forward Purchase Agreement also provides that the Forward Purchase Investor may elect to purchase up to an additional $50 million of Forward Purchase Shares, for a purchase price of $10.00 per share. Any elections to purchase up to 5,000,000 additional Forward Purchase Shares will take place in one or more private placements in such amounts and at such time as the Forward Purchase Investor determine, but no later than simultaneously with the closing of the initial Business Combination. The Company and the Forward Purchase Investor may determine, by mutual agreement, to increase the number of additional Forward Purchase Shares at any time prior to the initial Business Combination. The obligations under the Forward Purchase Agreement do not depend on whether any Class A ordinary shares are redeemed by the Public Shareholders. The forward purchase securities will be issued only in connection with the closing of the initial Business Combination. The proceeds from the sale of forward purchase securities may be used as part of the consideration to the sellers in the initial Business Combination, expenses in connection with the initial Business Combination or for working capital in the post-transaction company. On March 23, 2022, the Forward Purchase Investor elected to purchase an additional $50 million of Forward Purchase Shares, for a purchase price of $10.00 per share, subject to and on the terms set out in such election and the Forward Purchase Agreement. Critical Accounting Policies Investment held in Trust Account Our portfolio of investments is comprised solely of U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less, or investments in money market funds that invest in U.S. government securities and generally have a readily determinable fair value, or a combination thereof. Our investments held in the Trust Account are classified as trading securities. When our investments held in the Trust Account are comprised of money market funds, the investments are recognized at fair value. Trading securities and investments in money market funds are presented on the condensed balance sheets at fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the change in fair value of these securities is included in income from investments held in Trust Account in the accompanying unaudited condensed statements of operations. The estimated fair values of investments held in the Trust Account are determined using available market information. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders deficit. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at the Initial Public Offering, 32,000,000 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders deficit section of our accompanying balance sheets. 20 Table of Contents The Company recognizes changes in redemption value immediately as they occur and adjusts the carrying value of the Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption to equal the redemption value at the end of each reporting period. Effective with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we recognized the accretion from initial book value to redemption amount value. The change in the carrying value of redeemable shares of Class A ordinary shares resulted in charges against additional paid-in capital and accumulated deficit. Net Loss Per Ordinary Share We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. Income and losses are shared pro rata between Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption and non-redeemable ordinary shares. Net loss per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the respective period. Non-redeemable ordinary shares include Founder Shares and Private Placement Shares as these shares do not have any redemption features. Diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Accretion associated with the redeemable Class A ordinary shares is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2022 we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any commitments or contractual obligations. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.