Item2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report (including, but not limited to, factors discussed below, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others general economic and market conditions, decreased consumer demand for the Companys products, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, possible work stoppages or increases in labor costs, effects of competition, possible disruptions or delays in the opening of new stores or inability to obtain suitable sites for new stores, higher than anticipated store closings or relocation costs, higher interest rates, unanticipated increases in merchandise or occupancy costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with the integration of Filenes Basement and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are constantly reevaluated, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. 11 SYMS CORP The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, located in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010. The Company has identified certain critical accounting policies that are described below. Merchandise Invento r y Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis, as determined by the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio between the costs of goods available for sale and the retail value of inventories. For a brief period, from October 4, 2009 through October 2, 2010, the Syms stores utilized a different method, the moving weighted average cost method. Under the moving weighted average cost method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying an average cost based on the cost of goods available for sale divided by the number of units available for sale. After we completed the acquisition of Filenes, the Company found itself in the position that a portion of its business was utilizing the moving average cost method and a portion of its business was utilizing the retail inventory method. The Company thus was faced with the choice of either converting Filenes to the moving average cost method or transitioning the Syms stores back to the system that they had previously utilized. The Company determined that it would be more effective to revert back to the retail inventory method. The change in the method of recording Syms inventory in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and the third quarter of fiscal 2010 did not have a material impact on reported results of operations. The significant estimates used are for markdowns and shrinkage. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise, fashion trends and weather conditions. In addition, inventory is also evaluated against corporate pre-determined historical markdown trends. When a decision is made to permanently markdown merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The timing of the decision, particularly surrounding the balance sheet date, can have a significant effect on the results of operations. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the date of the last physical inventory to the end of the fiscal year. Physical inventories are taken at least annually for all stores and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in combination with historical experience, is used as the standard for the shrinkage accrual following the physical inventory. The Company has found the use of these estimates to be appropriate and actual results have not differed materially. However, the Company is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause its future estimates to differ materially from past experience. Long-Lived Assets In evaluating and measuring an impairment loss, we consider individual retail locations to be the appropriate asset group, since the store level is the lowest level at which identifiable cash flows are independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We evaluate long lived assets for impairment at all of our retail locations on at least an annual basis at the end of each fiscal year, after the holiday selling season, when we have the most visibility into the operations of the individual store. We will also test an asset group for impairment during the year if any impairment indicators are identified that could result in a potential impairment. If it is determined that such indicators are present and the review discloses that the assets will not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining useful lives, their carrying values are reduced to estimated fair value. Various factors, including future sales growth and profit margins, are included in this analysis. To the extent these future projections or the Companys strategies change, the conclusion regarding impairment may differ from the Companys current estimates. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance - The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that could produce additional future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Should the Company determine that it will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will be charged to income in the period such determination is made. 12 SYMS CORP Results of Operations Thirteen weeks Ended May 28, 2011 Compared to Thirteen weeks Ended May 29, 2010 Net sales decreased by $16.0 million or 13% to $105.4 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 from $121.4 million in the prior year period. This decrease was primarily the result of comparable store sales decreasing 12% and contributed $13.8 million of the sales decrease in the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. Comparable store sales in the comparable prior year period, which were only for Syms stores, increased 11%. The Companys comparable store sales computation only includes stores that have been owned and operated by the Company for a period of at least twelve months. Comparable store sales for the stores in the New England region were in the negative high teens; partially offsetting the low comparable store sales in the New England Region were comparable store sales in the South, which had negative mid-single digit comparable store sales. Other areas of the country had comparable store sales generally in line with the Companys comparable store sales. In addition, the Company lost $2.1 million of sales resulting from the closing of 4 stores during the past year. Gross profit decreased by $9.1 million to $44.6 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 from $53.7 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 190 basis points to 42.4% during the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 from 44.3% during the comparable prior year period. This decrease was primarily due to the Company taking more markdowns this year as a result of lower sales than planned. Partially offsetting the higher markdowns, the Company decreased its reserve for inventory obsolescence by $4.1 million, as a result of previously reserved inventory being sold. The Companys gross profit excludes the cost of its distribution network. For the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 and May 29, 2010, the amounts incurred for our distribution network that were classified in selling, general and administrative expenses and occupancy costs were $3.9 million and $5.3 million, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) decreased $5.6 million to $27.1 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 as compared to $32.7 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. The decrease was primarily a result of lower payroll, supplies, repairs and travel expenses resulting from store closures and other cost containment measures implemented in fiscal 2010. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased approximately 120 basis points to 25.7% of net sales during the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 from 26.9% of net sales in the comparable prior year period. Advertising expense for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 was $1.3 million or 1.2% of net sales as compared to $2.5 million or 2.1% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Advertising expense for the thirteen week period ended May 28, 2011 decreased primarily due to the Company doing less promotion this year and to a re-allocation of advertising efforts to less expensive social media from more traditional media. Occupancy costs (net) were $16.2 million or 15.4% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 as compared to $15.6 million or 12.9% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 with the increase being primarily the result of deferred rent expense for a new store planned to open later this year. Included as an offset to net occupancy cost is rental income from third parties on real estate holdings incidental to the Companys retail operations. For the thirteen week period ended May 28, 2011 and May 29, 2010, rental income was $586,000 and $563,000, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense was $3.5 million or 3.4% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 as compared to $3.4 million or 2.8% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $0.1 million due primarily to capital expenditure additions over the past twelve months. Gain on disposition of assets for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 was $6.4 million or 6.1% of net sales as compared to $0.1 million or 0.1% of net sales for the comparable prior year period. The gain this year was primarily from the sale of the Syms store located in Rockville, MD and to a lesser degree from the proceeds of a partial condemnation of property adjacent to our Marietta, GA store. Last years first quarter gain was the net result of selling two stores, downsizing one store and closing one store. 13 SYMS CORP Interest expense was $0.5 million or 0.4% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 as compared to $0.2 million or 0.2% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Interest expense was a result of borrowings on the Companys revolving credit facility. As a result of the above-noted items, income before income taxes for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 was $2.6 million as compared to a loss of $1.4 million for the same period last year. For the thirteen week period ended May 28, 2011 the effective income tax rate was 42.3% as compared to 44.1% for the comparable period last year. The difference between the effective income tax rate and the federal statutory rate and the reason for the decrease in the effective income tax rate is largely attributable to non-deductibility of certain operating expenses. State taxes also increase the effective income tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital as of May 28, 2011 was $33.5 million, a decrease of $20.3 million as compared to $53.8 million as of May 29, 2010. This decrease in working capital is primarily due to an increase in accrued expenses, partially as a result of the restructuring charges related to lease payments for two stores closed during fiscal 2010. In addition, assets held for sale decreased as one of two properties was sold and the other property had an asset impairment charge in the prior year. . Net cash used in operating activities totaled $2.4 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $2.0 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Net cash provided by investing activities was $15.9 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011, as compared to $2.6 million provided by investing activities for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. The $14.3 million in proceeds from the sale of land, building and other assets of the Syms store located in Rockville, MD largely accounts for this increase. Capital expenditures for property and equipment decreased from $3.8 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 to $0.8 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. The decrease is largely attributed to the Company remodeling fewer stores this year than the prior year. . Net cash used in financing activities was $13.2 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $0.2 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Part of the proceeds from the sale of the Rockville, MD property was used to pay down debt during the quarter. On August 27, 2009, the Company entered into a secured $75 million revolving Credit Agreement which expires on August 27, 2012. That Credit Agreement, which has been amended as of January 7, 2011, March 8, 2011 and June 16, 2011, is among Syms Corp, as Lead Borrower, Filenes Basement, LLC (together with the Lead Borrower, collectively the Borrowers), the guarantors named therein, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent. Availability thereunder is based on a borrowing base consisting generally of certain inventory, credit card receivables, mortgaged real estate and cash collateral (the Borrowing Base). In connection with the Bank of America facility, the Company recognized approximately $1.1 million of deferred financing costs, which are being amortized over the term of the agreement. This facility bears interest at various rates depending on availability under a formula set forth in the Credit Agreement. As of May 28, 2011, the interest rate on the facility was Prime +2.50% or LIBOR +3.50%, which equates to 5.75% and 3.70%, respectively. In addition, the Borrowers are subject to certain negative covenants customary for credit facilities of this size, type and purpose. These covenants restrict or limit, among other things, their ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on their assets, dispose of assets, make acquisitions and investments, merge, dissolve or consolidate and pay dividends, redeem equity and make other restricted payments. 14 SYMS CORP The Credit Agreement sets forth financial conditions which must be fulfilled in order for a Borrower (i) to (a) acquire a controlling interest in another entity, all or substantially all of the assets of another entity or a business unit of another entity; (b) enter into a merger or consolidation having the same effect; or (c) acquire additional store locations from another entity; (ii) to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire equity interests issued by it or (iii) to make a voluntary prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance of indebtedness permitted by the Credit Agreement (other than indebtedness subordinated to the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement). These conditions require that: (i) No default exists under the Credit Agreement; (ii) After giving effect to the contemplated transaction, Average Daily Availability for each month during the 12 months following such transaction be at least equal to 30% of the Loan Cap; and (iii) The consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, after giving pro forma effect to such transaction for the 12 months prior to such transaction be at least 1.2:1.0. Average Daily Availability is computed for each month as follows: (a) for each day during such month the excess of the Loan Cap at the close of business over the outstanding principal amount of the loans and letter of credit obligations at the close of business is determined, (b) the sum of the figures resulting from the computations in clause (a) is determined and (c) such sum is divided by the number of days in such month. The Loan Cap for each day is an amount equal to the lesser of $75 million and the Borrowing Base (as described above) for such day, plus, in each case, the outstanding principal amount of the term loan for such day. Determination of whether the second or third condition described above is satisfied requires the Company to give effect to the contemplated transaction. Thus, unless and until a specific transaction is proposed, no calculation is required or can be made with respect to these conditions. No transactions giving rise to this calculation occurred during the fiscal quarter ended May 28, 2011. In addition, the restriction on indebtedness provides for an availability of up to $5 million at any time outstanding for indebtedness incurred to acquire fixed or capital assets, as well as customary carve-outs for existing debt, intercompany debt, guaranties in favor of suppliers and the like. As of May 28, 2011, the Borrowers have no such indebtedness outstanding. The Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant which requires that the Borrowers maintain at all times unutilized borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement in an amount of not less than 12.5% of the Borrowing Base described above (or $9.375 million, whichever is less) (See Note 14 to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements Subsequent Event for changes to this financial covenant.). As of May 28, 2011, the Borrowing Base was $54.5 million, which means that the Company was required to maintain unutilized borrowing capacity of not less than $6.8 million. As of May 28, 2011, $17.0 million is outstanding under this facility. The Credit Agreement has sub-limits for letters of credit which when utilized, reduce availability under the facility. At May 28, 2011, February 26, 2011 and May 29, 2010, the Company had outstanding letters of credit of $10.9 million, $10.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively. Total interest charges incurred for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 and May 29, 2010 were $0.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively. There was no capitalized interest for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 and May 29, 2010. The U.S. economy is continuing to experience weakness. Such continued weakness could negatively affect the Companys cash, sales and/or operating performance and, further, could limit additional capital if needed and increase operating and finance costs. The Company has reduced or eliminated selected expenses and greatly reduced its fiscal 2011 capital expenditure budget. In addition, the Company sold a property in Rockville, MD (as reported in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2010), yielding $14.3 million in net cash proceeds, and received a condemnation award from the Georgia Department of Transportation in the amount of $2.4 million, totaling an incremental cash infusion of $16.7 million. The Companys credit facility had borrowing availability of $19.8 million as of May 28, 2011. Further, the Company has continued to negotiate amendments to its credit facility and has recently negotiated a reduction in its Borrowing Base Availability Block from 12.5% to 10% as of June 16, 2011 which will contribute approximately an additional $1.2 million to $1.5 million in incremental liquidity. Lastly, should it be necessary and deemed beneficial to the Company and its shareholders, the Company could enter into a sale-leaseback arrangement with certain of its owned properties, sell an owned property, or mortgage an owned property. During fiscal 2011, the Company will also be undergoing a process to explore and evaluate various potential strategic alternatives and has retained Rothchild Inc. as its exclusive financial advisor in connection with the strategic review. The Company has also engaged Alvarez & Marsal to provide management and business advisory services during fiscal 2011. Management believes that existing cash, internally generated funds, trade credit, funds available from the revolving credit facility and other financing, if needed, will be sufficient for working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the fiscal year ending February 25, 2012. 15 SYMS CORP Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices Although the Company cannot accurately determine the precise effect of inflation on its operations, it does not believe inflation has had a material effect on sales or results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for a description of the Recent Accounting Pronouncements including the respective dates of adoption and the effects on Results of Operations and Financial Condition.