Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Alan Cohen, the Company director appointed by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock, has informed the Company of his belief that under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation and the Plan, his approval is required in order for the Company to enter into and/or perform its obligations under the CEO engagement agreement between the Company and Mr. Ettenger. Mr. Cohen has not approved the engagement agreement and has indicated that he does not intend to approve it in its current form. The Company, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Ettenger are engaged in discussions attempting to resolve the issue, but there can be no assurance as to the outcome of those discussions. If the matter is not resolved, it could result in the Company not having a principal executive officer and/or in the need for legal proceedings, which could cause further distraction and negatively affect the Companys business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES As of May 24, 2013, the Companys remaining near term properties as defined under the Plan are as follows. Each property is owned in fee, except as noted. Total Square Property Location Feet Addison, IL 68,000 Berwyn, PA 69,000 Cherry Hill, NJ 150,000 Ft. Lauderdale, FL 55,000 Marietta, GA 77,000 Norcross, GA 69,000 Secaucus, NJ (1) 340,000 West Palm Beach, FL 112,000 Williamsville, NY 102,000 Total 1,042,000 (1) Ground lease dated June 1, 1977, expiring May 31, 2276. Under the terms of the ground lease, the Company is obligated to pay additional rents equal to 15% of any annual net cash flow plus 15% of any net proceeds from a refinancing of this property. As of May 24, 2013, the Companys medium term properties as defined under the Plan are as follows. Each property is owned in fee, except as noted. Total Square Property Location Feet Elmsford, NY (1) 59,000 Westbury, NY 92,000 Paramus, NJ 77,000 Total 228,000 (1) Ground leases related to the parking lot dated January 1, 1969 and January 1, 1970, expiring May 31, 2068 and December 31, 2068, respectively. Below is certain information about the Companys property generally referred to as the Trinity Place Property, which is owned in fee. The Trinity Place Property also has associated air rights. Total Square Property Location Feet New York, NY 57,000 7 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is a party to routine legal proceedings, which are primarily incidental to its former business. Some of the actions to which the Company is a party are covered by insurance and are being defended or reimbursed by the Companys insurance carriers. Additionally, as discussed in Item 1, the Company operates under the Plan that was approved in connection with the resolution of the Chapter 11 cases involving Syms and its subsidiaries. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Common Stock of Syms was delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (the NASDAQ) on November 15, 2011. Since that time, the Companys Common Stock has been quoted in the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. Initially, the stocks OTCQB trading symbol was SYMSQ, but it was changed to TPHS in connection with the conclusion of the Chapter 11 cases. The following table summarizes the quarterly high and low bid quotations prices per share of the Common Stock as reported in the OTCQB since November 15, 2011 and the high and low sales prices on NASDAQ prior to that date. The OTCQB quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Fiscal Year Ended March 2, 2013 Fiscal Year Ended February 25, 2012 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 11.25 $ 8.95 $ 10.20 $ 6.45 Second Quarter $ 9.10 $ 2.60 $ 12.99 $ 8.40 Third Quarter $ 4.45 $ 2.91 $ 10.45 $ 5.64 Fourth Quarter $ 5.45 $ 4.04 $ 12.80 $ 8.10 Holders As of May 24, 2013, there were approximately 373 record holders of the Companys Common Stock. Dividends No dividends were paid in fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011. The payment of any dividends on the Common Stock is strictly limited by the terms of the Plan, and the Company has no intention of and is unable to pay dividends to the holders of Common Stock until at least such time as the Companys distribution obligations under the Plan have been satisfied. 8 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report (including but not limited to factors discussed below, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Annual Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others, the restrictions contained in the Plan, general economic and market conditions, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, higher than anticipated costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control, many of which are described above in Risk Factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Annual Report and other reports filed with the SEC. Disposition of the Companys and Filenes Businesses Prior to November 2, 2011, all of the Companys and Filenes business operations consisted primarily of running retail operations. As the economy worsened, sales continued to erode and, as a result, cash flow suffered and significant operational losses continued to threaten the on-going businesses. Trade vendors tightened and/or ceased providing credit terms. As a result, the Company and Filenes projected that absent additional financing or measures to monetize certain assets, liquidity would come to an end. On November 2, 2011, Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In response to the Chapter 11 filing, the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the petition date. Net operating results from October 30, 2011 to November 1, 2011 were not material. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs through the liquidation date are provided to the extent reasonably determinable. The consolidated financial statements for the periods ended October 29, 2011 and February 26, 2011 were prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, which contemplated realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations, Shareholders Equity and Cash Flows contain all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company as of October 29, 2011 and February 26, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. The Company has identified certain critical accounting policies that applied to the Companys financial reporting until the adoption of the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. These policies are described below. 9 Merchandise Inventory Merchandise inventories were stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis, as determined by the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins were calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio between the costs of goods available for sale and the retail value of inventories. For a brief period, from October 4, 2009 through October 2, 2010, the Syms stores utilized a different method, the moving weighted average cost method. Under the moving weighted average cost method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins were calculated by applying an average cost based on the cost of goods available for sale divided by the number of units available for sale. The change in the method of recording Syms inventory in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and the third quarter of fiscal 2010 did not have a material impact on reported results of operations. The significant estimates used were for markdowns and shrinkage. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns included current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise, fashion trends and weather conditions. In addition, inventory is also evaluated against corporate pre-determined historical markdown trends. When a decision was made to permanently markdown merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction was recognized in the period the markdown was recorded. Shrinkage was estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the date of the last physical inventory to the end of the fiscal year. Physical inventories were taken at least annually for all stores and inventory records were adjusted accordingly. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in combination with historical experience, was used as the standard for the shrinkage accrual following the physical inventory. Long-Lived Assets - In evaluating and measuring an impairment loss, the Company considered individual retail locations to be the appropriate asset group, since the store level was the lowest level at which identifiable cash flows were independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The Company evaluated long-lived assets for impairment at all of its retail locations on at least an annual basis at the end of each fiscal year, after the holiday selling season, when the Company had the most visibility into the operations of the individual store. The Company also tested an asset group for impairment during the year if any impairment indicators were identified that could result in a potential impairment. If it was determined that such indicators were present and the review disclosed that the assets would not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining useful lives, their carrying values were reduced to estimated fair value. Various factors, including future sales growth and profit margins, were included in this analysis. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance The Company considered future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that could produce additional future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. A net valuation allowance of approximately $46.5 million was recorded during the thirty-five weeks period ended October 29, 2011. A further valuation allowance of approximately $38.6 million was recorded in the subsequent period from October 30, 2011 through February 25, 2012 and a reduction of approximately $1.4 million was recorded in the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013. The Company has identified certain significant accounting policies that have been applied to the Companys financial reporting after the adoption of liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. These policies are described below. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon work required for the claims settlement process, changes in market conditions and changes in the strategy surrounding the sale of properties. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. b. Pension Expense The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared annually to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plans. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plans may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at estimated net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. d. Income Taxes To the extent that income taxes, including alternate minimum income taxes, are expected to be incurred as a result of the liquidation of the Companys properties, such costs are reflected in accrued liquidation costs, as described above. As of March 2, 2013 a total of $0.9 million has been accrued. As part of the process of estimating the amount of income taxes to be incurred during the liquidation period, management has taken into consideration the extent to which net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) are expected to be available to offset the amount of income otherwise taxable on the sale of properties. This involved a process of estimating the extent to which each property had a fair value in excess of its tax basis (a built in gain) as of the date of emerging from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. At that point in time, the Company believes there was a change in control of the Company that imposed a restriction on the extent to which the Company can use prior NOLs, except to the extent of a built in gain that existed as of the date of the change in control. Results of Operations For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at estimated settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports the estimated gains and losses on liquidation. The Company began presenting its financial statements under the liquidation basis of accounting as of October 30, 2011 and discontinued its retail operations on or about December 31, 2011. Because all retail operations have ceased as of December 31, 2011 and the Company is now focused on monitizing its real estate properties, the results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013 are not comparable to the fiscal year ended February 28, 2012. During September 2012, Syms sold its Miami, FL property, the building of which is 53,000 square feet, in a Court-approved transaction. The net proceeds from the sale were approximately $4.1 million. During November 2012, the Company sold its Houston, TX property, the building of which is 42,000 square feet, on an as-is, basis. The net proceeds from the sale were approximately $3.6 million. 10 During December 2012, the Company sold its Fairfield, CT property, the building of which is 43,000 square feet, on an as-is basis. The lessor of the land exercised its option to terminate its leasehold interest with net proceeds from the sale of the property of $5.5 million paid to the Company. During December 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to lease its unoccupied space at its Elmsford, NY property. The carrying value of this property as of March 2, 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the impact of this transaction. During December 2012, the Company received a $0.9 million settlement on its Marietta, GA property. This was the result of the second and final payment regarding the partial condemnation of the property adjacent to the Marietta store in 2011. During January 2013, the Company sold its Secaucus, NJ condominium. The net proceeds from the sale were approximately $0.3 million. During April 2013, the Company sold its Southfield, MI property, the building of which is 60,000 square feet, on an as-is basis. The net proceeds from the sale were approximately $2.5 million. The value recorded in the financial statements as of March 2, 2013 is consistent with the amount realized from this subsequent transaction. In addition to these transactions, which generated aggregate net proceeds to the Company of approximately $14.4 million, the Company received an additional $2.9 million in rents and other income during the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013, $1.1 million of which was received after September 14, 2012. The Companys operating costs and expenses in the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013 were $19.9 million, with $8.1 million of that amount incurred after September 14, 2012. As noted above, overhead expenses have exceeded the original projections and are outpacing the budgeted reserves, primarily due to professional fees. As of March 2, 2013, the net assets of the Company available to Common Shareholders was $24.8 million, up from $21.2 million as of February 25, 2012, primarily due to an increase in the estimated fair value of the Companys real estate properties and a decrease in the estimated claims distributions partially offset by a reduction of $12.9 million in the amount of cash and cash equivalents, which was spent on the prosecution of the Plan and the Companys operating expenses, and the inclusion of the Companys obligation to pay $17.8 million to the former Majority Shareholder in exchange for its shares in Syms. The decrease in total assets from $178.2 million at the end of fiscal 2011 to $159.1 million at the end of fiscal 2012 was partially offset by a $22.7 million reduction in accounts payable, accrued expenses, accrued liquidation costs, and other liabilities, primarily lease settlement costs. Comparison of the Thirty-five Weeks Ended October 29, 2011 (Fiscal 2011) Compared to Twelve Months Ended February 26, 2011 (Fiscal 2010) As noted above, the Company adopted the liquidation basis of accounting effective October 30, 2011 and accordingly reported no revenue from the sale of merchandise, no cost of goods sold and no operating expenses thereafter. As a result the amounts reported for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 are not comparable. Sales for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 were $258.2 million versus $445.1 million for the twelve-month period ended February 26, 2011. Sales volume for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2012, was impacted by the fact that Syms undertook the liquidation of five stores for approximately 18 days during the period. By merchandise category, the womens business grew to 47% of total Company net sales from 46% in the prior year and the shoes business grew to 6% from 5% in the prior year. Shoes increased partially due to the introduction of DSW into seven Syms locations during the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These increases came at the expense of the mens business which decreased to 37% of total Company net sales from 38% in the prior year, and the domestics business which declined slightly to 5% from 6% in the prior year. Childrens apparel did not change, remaining at 5% of total Company net sales. Gross profit was $100.2 million, or 38.8% of net sales, for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 compared with $173.8 million, or 39.0% of sales, for the twelve months ended February 26, 2011. This decrease as a percent of net sales was due primarily to lower inventory levels, higher levels of markdowns, increased advertising and promotions to generate sales as well as the impact of the five store liquidation that started mid October 2011. The Companys gross profit excluded the cost of its distribution network. For the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 and the twelve months ended February 26, 2011, the amounts incurred for the Companys distribution network that were classified in selling, general and administrative expenses and occupancy costs were $9.5 million and $19.0 million, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) for the thirty-five week period ended October 29, 2011 were $76.1 million, or 29.5% of net sales, compared to $124.4 million, or 27.9% of net sales, for the twelve month period ended February 26, 2011. 11 Advertising expense for the thirty-five week period ended October 29, 2011 was $2.5 million as compared to $7.0 million for the twelve month period ended February 26, 2011. During the course of fiscal year 2011, the Company refocused the level and timing of its advertising expenditures and campaigns by decreasing spending on radio, print and outdoor signage. Occupancy costs (net) for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 was $43.1 million compared to $64.2 million for the twelve months ended February 26, 2011. Included as a reduction of net occupancy cost was rental income from third parties on real estate holdings incidental to the Companys retail operations. For the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 and the twelve months ended February 26, 2011, the rental income was $1.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense was $9.8 million and $14.6 million for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 and for the twelve months ended February 26, 2011, respectively. Gain on disposition of assets for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 was $7.6 million due primarily to the gain on the sale and leaseback of the Tampa, FL location, the sale of the store located in Rockville, MD and the proceeds of a partial condemnation of the property adjacent to the Marietta, GA store, offset by the loss from the sale of the North Randall, OH location. Loss on disposition of assets for fiscal 2010 was $0.5 million, which was the net result of closing four stores, selling three stores and downsizing one store. The Company recorded no asset impairment charge during the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011. Asset impairment charges for fiscal 2010 were $4.3 million or 1.0% of net sales. During fiscal 2010, the Company determined that six stores long-lived assets had been impaired. In addition, the Company shifted most of its merchandise processing from its New Jersey distribution center to its Massachusetts distribution center, in order to reduce distribution costs. This shift resulted in a partial impairment of the New Jersey facility. In conjunction with this move, an office in Massachusetts was closed giving rise to a further impairment charge. Other expenses for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 was $4.8 million, of which $1.5 million were estimated costs associated with the retro-fit of the Park Avenue, NY store, the settlement of the Fulton, NY store lease obligation of $1.1 million and the settlement of the Fifth Avenue, NY store lease obligation of $2.6 million. The Fifth Avenue, NY Store obligation of $2.6 million was subsequently reimbursed to the Company and was later adjusted as part of the liquidation leases adjustment. The Company recorded no restructuring charges during the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011. During fiscal 2010, the Company recorded $9.3 million of restructuring charges. The Company opened one store and closed four stores during fiscal 2010. The Company was required to continue to make lease payments on two of these closed stores, one through May 2012 and the other through September 2017. The Company had recorded the present value of these payments as a restructuring charge, totaling approximately $7.2 million. In addition, as part of the integration of the Syms and Filenes operations, a total of $2.1 million of information technology related professional fees, legal fees and severance costs associated with staffing level reductions, which were incurred and were recorded as restructuring charges in fiscal 2010. Interest expense for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 and the twelve months ended February 26, 2011 was $1.1 million and $1.4 million, respectively. These expenses were the result of borrowings on the Companys revolving credit facility during these periods. As a result of the above-noted items, the loss before income taxes for the thirty-five week period ended October 29, 2011 was $29.6 million compared with $51.7 million for the twelve-month period ended February 26, 2011. For the thirty-five weeks period ended October 29, 2011, the Company wrote off its short-term and long-term deferred tax assets of approximately $46.3 million as a result of management making the determination that the recovery of the assets was not likely. The effective income tax rate for the thirty-five week period ended October 29, 2011 was (156.7%). For fiscal 2010, the effective income tax rate was 36.5%. In fiscal 2010, the difference between the effective income tax rate and the federal statutory rate resulted primarily from state income taxes, adjustments related to prior year income taxes, and to a lesser extent permanent differences in the deductibility of expenses for book and tax. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 2, 2013, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $13.5 million. Prior to September 14, 2012, the Company used its cash and cash equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations. After September 14, 2012, the Company used its cash and equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees and claims related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations and to fund reserves under the Plan. The Company believes that it will be able to fund its operations through its cash flows from property sales, but as noted above, the Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from cash flows. If the Company requires additional funds beyond those reserved to pay for its operating expenses, it may seek equity or debt financing, or it may seek relief from the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock, who has the right to consent to an increase in the operating reserves. As noted above, the Company has asked the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock for an increase in its operating reserves, and the Company is awaiting a response. Pursuant to the Plan, with limited exceptions, any excess cash not applied to fund operating expenses must be distributed in accordance with the priorities established in the Plan. 12 Until October 29, 2011, the Company purchased first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 900 vendors at prices believed to be below those generally available to major department and specialty stores. The Company no longer makes merchandise purchases. Net cash used in operating activities totaled $10.0 million for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 as compared with $15.6 million for the twelve months ended February 26, 2011. The net cash used in operating activities for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 reflects the net loss and a change in working capital due to lower operating expenses partially offset by the impact of reduced inventory. Net cash provided by investing activities was $20.9 million for the thirty-five weeks ended October 29, 2011 was comprised of proceeds from the sale of land, buildings and other assets for four store locations for $22.0 million, partially offset by capital expenditures for property and equipment of $1.2 million. Net cash used of $4.8 million for the twelve months ended February 26, 2011 was comprised of capital expenditures for property and equipment for $15.5 million partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of land, building and other assets of three locations for $10.8 million. The Company entered into a secured $75 million revolving credit agreement with Bank of America as administrative agent and collateral agent in August 2009. That credit agreement was paid off and terminated on November 11, 2011. The Company is not currently a party to any credit agreement and it has no outstanding borrowings of any kind. Net Operating Losses The Company believes that the Rights Offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder resulted in the Company undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 382). Accordingly, the Companys net operating losses (NOLs) that can be used to offset future income for U.S. federal income tax purposes are limited in the manner set forth in Section 382. Generally, the NOLs that can be used each year will be limited to the product of the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate and the fair market value of the Companys stock immediately before the ownership change, with certain adjustments. Any unused portion of the annual limitation may be carried forward until expiration. The Company believes that, subject to certain requirements and limitations, its annual NOL limitation may be increased by its gain on the sale, prior to 2017, of certain properties held by the Company at the time of the ownership change (i.e., September 14, 2012), to the extent of the Companys built-in gain in such properties at such change date, and subject to an aggregate increase for all years equal to the Companys aggregate net built-in gain in its assets at such change date. The Company believes that its U.S. federal NOLs as of that date were approximately $162.8 million. However, even if all of the Companys regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of the NOLs, the Company may still be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax (which imposes a tax generally equal to the amount by which 20% of a corporations alternative minimum taxable income exceeds the corporations regular tax liability, and is calculated in a manner that may reduce the benefit of NOLs) or to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. CEO Engagement Agreement As disclosed in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 26, 2013, subsequent to the approval and execution of the engagement agreement for CEO services between Mark D. Ettenger and the Company, Alan Cohen, the Company director appointed by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock, informed the Board of Directors that he is of the belief that, under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation and the Plan, his approval is required in order for the Company to enter into and/or perform its obligations under the engagement agreement. Mr. Cohen has not approved the engagement agreement and has indicated that he does not intend to approve it in its current form (which is attached to this Annual Report as Exhibit 10.2). The Company, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Ettenger are engaged in discussions attempting to resolve the issue.