Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Business We have not generated a profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long term viability cannot be assured. Our prospects for financial success are difficult to assess because we have a limited operating history since we began reporting as a going concern. Our predecessor filed for Chapter 11 relief on November 2, 2011, we were formed, and emerged from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. We resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015. Since our formation, we have generated limited revenues and had negative cash flow from operations. The development of our business plan will require substantial capital expenditures. Our business could be subject to any or all of the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including, but not limited to capital resources. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities. 5 We have generated minimal revenues from operations and have limited cash resources, and will be reliant on external sources of capital to fund ongoing operations. Our revenue generating activities have not yet produced sufficient funds for profitable operations. In addition, we are required to set aside specified minimum levels of liquidity in connection with the development and financing of 77 Greenwich, and we anticipate that we may be required to do so in connection with the development and financing of other current and future properties as well. While 77 Greenwich is currently our most significant asset, the amounts required to be set aside in other situations could also be substantial. As a result, these amounts would not be available for investment or operating activities. Our continued operation will be dependent upon the success of future operations and will require raising additional capital on acceptable terms. We have relied and may continue to rely substantially upon equity and debt financing to fund our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of capital will be available to us on commercially favorable terms should our capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. A significant part of our current business plan is focused on the development of 77 Greenwich, and an inability to execute this business plan due to adverse trends in the Manhattan condominium market or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business plan includes the development or redevelopment of our remaining commercial real estate properties and in particular the development of 77 Greenwich, which currently is our largest asset. As a result, our revenues and future growth are heavily dependent on the success of implementing our business plan for 77 Greenwich, which is currently under development. Our plans for 77 Greenwich currently call for approximately 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, in addition to retail and a New York City elementary school. There are a variety of factors that determine Manhattan condominium trends and that will ultimately impact the sales and pricing of condominiums at 77 Greenwich, including among others, supply, changes in interest rates, the availability of home mortgages, foreign exchange rates and local employment trends, prices and velocity of sales. Sales of condominiums in general, and in particular in Manhattan, have historically experienced greater volatility than detached single family houses, which may expose us to more risk. These and other factors fluctuate over time and their status at the time we actually commence sales, which is itself uncertain, is inherently uncertain. An inability to successfully execute our business plan with respect to 77 Greenwich could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our investment in property development for 77 Greenwich and other properties may be more costly than anticipated. We intend to continue to develop or redevelop our current and future properties. Our current and future development and construction activities, including with respect to 77 Greenwich, may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to proceed with the development of properties because we cannot obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all; we may incur construction costs for a development project that exceed our original estimates due to increases in interest rates and increased materials, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project; we may abandon development opportunities after we begin to explore them and as a result we may lose deposits or fail to recover expenses already incurred; we may expend funds on and devote managements time to projects which we do not complete; we may be unable to complete construction and/or leasing of our rental properties and sales of our condominium projects (currently limited to 77 Greenwich) on schedule, or at all; and 6 we may suspend development projects after construction has begun due to changes in economic conditions or other factors, and this may result in the write-off of costs, payment of additional costs or increases in overall costs when the development project is restarted. Investment returns from 77 Greenwich and other properties we may develop may be less than anticipated. Our properties planned to be developed may be exposed to the following risks: we may sell condominiums at 77 Greenwich and other future developed properties at prices, and/or lease commercial and residential properties at current or future properties, that are less than the prices projected at the time we decide to undertake the development; the velocity of leasing at commercial and residential properties, and/or condominium sales at future developed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; and operating expenses may be greater than projected at the time of development, resulting in our investment being less profitable than we expected. Competition for new acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. In addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks associated with acquisitions of and investments in new properties. We may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including potentially large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. Our acquisition and investment activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to complete proposed acquisitions or other transactions due to an inability to meet required closing conditions; we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, acquisition opportunities which we do not complete, which may include non-refundable deposits; we may be unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms as contemplated as part of our underwriting; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; 7 we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of such a property, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in and owning leased real estate in connection with our existing shopping centers, the residential property owned by our joint venture and new properties or investments in leased real estate. These risks include the ability to secure leases with new tenants, the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove or certain upgrades that may be needed should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenants quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation. The occurrence of any of these events, particularly with respect to larger leases at our commercial real estate properties, could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if our competitors offer space at rental rates below our current rates or the market rates, we may lose current or potential tenants to other properties in our markets. Additionally, we may need to reduce rental rates below our current rates or offer incentives in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their leases or to attract new tenants. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected as a result of these factors. We may be unable to lease vacant space, renew our current leases, or re-lease space as our current leases expire. We cannot assure you that leases at our properties will be renewed or that such properties will be re-leased at favorable rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults or space that is currently unoccupied, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources than we have that compete with us in seeking tenants who will lease space in our properties. The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of the major tenants at our commercial real estate properties that causes them to reject their leases, or to not renew their leases as they expire, or renew at lower rental rates, may adversely affect our cash flows and property values. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, direct mail and telemarketing, which could reduce rents payable to us and reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties leading to increased vacancy rates at our properties. 8 In addition, if we are unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. We are subject to the risks associated with partnerships and joint ventures. We formed a joint venture with a third party to acquire and operate The Berkley in Brooklyn, New York. We may become involved in additional partnerships and/or joint ventures in the future with respect to current or future properties. Partnerships and joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made or owned solely by us, including the possibility that our partner or co-venturer might become bankrupt, or may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture, activities conducted by a partner that have a negative impact on the joint venture or us, and disputes with our partner. Also, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of our funds that may be invested in joint ventures. We may not receive or be able to maintain certain tax benefits if we are not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development. We may not receive or be able to maintain certain existing or anticipated tax benefits related to The Berkley or our pending acquisition of 237 11 th Street if we are not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development (the HPD). Both of these properties currently benefit from a real estate tax exemption under New York Real Property Tax Law (the RPTL) Section 421-a, as a result of a specified percentage of the units in such buildings being designated as affordable rate units or market rate units and/or subject to rent stabilization guidelines, among other requirements. Section 421-a of the New York RPTL provides an exemption from real estate taxes on the amount of the assessed value of newly constructed improvements if certain requirements are met. A property cannot maintain or continue to receive Section 421-a tax benefits without HPDs determination that all Section 421-a eligibility requirements have and continue to be met. Although the HPD has issued a final Certificate of Eligibility with respect to the 421-a tax benefits for The Berkley property and we are currently in compliance with all applicable 421-a requirements for such property, and the HPD has issued a preliminary Certificate of Eligibility with respect to the 421-a tax benefits for the 237 11th Street property and the seller of the 237 11 th Street property has represented to us that it is complying with all applicable 421-a requirements for such property, there can be no assurance that compliance with the 421-a requirements for either property will continue to be maintained. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program, as applicable to either of the properties, the HPD may find that such property is ineligible to receive the tax exemption benefits related to the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program. Our ability to develop or redevelop our properties and enter into new leases with tenants will depend on our obtaining certain permits, site plan approvals and other governmental approvals from local municipalities, which we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. In order to develop or redevelop our properties, we will be required to obtain certain permits, site plan approvals or other governmental approvals from local municipalities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits or approvals on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from developing or redeveloping our properties according to our business plan. Additionally, potential acquirors or tenants may also need to obtain certain permits or approvals in order to utilize our properties in the manner they intend to do so. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Our inability to obtain permits and approvals to develop or redevelop our properties, or the inability of potential purchasers and tenants of our properties to obtain necessary permits and approvals, could severely and adversely affect our business. 9 We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These rules are subject to interpretation and change. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our operating properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified management and other personnel, including in particular our President and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Messinger. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract qualified management and other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure of our subsidiaries to repay or refinance outstanding loans, and any liability we incur as a result of the financing arrangements and our guarantees of those loans, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All of our properties secure loan agreements. The failure by our borrower subsidiaries to make scheduled repayments under the loan agreements, or the default of any of the obligations under the loans, would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the applicable subsidiary may be required to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the respective loan and the lenders may exercise other remedies available to them, including foreclosing on the respective property securing the loan. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 Loans Payable and secured line of credit to our consolidated financial statements, for further discussion regarding our financing activities. 10 New U.S. tax laws. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law. This law imposes significant changes on the way we are taxed, including, among other things, changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposing significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, and the migration to a new international system of taxation. There is substantial uncertainty regarding both the timing and the details of how these changes will affect us and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future tax payments may be limited as a result of future transactions. We had approximately $231.0 million of federal NOLs at December 31, 2017. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership by certain stockholders of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOLs after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders who directly or indirectly own 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by us. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of NOLs is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change. If we experience an ownership change, our ability to utilize our NOLs would be subject to significant limitations. Political and economic uncertainty could have an adverse effect on us. We cannot predict how current political and economic uncertainty, including uncertainty related to taxation and increases in interest rates, will affect our critical tenants, joint venture partners, lenders, financial institutions and general economic conditions, including consumer confidence and the volatility of the stock market and real estate market. Political and economic uncertainty poses a risk to us in that it may cause consumers to postpone discretionary spending in response to tighter credit, reduced consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, resulting in a downturn in the business of our tenants. In the event current political and economic uncertainty results in financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Each of these could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. We also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock, listed on the NYSE American, is thinly traded. We cannot assure stockholders that an active market for our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or, if developed, that it will be sustained. As a result stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock. Because our common stock is thinly traded, even small trades can have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for such shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: 11 the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock including at prices that are below the then-current trading price of our common stock; volatility in global and/or U.S. equities markets; changes in the real estate markets in which we operate; our ability to develop or redevelop 77 Greenwich and our other properties; our ability to identify new acquisition and investment opportunities and/or close on previously announced acquisitions or investments; our financial results or those of other companies in our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; changes in generally accepted accounting principles, policies, guidance, or interpretations; and other factors described in our filings with the SEC, including among others in connection with the risks noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, until our common stock is more widely held and actively traded, small sales or purchases may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate dramatically up or down without regard to our financial health or business prospects. Stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities in capital raising transactions or otherwise, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 120,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 79,999,997 shares of common stock, two shares of a class of preferred stock (which were redeemed in accordance with their terms and may not be reissued), one share of a class of special stock and 40,000,000 shares of blank-check preferred stock. As of December 31, 2017, there were 31,451,796 shares of our common stock and one share of special stock outstanding. Any future issuance of our equity securities may dilute then-current stockholders ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. We may need to raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants, as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions and investments, development, redevelopment and repositioning of assets, or for other business purposes. Our board of directors may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common stock without stockholder approval, unless the approval of our common stockholders is required by applicable law, rule or regulation, including NYSE American regulations, or our certificate of incorporation. The terms of preferred equity securities we may issue in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price or have exercise prices below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. 12 A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Capital-raising transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restrictions on resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock could fall. A significant amount of restricted shares previously issued by us have been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the SEC. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate, which would impair our ability to raise capital. More than 50% of our shares of common stock are currently controlled by five of our stockholders who may have the ability to influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. More than 50% of our shares of common stock are controlled by five of our stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders for a vote. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. The holder of our special stock has the right to appoint a member to our board of directors and, consequently, the ability to exert influence over us. In connection with the investment in us by Third Avenue Trust, on behalf of Third Avenue Real Estate Value Fund (Third Avenue), a beneficial holder of 15.56% of our common stock, Third Avenue was issued one share of a class of special stock and our certificate of incorporation was amended to provide that, subject to the other terms and conditions of our certificate of incorporation, from the issuance of the one share of special stock and until the Special Stock Ownership Threshold of 2,345,000 shares of common stock is no longer satisfied, Third Avenue has the right to elect one director to the board of directors. As a result, this stockholder may be able to exert influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our best interests or the best interests of the other stockholders, until such time as the Special Stock Ownership Threshold is no longer satisfied. In order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation includes certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOLs and certain other tax attributes for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, our certificate of incorporation contains certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of our common stock and may have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our stock generally. 13 We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be devoted to our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and such other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investors investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. In addition to the matters identified in the risk factors above relating to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, these provisions include: a classified board of directors with two-year staggered terms; limitations in our certificate of incorporation on acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock designed to protect our NOLs and certain other tax attributes; and authorization for blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock and result in the market price of the common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Below is certain information regarding our commercial real estate properties as of December 31, 2017: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated rentable square feet) Number of Units Leased at December 31, 2017 Occupancy at December 31, 2017 Occupancy at December 31, 2016 Owned Locations New York, New York (77 Greenwich) (1) Property under development - - N/A N/A N/A Paramus, New Jersey (2) Property under development 77,000 - 100 % 100.0 % 100 % West Palm Beach, Florida (3) Retail 112,000 - 67.3 % 67.3 % 67.8 % Total Owned Square Feet 189,000 Joint Venture 223 North 8th Street, Brooklyn, New York - 50% (4) Multi-family 65,000 95 94.7 % 94.7 % 72.6 % Grand Total Square Feet 254,000 (1) 77 Greenwich. We are currently in the development stage for the development of an over 300,000 gross square foot mixed-use building that corresponds to the approximate total of 233,000 zoning square feet. The plans call for the development of approximately 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, 7,500 square feet of street level retail space, a 476-seat elementary school serving New York City District 2, includes the adaptive reuse of the landmarked Robert and Anne Dickey House, and construction of a new handicapped accessible subway entrance on Trinity Place. The school project has obtained city council and mayoral approval. Environmental remediation and demolition was completed in the third quarter of 2017, and excavation and foundation work has begun. On December 22, 2017, we closed on a $189.5 million construction loan. We will draw down proceeds available to us under the construction loan as costs related to the construction are incurred over the next few years. We currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the construction loan, together with equity funded by us to date and future contributions by the New York City School Construction Authority (SCA), will be sufficient to finance the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit for further information). Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we also entered into an agreement with the SCA, whereby we will construct a school that will be sold to the SCA as part of our condominium development at the 77 Greenwich property. Pursuant to the agreement, the SCA will pay us $41.5 million which has been allocated to land and reimburse us for the costs associated with constructing the school (including a construction supervision fee of approximately $5.0 million). Payments for construction will be made by the SCA to the general contractor in installments as construction on their condominium progresses. Payments for the land and development fee will be received starting in January 2018 through September 2019. Upon Substantial Completion, as defined, the SCA shall purchase the school condominium unit. We are required to substantially complete construction of the school by September 6, 2023. To secure our obligations, the 77 Greenwich property has been ground leased to the SCA and leased back to us until title to the school is transferred to the SCA. We have also guaranteed certain obligations with respect to the construction. The condominium apartments along with the subway improvements are currently scheduled to be completed by year end 2020. 14 (2) Paramus Property. The Paramus property consists of a one-story and partial two-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet, for approximately 77,000 total square feet of rentable space. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building was leased pursuant to a short-term license agreement to Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: RH) (Restoration Hardware) from October 15, 2015 to February 29, 2016 when the tenant vacated the property. Subsequently, we entered into a new twelve month license agreement with Restoration Hardware that began on June 1, 2016, which is terminable upon one months notice to the other party, and which has since been extended to end on March 31, 2019. The outparcel building is leased to a tenant whose lease expires on March 31, 2019. The tenant has been in the space since 1996. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres. We have entered into an option agreement with Carmax (NYSE:KMX), pursuant to which Carmax will construct a new building after we obtain approvals and demolish the existing buildings. The option agreement includes a fully negotiated lease agreement. This transaction is subject to town approvals based on the potential tenants intended use of the site. (3) West Palm Beach Property. The West Palm Beach property consists of a one-story neighborhood retail strip center that is comprised of approximately 112,000 square feet of rentable area, which includes three outparcel locations with approximately 11,000 combined square feet. The land area of the West Palm Beach property consists of approximately 515,000 square feet, or approximately 11.8 acres. Our redevelopment and repositioning of the center is complete. We will incur additional lease-up costs as the current vacancies are filled. Our two largest tenants are Walmart Marketplace, with 41,662 square feet of space and Tire Kingdom, a national credit tenant who took possession of a 5,400 square feet outparcel. (4) 223 North 8 th Street. Through a joint venture with Pacolet Milliken Enterprises, Inc., we own a 50% interest in the entity formed to acquire and operate The Berkley, a newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property encompassing approximately 99,000 gross square feet (65,000 rentable square feet) on 223 North 8 th Street in North Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. The Berkley is in close proximity to public transportation and offers a full amenity package. Apartments feature top-of-the-line unit finishes, central air conditioning and heating and most units have private outdoor space. The property benefits from a 25-year 421-a real estate tax exemption. Lease Expirations The following chart shows the tenancy, by year of lease expiration, of our retail properties for all tenants in place as of December 31, 2017, excluding the license agreement with Restoration Hardware (dollars in thousands): Number of Tenants Leased Square Feet by Year of Expiration Annualized Rent in Year of Expiration (A) 2018 (B) 1 1,200 $ 13 2019 1 4,000 140 2020 8 12,488 245 2021 2 7,063 119 2022 1 1,200 21 Thereafter 5 53,662 1,066 18 79,613 $ 1,604 (A) This is calculated by multiplying the rent in the final month of the lease by 12. (B) Reflects tenants with a month-to-month tenancy. 15 Corporate Headquarters We lease our corporate headquarters in New York, New York (approximately 6,271 square feet). The lease expires in March 2025. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are a party to routine legal proceedings, which are primarily incidental to our former business. Some of the actions to which we are a party are covered by insurance and are being defended or reimbursed by our insurance carriers. Based on an analysis performed by our actuary and available information and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from this routine litigation will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Additionally, as discussed in Item 1. Business, on January 18, 2018, the Reorganized Debtors filed with the Bankruptcy Court a motion (the Motion) for entry of the Final Decree (i) closing the chapter 11 cases of the Reorganized Debtors; (ii) terminating the services of the claims and noticing agent; and (iii) retaining the Bankruptcy Courts jurisdiction as provided for in the Plan, including to enforce or interpret its own orders pertaining to the chapter 11 cases including, but not limited to, the Plan and Final Decree. On the same date, the Reorganized Debtors filed a Final Report in support of the Motion. On February 6, 2018, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Final Decree pursuant to which the chapter 11 cases of the Reorganized Debtors were closed. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES On December 21, 2015 our common stock began trading on the NYSE American. The trading symbol of our common stock is TPHS. The following table summarizes the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of the common stock as reported in the NYSE American for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. For the Year Ended December 31, 2017 For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 9.97 $ 6.65 $ 7.18 $ 5.25 Second Quarter $ 7.71 $ 6.56 $ 8.05 $ 6.36 Third Quarter $ 7.50 $ 6.53 $ 10.37 $ 6.91 Fourth Quarter $ 7.59 $ 6.70 $ 10.13 $ 8.77 Outstanding Common Stock and Holders As of March 15, 2018, we had 36,984,753 shares issued and 31,554,643 shares outstanding and there were approximately 177 record holders of our common stock. 16 Dividends No dividends were paid during either of the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In accordance with the terms of the employment agreement between us and Matthew Messinger, our President and Chief Executive Officer, on December 29, 2017, Mr. Messinger was granted 30,000 restricted stock unit awards (the RSU Awards). The issuance of the RSU Awards was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not repurchase any stock during the year ended December 31, 2017. Performance Graph The following graph is a comparison of the cumulative return of our shares of common stock from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2017, the Standard & Poors 500 Index (the S&P 500 Index) and the FTSE National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) All Equity Index, a peer group index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on January 1, 2013 in our shares of common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the NAREIT All Equity Index and assumes the reinvestment of all dividends (if applicable), and that no commissions were paid. There can be no assurance that the performance of our shares will continue in line with the same or similar trends depicted in the graph below. 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 Trinity Place Holdings Inc. $ 100.00 $ 136.36 $ 141.41 $ 123.83 $ 187.27 $ 140.40 S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 $ 132.39 $ 150.51 $ 152.59 $ 171.84 $ 208.14 The NAREIT All Equity Index (FNERTR Index) $ 100.00 $ 102.86 $ 131.68 $ 135.40 $ 147.09 $ 159.85 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth our selected financial data and should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 The below selected financial data does not include any information prior to February 10, 2015 as we were reporting on the liquidation basis of accounting during the periods prior to February 10, 2015. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. Our accounting basis reverted to the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015, resulting in all remaining assets and liabilities at that date being adjusted to their net book value less an adjustment for depreciation and/or amortization calculated from the date we entered liquidation through the date we emerged from liquidation. Accordingly, this change in accounting basis resulted in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. Also on November 12, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a change to our fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to the last day of February to a December 31 calendar year end, effective with the year ended December 31, 2015. The period that resulted from this change is March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Because the bases of accounting are non-comparable to each other as well as due to the change in our fiscal year, we are not reporting selected financial data for the periods prior to February 10, 2015. For the Year Ended December 31, 2017 For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 For the Period March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 For the Period February 10, 2015 to February 28, 2015 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Statement of Operations Data Total revenues $ 1,862 $ 1,856 $ 841 $ 43 Total operating expenses 11,081 9,034 7,583 346 Operating loss (9,219 ) (7,178 ) (6,742 ) (303 ) Equity in net loss of unconsolidated joint venture (1,057 ) (308 ) - - Interest income (expense), net 215 42 (246 ) (40 ) Interest expense - amortization of deferred finance costs - (98 ) (63 ) (17 ) Reduction of claims liability 1,043 132 557 - Loss before gain on sale of real estate and taxes (9,018 ) (7,410 ) (6,494 ) (360 ) Gain on sale of real estate 3,853 - - - Tax benefit (expense) 3,144 (26 ) (67 ) (2 ) Net loss available to common stockholders $ (2,021 ) $ (7,436 ) $ (6,561 ) $ (362 ) Loss per share - basic and diluted $ (0.07 ) $ (0.29 ) $ (0.32 ) $ (0.02 ) Weighted average number of common shares - basic and diluted 30,451 25,439 20,518 20,016 Balance Sheet Data (in thousands) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 February 28, 2015 Real estate, net $ 76,269 $ 60,384 $ 42,638 $ 31,121 Investment in unconsolidated joint venture 12,533 13,939 - - Total assets 121,015 85,601 86,571 78,258 Loans payable, net 36,167 48,705 39,615 39,323 Total stockholders' equity 67,290 28,025 24,966 5,201 Cash Flow Data (in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2017 For the Year Ended December 31, 2016 For the Period March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 For the Period February 10, 2015 to February 28, 2015 Cash flows (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (4,640 ) $ (14,842 ) $ (7,034 ) $ (114 ) Investing activities (9,726 ) (26,214 ) (6,278 ) (511 ) Financing activities 24,961 7,561 27,615 - 18 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion related to our consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Trinity Place Holdings Inc. (Trinity, we, our, or us) is a real estate holding, investment and asset management company. Our business is primarily to acquire, invest in, own, manage, develop or redevelop and sell real estate assets and/or real estate related securities. Transactions, Development and Other Activities During 2017 77 Greenwich Environmental remediation and demolition was completed in the third quarter of 2017, and excavation and foundation work has begun. On December 22, 2017, we entered into a $189.5 million construction loan agreement. We will draw down proceeds available to us as costs related to the construction are incurred for 77 Greenwich over the next few years, in addition to equity already funded by us and future contributions by the SCA. In conjunction with the closing of the construction loan, we repaid in full the outstanding balance, including accrued interest, of our loan from Sterling National Bank in the aggregate amount of $40.1 million. The balance outstanding under this new construction loan agreement was $32.3 million at December 31, 2017 and $36.5 million at February 28, 2018. Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we also entered into an agreement with the SCA, whereby we will construct a school that will be sold to the SCA as part of our condominium development at the 77 Greenwich property. Pursuant to the agreement, the SCA will pay us $41.5 million which has been allocated to land and reimburse us for the costs associated with constructing the school (including a construction supervision fee of approximately $5.0 million). Payments for construction will be made by the SCA to the general contractor in installments as construction on their condominium progresses. Payments for the land and development fee will be received starting in January 2018 through September 2019. Upon Substantial Completion, as defined, the SCA shall purchase the school condominium unit. We are required to substantially complete construction of the school by September 6, 2023. To secure our obligations, the 77 Greenwich property has been ground leased to the SCA and leased back to us until title to the school is transferred to the SCA. We have also guaranteed certain obligations with respect to the construction. The condominium apartments along with the subway improvements are currently scheduled to be completed by year end 2020. Although there can be no assurances, we currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the construction loan, together with equity funded by us to date and future contributions by the SCA, will be sufficient to finance the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. Acquisitions and Divestitures On September 8, 2017, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which we acquired an option to purchase a newly built 105-unit, 12 story apartment building located at 237 11th Street, Brooklyn, New York for a purchase price of $81.0 million. We exercised the option on March 9, 2018. We paid an initial deposit of $8.1 million upon entering into the agreement. The purchase price will be funded through acquisition financing and cash on hand. Following the closing and pursuant to a separate agreement, an affiliate of the seller may continue to manage and promote the 237 11 th Street property for a limited period and an affiliate of such manager will have the ability to receive an additional payment based on the performance of the property as it relates to revenues and concessions and other expenses during such period, which is currently estimated to be up to approximately 1% of the purchase price. The acquisition of the 237 11 th Street property, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to close in the spring of 2018. In August 2017, we sold our property located in Westbury, New York for a gross sale price of $16.0 million. The sale resulted in a gain of $3.9 million and generated approximately $15.2 million in net proceeds to us. Equity Transactions On February 14, 2017, we issued an aggregate of 3,585,000 shares of common stock in a private placement at a purchase price of $7.50 per share, and received gross proceeds of $26.9 million (the Private Placement). On April 5, 2017, we issued an aggregate of 1,884,564 shares of common stock in a rights offering at a purchase price of $7.50 per share and received gross proceeds of $14.1 million (the Rights Offering). We have been using the proceeds from the private placement and the Rights Offering for the development of 77 Greenwich, potential new real estate acquisitions and investment opportunities and for working capital. 19 Secured Debt Transactions On February 22, 2017, we entered into two secured lines of credit for an aggregate of $12.0 million, with Sterling National Bank as the lender, which were secured by our properties located in Paramus, New Jersey, and Westbury, New York, respectively, and had an original maturity date of February 22, 2018. On August 4, 2017, in connection with the sale of the Westbury, New York property, the $2.9 million line of credit that was secured by this property, and which was undrawn, matured on that date. The $9.1 million line of credit, which is secured by the Paramus, New Jersey property, was increased to $11.0 million in September 2017, and we extended the maturity date to February 22, 2019. The line of credit bears interest, for drawn amounts only, at 100 basis points over Prime (as defined in the loan agreement), with a floor of 3.75%, and is pre-payable at any time without penalty. As of December 31, 2017 and March 15, 2018, this line of credit was undrawn and the full $11 million was available. Other Developments/Redevelopments We extended short-term lease and license agreements with our retail tenants at our Paramus property in order to mitigate our carry costs while we evaluate a variety of opportunities. Results of Operations Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 The discussion below includes revenue and expenses from the Westbury, New York property as of May 8, 2017 when the property was classified as an asset held for sale through its date of sale on August 4, 2017. In prior periods, this propertys revenues and expenses were capitalized as the property was considered as real estate under development. Rental revenues were relatively flat for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, at $1.3 million. Tenant reimbursements increased by $34,000 to $575,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $541,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in tenant reimbursements was mainly due to increased tenancy for the full year in 2017 as compared to 2016 at the West Palm Beach, Florida property, as well as the inclusion of the revenues at the Westbury, New York property, partially offset by the reconciliation of real estate tax recoveries in 2016 for certain tenants whose leases commenced in 2015. Property operating expenses increased by $109,000 to $733,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $624,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. These amounts consisted of costs incurred for maintenance and repairs, utilities and general operating expenses at our West Palm Beach, Florida property and the Westbury, New York property. The increase was mainly due to the increased tenancy at the West Palm Beach, Florida property and the inclusion of the Westbury, New York property. Real estate tax expense increased by $192,000 to $467,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $275,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase related to increased real estate taxes at the West Palm Beach, Florida property and inclusion of the Westbury, New York property. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $1.6 million to $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from approximately $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately $1.1 million related to stock-based compensation, $2.0 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.7 million related to other corporate costs including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $1.0 million related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. For the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately $2.8 million related to stock-based compensation, $1.6 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.5 million related to other corporate costs including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $1.5 million related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. The overall decrease of approximately $1.6 million is mainly a result of a $1.7 million reduction in stock-based compensation related to restricted stock units (RSUs) that were granted in the first quarter of 2016, which included 99,000 RSU grants that vested immediately. 20 Transaction related costs decreased by $160,000 to $83,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $243,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. These costs represent professional fees and other costs incurred in connection with formation activities and the underwriting and evaluation of potential acquisitions and investments for deals that were not consummated. The decrease is also due to the adoption of a new accounting standard in 2017 that provides for the capitalization of costs relating to acquisitions that were expensed prior to January 1, 2017 (see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Accounting Standards Update). Depreciation and amortization expense increased by approximately $87,000 to $544,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 from approximately $457,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately $246,000 related to depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property, approximately $3,000 related to computers and furniture and fixtures, and approximately $295,000 related to the amortization of trademarks and lease commissions. For the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately $205,000 related to depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property and approximately $252,000 related to the amortization of trademarks and lease commissions. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 was primarily attributable to depreciation commencing in June 2016 when the assets relating to redevelopment at the West Palm Beach, Florida location were placed in service. Costs relating to demolished assets for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $3.4 million. This related to the 77 Greenwich propertys acceleration of depreciation of the building and building improvements and the demolition costs at 77 Greenwich which was accelerated due to the completion of demolition of the 57,000 square foot six-story commercial building in 2017. Operating loss increased by approximately $2.0 million to $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 as a result of the changes in revenues and operating expenses as described above. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint venture increased by approximately $749,000 to $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to approximately $308,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. This represents our 50% share in the joint venture of the newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property in Brooklyn, New York purchased on December 5, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2017 our share of the loss is primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $1.2 million offset by depreciation and amortization of $1.5 million, interest expense of $726,000 and other expenses of $6,000. For the year ended December 31, 2016 our share of the loss is primarily due to one-time transaction related costs of $198,000 and depreciation and amortization of $110,000. Interest income, net increased by approximately $173,000 to $215,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017 from approximately $42,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2017, there was approximately $2.5 million of gross interest incurred, all of which was capitalized, and $215,000 of interest income. For the year ended December 31, 2016, there was approximately $2.1 million of gross interest incurred, of which there was approximately $1.9 million of capitalized interest, and $223,000 of interest income. The increase in interest income, net, for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $173,000 is primarily attributable to a higher percent of capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Interest expense - amortization of deferred finance costs were $0 for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to $98,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2017, all $742,000 of amortization of debt issuance costs were capitalized to real estate under development. For the year ended December 31, 2016, $345,000 of the $443,000 of amortization was capitalized to real estate under development. We recorded an adjustment to our claims liability for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $1.0 million due to the settlement with our insurance carrier. We recorded an adjustment to our claims liability for the year ended December 31, 2016 of $132,000 which was due mainly to the positive settlement of the former Majority Shareholder liability. 21 Gain on sale of real estate for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $3.9 million due to the sale of the Westbury, New York property on August 4, 2017 which generated approximately $15.2 million in net proceeds. No properties were sold during 2016. We recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. This was due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act) whereby Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) credit carryforwards will be eligible for a 50% refund through tax years 2018 through 2020. Beginning in tax year 2021, any remaining AMT credit carryforwards would be 100% refundable. As a result of these new regulations, we have released our valuation allowance of $3.1 million formerly reserved against our AMT credit carryforwards. We recorded approximately $26,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016. Net loss available to common stockholders decreased by $5.4 million to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 as a result of the changes in revenue and expenses detailed above. Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 Compared to the Ten-Month Period from March 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015 Our fiscal year and that of our predecessor was historically a 52-week or 53-week period ending on the Saturday on or nearest to February 28. On November 12, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a change to a December 31 calendar year end, effective with the year ended December 31, 2015. The transition period that resulted from this change was March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Because the bases of accounting are non-comparable to each other as well as due to the change in our fiscal year, we are excluding all information from the period prior to February 10, 2015 from any disclosure or discussion. Due to the change in our fiscal year end, the comparable period presented only covers the ten-month period from March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, which is a shorter period than the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 and thus is not directly comparable. Total rental revenues and tenant reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $1.9 million. Total revenues for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $841,000. These amounts represent rental revenues and tenant expense reimbursements from our West Palm Beach, Florida and Paramus, New Jersey properties. The relative increase was mainly due to the increased occupancy at the West Palm Beach property since June 2016. Property operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $624,000. Property operating expenses for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $576,000. These amounts consisted of costs incurred for maintenance and repairs, utilities and general operating expenses at our West Palm Beach, Florida property. Real estate tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $275,000 for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. Real estate tax expense for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $165,000, primarily for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $7.4 million. Of this amount, approximately $2.8 million related to stock-based compensation, $1.6 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.5 million related to other corporate costs including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $1.5 million related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. General and administrative expenses for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $6.5 million. Of this amount, approximately $1.4 million related to stock-based compensation, $1.5 million related to payroll and payroll related costs, $1.4 million related to other corporate costs including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $2.2 million related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. The total increase of $0.9 million in general and administrative expenses from 2015 mainly related to the vesting of stock-based compensation related to RSU grants from the December 2015 rights offering. 22 Transaction related costs of $243,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 represent professional fees and other costs incurred in connection with formation activities and underwriting and evaluating potential acquisitions and investments which are required to be expensed in accordance with the accounting for business combinations. Depreciation and amortization expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $457,000. These costs consisted of depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property of approximately $205,000 and the amortization of trademarks and lease commissions of approximately $252,000. Depreciation and amortization expenses for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $309,000. These costs consisted of depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property of $122,000, as well as amortization of trademarks and deferred financing costs of $187,000. Operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $7.2 million. Operating loss for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $6.7 million. Equity in net loss of unconsolidated joint venture for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $308,000. This amount represents our 50% share in the joint venture of the newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property in Brooklyn, New York purchased on December 5, 2016. Our share of the loss is primarily due to one-time transaction related costs of $198,000 and depreciation and amortization of $110,000. Interest income, net, for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $42,000, which consisted of $2.1 million of gross interest expense offset by $1.9 million of capitalized interest and $223,000 of interest income. Interest expense, net, for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $246,000 which consisted of $1.5 million of gross interest expense offset by $1.2 million of capitalized interest and $87,000 of interest income. Interest expense-amortization of deferred finance costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $98,000, which consisted of $443,000 of amortization of costs related to obtaining the loans encumbering 77 Greenwich and West Palm Beach, Florida partially offset by $345,000 of capitalized costs. Interest expense-amortization of deferred finance costs for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $63,000, which consisted of $291,000 of amortization of costs related to obtaining the loan encumbering 77 Greenwich partially offset by $228,000 of capitalized costs. We recorded an adjustment to our claims liability for the year ended December 31, 2016 of $132,000 which was due mainly to the positive settlement of the former Majority Shareholder liability. We recorded an adjustment to our claims liability for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 of $557,000 which was due to the lower settlement of certain claims. We recorded approximately $26,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016. We recorded tax expense for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 of approximately $67,000. Net loss available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $7.4 million. Net loss available to common stockholders for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $6.6 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently expect that our principal sources of funds to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements for working capital and funds for acquisition and development or redevelopment of properties, tenant improvements, leasing costs, and repayments of outstanding indebtedness will include: (1) cash on hand; 23 (2) increases to existing financings and/or other forms of secured financing; (3) proceeds from common stock or preferred equity offerings, including rights offerings; (4) cash flow from operations; and (5) net proceeds from divestitures of properties or interests in properties. Cash flow from operations is primarily dependent upon the occupancy level of our portfolio, the net effective rental rates achieved on our leases, the collectability of rent, operating escalations and recoveries from our tenants and the level of operating and other costs. As of December 31, 2017, we had total cash of $24.2 million, of which approximately $15.3 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $8.9 million was restricted cash. As of December 31, 2016, we had total cash of $8.4 million, of which approximately $4.7 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $3.7 million was restricted cash. Restricted cash represents reserves required to be restricted under our loan agreements (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements), deposit on property acquisitions and tenant related security deposits. The increase in total cash during the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily the result of the Private Placement and the Rights Offering, in which we raised total net proceeds of approximately $40.6 million, as well as the sale of our Westbury, New York property, which generated approximately $15.2 million in net proceeds. The proceeds generated from these activities were partially offset by payments for operating expenses and pre-development and development activities. As of February 28, 2018, we had total cash of $33.6 million which is comprised of cash and cash equivalents of $25.4 million and restricted cash of $8.2 million. On December 22, 2017, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours closed on a $189.5 million construction loan facility for 77 Greenwich (the 77 Greenwich Construction Loan). We will draw down proceeds available to us as costs related to the construction are incurred for 77 Greenwich over the next few years. In connection with the closing of the 77 Greenwich Construction Loan on December 22, 2017, a portion of the proceeds on the closing date was used to pay in full the outstanding balance, including accrued interest, under our loan with Sterling National Bank, in an aggregate amount of $40.1 million. The balance of the 77 Greenwich Construction Loan was $32.3 million at December 31, 2017 and $36.5 million at February 28, 2018. The 77 Greenwich Construction Loan has a four-year term with one extension option for an additional year under certain circumstances. The collateral for the 77 Greenwich Construction Loan is Borrowers fee interest in 77 Greenwich, which is the subject of a mortgage in favor of Lender. The 77 Greenwich Construction Loan will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (i) 8.25% in excess of LIBOR and (ii) 9.25% (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion). Although there can be no assurances, we currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the 77 Greenwich Construction Loan, together with equity funded by us to date and future contributions by the SCA, will be sufficient to finance the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. On February 22, 2017, we entered into two secured lines of credit for an aggregate of $12.0 million, with Sterling National Bank as the lender, which were secured by our properties located in Paramus, New Jersey, and Westbury, New York, respectively, and had an original maturity date of February 22, 2018. On August 4, 2017, we closed on the sale of the Westbury, New York property and the $2.9 million line of credit that was secured by this property, which was undrawn, matured on that date. The $9.1 million line of credit, which is secured by the Paramus, New Jersey property, was increased to $11.0 million in September 2017, and we extended the maturity date to February 22, 2019. The line of credit bears interest, for drawn amounts only, at 100 basis points over Prime, as defined, with a floor of 3.75%, and is pre-payable at any time without penalty. As of December 31, 2017 and March 15, 2018, the $11.0 million line of credit was undrawn. On May 11, 2016, our subsidiary that owns our West Palm Beach, Florida property, commonly known as The Shoppes at Forest Hill, entered into a loan agreement with Citizens Bank, National Association, as Lender, pursuant to which the Lender agreed to provide a loan in the amount of up to $12.6 million, subject to the terms and conditions as set forth in the loan agreement (the WPB Loan). Our subsidiary borrowed $9.1 million at closing. This loan requires interest-only payments and bears interest at the 30-day LIBOR plus 230 basis points. The effective rate at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 3.86% and 3.07%, respectively. This loan matures on May 11, 2019, subject to extension until May 11, 2021 under certain circumstances. The balance of the WPB Loan was $9.1 million at both December 31, 2017 and February 28, 2018. The Borrower can prepay the Loan at any time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. 24 We believe our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with proceeds raised from equity issuances, debt issuances, dispositions of properties and/or draws on our $11 million line of credit, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs and projected capital and other expenditures associated with our operations over the next 12 months. At-The-Market Equity Offering Program In December 2016, we entered into an at-the-market equity offering program (the ATM Program), to sell up to an aggregate of $12.0 million of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we sold 120,299 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $1.2 million (excluding approximately $218,000 in professional and brokerage fees) at a weighted average price of $9.76 per share. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we issued 2,492 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $23,000 at a weighted average price of $9.32 per share. As of December 31, 2017, $10.8 million of common stock remained available for issuance under the ATM Program. The sale agreement with our broker expired in accordance with its terms on December 31, 2017. We may enter into a similar sale agreement in the future. Cash Flows Cash Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to approximately $14.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease of approximately $10.2 million of net cash used was due mainly to a one-time $6.9 million payment to the former Majority Shareholder made in 2016, which was partially offset by the gain on the sale of the Westbury, New York property of approximately $3.9 million in 2017, as well as a $5.4 million decrease in net loss, a $1.6 million write-off of demolished asset and the release of $3.2 million of restricted cash related to the $40.0 million Prior 77 Greenwich Loan payment, partially offset by the $3.1 million AMT receivable resulting from the ACT. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $9.7 million as compared to approximately $26.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease of approximately $16.5 million mainly pertained to the net proceeds from the sale of the Westbury, New York property on August 4, 2017 of approximately $15.2 million partially offset by approximately $4.9 million more in development work being performed this year at our properties compared to the same period last year. There was also a $14.3 million investment in our unconsolidated joint venture in 2016 as compared to an $8.1 million restricted initial cash deposit for our option to purchase a property at 237 11th Street, Brooklyn, New York in 2017. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $25.0 million as compared to approximately $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase mainly results from our Private Placement of common stock in February 2017 in which we raised net proceeds of approximately $26.6 million as well as our Rights Offering in April 2017 in which we raised net proceeds of approximately $13.9 million. Partially offsetting this was the payment in full of the Prior 77 Greenwich Loan in the amount of $40.0 million and the receipt of proceeds of $32.3 million from our new 77 Greenwich Construction Loan, excluding $5.3 million of fees related to this loan. 25 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Claims (1) $ 1,735 $ 813 $ 922 $ - $ - Operating lease (2) 3,200 348 1,325 1,527 - Loans payable (3) 41,402 - 9,100 32,302 - Interest expense on loans (4) 13,257 3,569 6,554 3,134 - Total contractual obligations $ 59,594 $ 4,730 $ 17,901 $ 36,963 $ - (1) This represents the remaining claims payments we expect to make under the multiemployer pension plan. Payments are made quarterly extending through the beginning of 2020. (2) This represents the operating lease payments for our corporate office in New York, New York. (3) See Note 10 - Loans Payable and Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the loans. This excludes $5.2 million of net deferred financing costs. (4) This represents the estimated monthly interest expense on the loans that are typically paid on the first business day after the month incurred based on interest rates in effect on December 31, 2017. Capital Expenditures We estimate that for the year ending December 31, 2018, we may incur approximately $350,000 of capital expenditures and development or redevelopment expenditures (including tenant improvements and leasing commissions) on existing properties, other than 77 Greenwich. We anticipate funding these capital expenditures through a combination of issuance of equity and cash on hand, additional property level mortgage financings and operating cash flow. We currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the construction loan, together with equity funded by us to date and future contributions by the SCA, will be sufficient to finance the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. Future property acquisitions may require substantial capital investments for refurbishment and leasing costs. Inflation Substantially all of our leases provide for separate real estate tax and operating expense escalations. In addition, many of the leases provide for fixed base rent increases. We believe that inflationary increases will be at least partially offset by the contractual rent increases and expense escalations described above. Net Operating Losses We believe that our U.S. Federal NOLs as of the emergence date were approximately $162.8 million and believe our U.S. Federal NOLs at December 31, 2017 were approximately $231.0 million. Pursuant to the Act, AMT credit carryforwards will be eligible for a 50% refund through tax years 2018 through 2020. Beginning in tax year 2021, any remaining AMT credit carryforwards would be 100% refundable. As a result of these new regulations, we have released our valuation allowance of $3.1 million formerly reserved against our AMT credit carryforwards. We have recorded a tax benefit and refund receivable of $3.1 million in connection with this valuation allowance release. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that the entire deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategies. Accordingly a valuation allowance of $59.5 million was recorded as of December 31, 2017. 26 We believe that the rights offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder that occurred in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012 resulted in us undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, we believe that we should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, we currently believe that our NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382. However, if we were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, our NOLs could be subject to limitation under Code Section 382. Notwithstanding the above, even if all of our regular U.S. Federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing our NOLs, we may still be subject to the U.S. Federal alternative minimum tax and to state, local or other non-Federal income taxes. On February 12, 2015, we amended our certificate of incorporation to, among other things, add a new provision to the certificate of incorporation intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with our NOLs (the Protective Amendment). The Protective Amendment generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. Change from Liquidation Accounting to Going Concern Accounting In response to the Chapter 11 filing, we adopted the liquidation basis of accounting effective October 30, 2011. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. On February 10, 2015, we changed our basis of accounting from the liquidation basis of accounting to the going concern basis of accounting. Accordingly, our accounting basis for real estate and trademark assets were adjusted to their net book values at the date we changed back to the going concern basis of accounting, adjusted for depreciation and amortization calculated from the date we entered liquidation through the date we emerged from liquidation. This change in accounting basis resulted in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. Critical Accounting Policies As noted above, we resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015 and adjusted our assets and liabilities back to their historical cost, adjusted for a catchup of depreciation and amortization during the liquidation period. a. Real Estate - Real estate assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. All costs related to the improvement or replacement of real estate properties are capitalized. Additions, renovations and improvements that enhance and/or extend the useful life of a property are also capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance, repairs and improvements that do not materially prolong the normal useful life of an asset are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are determined using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, as described in the table below: 27 Category Terms Building and improvements 10 - 39 years Tenant improvements Shorter of remaining term of the lease or useful life b. Real Estate Under Development - We capitalize certain costs related to the development and redevelopment of real estate including initial project acquisition costs, pre-construction costs and construction costs for each specific property. Additionally we capitalize operating costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance and compensation and related costs of personnel directly involved with the specific project related to real estate under development. Capitalization of these costs begin when the activities and related expenditures commence, and cease when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity at which time the project is placed in service and depreciation commences. Revenue earned under short-term license agreements at properties under development is offset against these capitalized costs. c. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets We periodically review long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We consider relevant cash flow, managements strategic plans and significant decreases in the market value of the asset and other available information in assessing whether the carrying value of the assets can be recovered. When such events occur, we compare the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted expected future cash flows, excluding interest charges, from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this comparison indicates an impairment, the carrying amount would then be compared to the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. No provision for impairment was recorded during either of the years ended December 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 or the period March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. d. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method as required by the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10-30, Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. e. Deferred Financing Costs - Deferred financing costs represent commitment fees, legal, title and other third party costs associated with obtaining commitments for mortgage financing which result in a closing of such financing. These costs are being offset against loans payable in the consolidated balance sheets for mortgage financings and are included in prepaid expense and other assets, net for our secured line of credit. These costs are amortized over the terms of the respective financing agreements. Unamortized deferred financing costs are expensed when the associated debt is refinanced or repaid before maturity. Costs incurred in seeking financing transactions which do not close are expensed in the period in which it is determined that the financing will not close. f. Revenue Recognition - Leases with tenants are accounted for as operating leases. Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases, beginning when the tenant takes possession of the space. The excess of rents recognized over amounts contractually due pursuant to the underlying leases are included in deferred rents receivable. In addition, leases typically provide for the reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and certain other property operating expenses. These reimbursements are recognized as revenue in the period the expenses are incurred. We make estimates of the collectability of our accounts receivable related to tenant revenues. An allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided against certain tenant accounts receivable that are estimated to be uncollectible. Once the amount is ultimately deemed to be uncollectible, it is written off. 28 g. Stock-based Compensation - We have granted stock-based compensation, which is described in Note 12 Stock-Based Compensation to the consolidated financial statements. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-30-30, which establishes accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services. Under the provisions of ASC 718-10-35, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award on that date, and is expensed at the grant date (for the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the respective vesting periods. Accounting Standards Updates See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements.