Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19 and such impact could continue to be material. The impact of the outbreak of COVID-19 on our results and operations has been and may continue to be significant. The extent of the impact going forward will largely depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the severity and duration of the outbreak, in New York City in particular, the success of actions taken to contain or treat COVID-19, actions taken by governmental entities, companies and individuals in response to the pandemic and reactions to such actions, the impact on local and broader economic activity and capital markets and new information with respect to the foregoing and other aspects of COVID-19. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact the Companys business, operations and financial results in the future will depend on numerous evolving factors that the Company is not able to predict, including, but not limited to, the impact on sales of residential condominium units at our most significant asset, 77 Greenwich, which has been material, the impact on the timeline for construction of 77 Greenwich; the impact on the timing of the 237 11 th litigation due to backlog in the New York City court system and the slowdown in judicial proceedings, and the receipt of any payments we may receive in connection with the litigation; our ability to obtain maturity extensions and covenant modifications with respect to our loan agreements, if needed, on acceptable terms; increased operating costs related to cleaning and disinfecting our properties; the effect of the pandemic on the Companys tenants and their ability to make rental payments; and the impact of decisions of the NYC Rent Guidelines Board on our ability to raise rents. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources COVID-19 Pandemic, Managements Plans and Liquidity for further information. 4 Table of Contents We have not generated an operating profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long-term viability cannot be assured. Since our formation, we have generated limited revenues and had negative cash flow from operations. The development of our business plan has required, and will continue to require, substantial capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities. We have limited cash resources, generate minimal revenues from operations, and are reliant on external sources of capital to fund ongoing operations. Our revenue generating activities have not yet produced sufficient funds for profitable operations. In addition, we are required to set aside specified minimum levels of liquidity, inclusive of cash and line of credit capacity, in connection with the development and financing of 77 Greenwich, subject to release in certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2021, this amount was $4.0 million. As a result, these amounts are not available for investment or operating activities. Accordingly, our continued operation will be dependent upon the success of future operations and will require raising additional capital on acceptable terms. We have relied and will continue to rely substantially upon equity and debt financing to fund our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of capital will be available to us on commercially favorable terms should our capital requirements exceed cash available from operations, proceeds from the sale of The Berkley, which is currently under contract, and existing cash and cash equivalents. In addition, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, because of a low stock price, unfavorable market conditions or otherwise, could affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. If we are unable to raise capital on market terms, or if the sale of The Berkley does not close timely, our ability to run our operations and/or grow through new acquisitions and investments, and thus become profitable, could be materially adversely impacted. A significant part of our current business plan is focused on completion of the development of and the sale of condominiums at 77 Greenwich, and an inability to execute this business plan due to adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business plan includes the development or redevelopment of our legacy commercial real estate properties and in particular completion of the development of and the sale of condominiums at 77 Greenwich, which currently is our largest asset. As a result, our revenues and future growth are heavily dependent on the success of implementing our business plan for 77 Greenwich. 77 Greenwich consists of 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, in addition to a retail condominium unit and a New York City elementary school condominium unit. A variety of factors determine New York City residential condominium trends and will impact the sales and pricing of the residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich. These factors include, among others, available supply, changes in interest rates, the availability of home mortgages, foreign exchange rates, foreign buyer patterns, local employment trends, and prices and velocity of sales. Sales of residential condominium units in general, and in particular in New York City, have historically experienced greater volatility than detached single family houses, which may expose us to more risk. These and other factors fluctuate over time. Based on a number of reports, there is a historically high number of unsold units in newly constructed luxury residential condominiums in New York City, which has resulted in demand and pricing pressures. When we commenced sales in the spring of 2019, the New York City market was in a period of softness, in particular downtown Manhattan. This was exacerbated by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to current market conditions in New York City, several competing residential condominium projects located in downtown Manhattan, specifically in the Financial District, have been put on hold. The status of unsold residential condominium units in 2022 and beyond is inherently uncertain. Closings on sales commenced in September 2021 and are ongoing. An inability to successfully execute our business plan with respect to 77 Greenwich would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents We are subject to leverage at both our parent company and our subsidiaries and face risks generally associated with our debt, including an increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in furtherance of our activities, at both the parent company level and subsidiary level, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that we may fail to repay or refinance existing debt as it matures, which may result in forced disposition of assets on disadvantageous terms or have other adverse consequences, and the risk that if we refinance any of our debt, we may do so on refinancing terms less favorable than the terms of our existing debt. All of our properties secure loans. The failure by our borrower subsidiaries to make scheduled repayments under the loan agreements, or the default of any of the obligations under the loans, would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the applicable subsidiary may be required to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the respective loan and the lenders may exercise other remedies available to them, including foreclosing on the respective property securing the loan. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements, for further discussion regarding our financing activities. Covenants in our loan agreements could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. Our loan agreements contain a number of financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on debt, liens, business activities, equity repurchases, distributions and dividends, disposition of assets and transactions with affiliates, as well as financial covenants regarding corporate loan to value, net worth and liquidity. These covenants may limit our flexibility to pursue certain acquisitions or investments or incur additional debt. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements and our indebtedness could be declared due and payable. In addition, our lenders could terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their interests against existing collateral. If we were to default under our loan agreements, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Investment returns from 77 Greenwich and other properties we may acquire and/or develop may be less than anticipated. Our development of 77 Greenwich and other properties we acquire and/or develop are exposed to risks, including the following: we may sell residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich and other acquired or developed properties at prices, and/or lease commercial and residential properties at current or future rents, that are less than the prices or rents projected at the time we decide to undertake the acquisition or development; the velocity of leasing at commercial and residential properties, and/or condominium sales at 77 Greenwich or future acquisition or development properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; and operating expenses and real estate taxes may be greater than projected at the time of acquisition or development, resulting in our investment being less profitable than we expected. 6 Table of Contents Our investment in property development for 77 Greenwich and other properties may be more costly than anticipated. We intend to continue to develop or redevelop our current and future properties. Our current and future development and construction activities, including with respect to 77 Greenwich, may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to proceed with the development of properties other than 77 Greenwich because we cannot obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all; we may incur construction costs for a development project that exceed our original estimates due to increases in interest rates, increased materials, labor, leasing or other costs, and increases in unforeseen costs such as those related to the supply chain disruption and COVID-19, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents or condominium unit sales prices, as applicable, may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project; we may abandon development opportunities after we begin to explore them and as a result we may lose deposits or fail to recover expenses already incurred; we may expend funds on and devote managements time to projects which we do not complete; we may be unable to complete construction and/or leasing of our rental properties and sales of our condominium projects (currently limited to 77 Greenwich) on schedule, or at all; and we may suspend development projects after construction has begun due to changes in economic conditions or other factors, and this may result in the write-off of costs, payment of additional costs or increases in overall costs when the development project is restarted. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in and owning leasable real estate in connection with our existing retail and residential properties and new properties or investments in leasable real estate. These risks include the ability to secure leases with new tenants, renew leases with existing tenants, the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove or certain upgrades that may be needed should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenants quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation, and potentially, as occurred at 237 11 th , damages arising from defective construction. The occurrence of any of these events, particularly with respect to leases at our commercial real estate property, or issues that affect numerous residential units, could adversely impact, and in the case of 237 11 th , has adversely impacted, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if our competitors offer space at net effective rental rates below our current net effective rental rates or market rates, we may lose current or potential tenants to other properties in our markets. Additionally, we may need to reduce net effective rental rates below our current rates or offer incentives in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their leases or to attract new tenants. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected as a result of these factors. We may be unable to lease vacant space, renew our current leases, or re-lease space as our current leases expire. Leases at our properties may not be renewed or such properties may not be re-leased at favorable rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, including vacant space resulting from the remediation of damaged units, tenant defaults or space that is currently unoccupied, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our financial condition, results of operations and 7 Table of Contents cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources that compete with us in seeking tenants who we desire to lease space in our properties. The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of the major tenants at our commercial real estate properties that causes them to reject their leases, or to not renew their leases as they expire, or renew at lower rental rates, may adversely affect our cash flows and property values. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, direct mail and telemarketing, which could reduce rents payable to us and reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties leading to increased vacancy rates at our properties. In addition, if we are unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. We may acquire properties subject to known and unknown liabilities and with limited or no recourse to the seller. Properties we acquire may be subject to known or unknown liabilities with no or minimal recourse to the seller. As a result, if a property is damaged, we may need to pay to have it repaired, and our ability to recover any such payments through insurance, indemnities, litigation or otherwise is uncertain. We have purchased one property subject to unknown construction defects due to water penetration in the walls, 237 11 th , and there can be no assurance that we will not do so again. During the pendency of repairs, units were unable to be leased, and following completion of repairs, they needed to be re-leased. Also, if a liability was asserted against us arising from our ownership of a property, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for repair of damaged properties or faulty construction; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination and/or repair or other remediation of construction defects. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our cash flow, even if some or all of the costs are ultimately borne by a third party, and the impact could be material. Multi-family residential properties may be subject to rent stabilization regulations, which limit our ability to raise rents above specified maximum amounts and could give rise to claims by tenants that their rents exceed such specified maximum amounts. The Rent Stabilization Law and Code imposes rent control or rent stabilization on certain apartment buildings. The rent stabilization regulations applicable to our multi-family residential properties set maximum rates for annual rent increases, entitle our tenants to receive required services from us and entitle our tenants to have their leases renewed. The limitations established by present or future rent stabilization regulations may impair our ability to maintain rents at market levels at properties subject to such regulations. Pursuant to the Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019, which is a set of New York State laws, vacancy lease increases were eliminated, whereby the landlord was permitted to increase the rent by as much as 20% for a tenant moving into a vacant apartment, to which significant increases in rent for New York City properties were historically attributed. With respect to certain types of properties in New York City, solely by virtue of the real estate tax exemption under RPTL Section 421-a, the Rent Guidelines Board of New York City, approves renewal lease rent increases. In 2021, the Rent Guidelines Board approved no increase for the first 6 months, a 1.5% increase for the remaining 6 months on 12-month lease renewals and a 2.5% increase on 24-month lease renewals. In 2020, the Rent Guidelines Board approved no increase 8 Table of Contents on 12-month lease renewals and no increase for the first year and a 1% increase for the second year of 24-month lease renewals. The application of rent stabilization to apartments in our multi-family residential properties will limit the amount of rent we are able to collect, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fully take advantage of the investments that we are making in our properties. In addition, there can be no assurances that changes to rent stabilization laws will not have a similar or greater negative impact on our ability to collect rents. There is a proposed New York State bill (Good Cause Eviction), which, if passed may impose restrictions on rent increases and the right not to renew market rate unit leases. If passed, there will be restrictions on an owners ability to grow market rents. Competition for new acquisitions and investments may reduce the number of opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions and investments. We face competition for acquisition and investment opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage. This competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, many of whom have greater resources than us, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for the acquisition of such property. If we are unable to successfully acquire or invest in additional properties, our ability to grow our business would be adversely affected. In addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks associated with acquisitions of and investments in new properties. We may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including potentially large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. Our acquisition and investment activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to finance acquisitions, investments and developments of properties, including with respect to raising capital to contribute as equity, on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to complete proposed acquisitions or other transactions due to an inability to meet required closing conditions; we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, opportunities which we do not complete, and which may include non-refundable deposits; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms as contemplated as part of our underwriting; properties that we acquire or in which we invest may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, investments and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to the risks associated with joint ventures. We formed joint ventures with third parties to acquire and operate The Berkley and the 250 North 10 th property, both located in Brooklyn, New York. We may become involved in additional joint ventures in the future with respect to current or future properties. Joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made or owned solely by us, including the possibility that our joint venture partner might become bankrupt, or may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture, activities conducted by a partner that have a negative impact on the joint venture or us, and disputes with our partner. The phasing out of LIBOR after 2021 may affect our financial results. The chief executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"), which regulates LIBOR, has announced that the FCA intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The U.S. Dollar Libor will continue to be published until 2023. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes or the establishment of alternative reference rates. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee ("ARRC"), a committee convened by the Federal Reserve that includes major market participants, and on which the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff and other regulators participate, has proposed an alternative rate, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), to replace U.S. Dollar LIBOR. Any changes announced by the FCA, ARRC, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which U.S. Dollar LIBOR, SOFR, or any other alternative rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported LIBOR rates. If that were to occur, the levels of interest payments we incur and interest payments we receive may change. It is also uncertain whether SOFR or any other alternative rate will gain market acceptance. In addition, although our LIBOR based obligations and investments provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate if LIBOR is not reported, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if LIBOR rate was available in its current form. We may also need to renegotiate our LIBOR based obligations, which we may not be successful in doing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. We may not receive or be able to maintain certain tax benefits if we are not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development. We may not receive or be able to maintain certain existing or anticipated tax benefits related to The Berkley, 237 11 th and 250 North 10 th properties if we are not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD). All of these properties currently benefit from a real estate tax exemption under New York Real Property Tax Law (the RPTL) Section 421-a, as a result of a specified percentage of the units in such buildings being designated as affordable rate units or market rate units and/or subject to rent stabilization guidelines, among other requirements. Section 421-a of the New York RPTL provides an exemption from real estate taxes on the amount of the assessed value of newly constructed improvements if certain requirements are met. A property cannot maintain or continue to receive Section 421-a tax benefits without HPDs determination that all Section 421-a eligibility requirements have and continue to be met. Although HPD has issued final Certificates of Eligibility with respect to the Section 421-a tax benefits for The Berkley, 237 11 th and 250 North 10 th properties and we are currently in compliance with all applicable Section 421-a requirements for such properties, there can be no assurance that compliance with the Section 421-a requirements for these properties will continue to be maintained. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program, as applicable to any of these properties, HPD may find that such property is ineligible to receive the tax exemption benefits related to the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to develop or redevelop our properties and enter into new leases with tenants will depend on our obtaining certain permits, site plan approvals and other governmental approvals from local municipalities, which we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. In order to develop or redevelop our properties, we will be required to obtain certain permits, site plan approvals or other governmental approvals from local municipalities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits or approvals on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from developing or redeveloping our properties according to our business plan. Additionally, potential acquirers or tenants may also need to obtain certain permits or approvals in order to utilize our properties in the manner they intend to do so. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Our inability to obtain permits and approvals to develop or redevelop our properties, or the inability of potential purchasers and tenants of our properties to obtain necessary permits and approvals, could severely and adversely affect our business. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The ADA generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These rules are subject to interpretation and change. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our operating properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified and experienced management and other personnel, including in particular our President and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Messinger. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract qualified management and other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future tax payments may be limited as a result of future transactions. We had approximately $247.5 million of federal NOLs as of December 31, 2021. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), limits the ability of a company to utilize its NOLs after an ownership change. For purposes of Section 382, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the stock of the company owned by persons holding 5% or more of the stock increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three year lookback period. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on our use of NOLs is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change. If we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize our NOLs would be subject to significant limitations. In addition, the 2017 tax legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) limited the deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year, and eliminated the ability of taxpayers to carryback such NOLs to prior years. These limitations were modified by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, signed into law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act suspended the 80% limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021, and allowed losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2021 to be carried back up to five years. Political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to outbreaks of contagious diseases, including COVID-19, could have an adverse effect on us. We cannot predict how current and future political and economic uncertainty, including uncertainty related to taxation and increases in interest rates, will affect our critical tenants, joint venture partners, lenders, financial institutions and general economic conditions, including consumer confidence and the volatility of the stock market and real estate market. In addition, we cannot predict the continued impact of COVID-19 or the potential outbreak of other contagious diseases in the future. These issues may cause consumers to postpone discretionary spending in response to tighter credit, reduced consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, resulting in a downturn in the business of our tenants and an impact on potential purchases of our residential condominium units. In the event political and economic uncertainty results in financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Each of these could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. We also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. Our common stock, currently listed on the NYSE American, is thinly traded. We cannot assure stockholders that an active market for our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or, if developed, that it will be sustained. In addition, we may determine the benefits of listing our shares on the NYSE American do not merit the associated costs. As a result of these factors, stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock. Because our common stock is thinly traded, even small trades can have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, as was the case in 2018 through 2021 when our stock price decreased significantly on low volume. For instance, our stock price has ranged from a high of $7.45 per share in May 2018, to a low of $1.11 per share in April 2020 even though we believe we have executed our business plan and significantly de-risked our development of 77 Greenwich. Volatility in the market price of our common stock and lack of liquidity may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for such shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: changes in the real estate markets in which we operate, especially New York City; our ability to develop or redevelop or successfully sell units in 77 Greenwich or at other properties in the future; our ability to identify new acquisition and investment opportunities and/or close on those acquisitions or investments; the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock including at prices that are below the then-current trading price of our common stock; volatility in global and/or U.S. equities markets; our financial results or those of other companies in our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; changes in generally accepted accounting principles, policies, guidance, or interpretations; and other factors described in our filings with the SEC, including among others in connection with the risks noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, until our common stock is more widely held and actively traded, small sales or purchases may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate dramatically up or down without regard to our financial health or business prospects. Downward fluctuations can impair, and have impaired, our ability to raise equity capital on acceptable terms. Stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests upon the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock. We may issue additional equity securities in capital raising transactions or otherwise, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 120,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 79,999,997 shares of common stock, two shares of a class of preferred stock (which were redeemed in accordance with their terms and may not be reissued), one share of a class of special stock and 40,000,000 13 Table of Contents shares of blank check preferred stock. Outstanding as of December 31, 2021 were 36,626,549 shares of our common stock, one share of special stock, and warrants to purchase 7,179,000 shares of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. Any future issuance of our equity or equity-linked securities may dilute then-current stockholders ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants, as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions and investments, development, redevelopment and repositioning of assets, or for other business purposes. Our board of directors may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common stock without stockholder approval, unless the approval of our common stockholders is required by applicable law, rule or regulation, including NYSE American regulations, or our certificate of incorporation. The terms of preferred or other equity or equity-linked securities we may issue in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, anti-dilution protection, pre-emptive rights, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, among other terms, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our outstanding warrants also contain these types of provisions. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price or have conversion or exercise prices below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. A decline in the price of our common stock, including as a result of a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. A decline in the price of our common stock, whether as a result of market conditions, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate, which would impair our ability to raise capital. Capital-raising transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restrictions on resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock could fall. A significant amount of restricted shares previously issued by us have been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the SEC. More than 50% of our shares of common stock are currently controlled by four of our stockholders who may have the ability to influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. More than 50% of our shares of common stock are controlled by four of our stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders for a vote. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. The holder of our special stock and one of our lenders each have the right to appoint a member to our board of directors and, consequently, the ability to exert influence over us. In connection with the investment in us by Third Avenue Trust, on behalf of Third Avenue Real Estate Value Fund (Third Avenue), Third Avenue was issued one share of a class of special stock and our certificate of incorporation was amended to provide that, subject to the other terms and conditions of our certificate of incorporation, from the issuance of the one share of special stock and until the Special Stock Ownership Threshold of 2,345,000 shares of common stock is no longer satisfied, Third Avenue has the right to elect one director to the board of directors. In addition, pursuant to the terms 14 Table of Contents of the credit agreement and letter agreement we entered into in December 2019, as amended, with the lender under our Corporate Credit Facility (the CCF Lender), the CCF Lender has the right to elect one director to the board of directors, or, at the election of the CCF Lender, a board observer, so long as certain conditions are met as described in more detail in Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit and Note 11 Stockholders Equity. As a result, for so long as these board appointment rights are in effect, Third Avenue and the CCF Lender may be able to exert influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our best interests or the best interests of the other stockholders. In order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation includes certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOLs and certain other tax attributes for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, our certificate of incorporation contains certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of our common stock and may have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our stock generally. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be devoted to our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and such other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investors investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. In addition to the matters identified in the risk factors above relating to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, these provisions include: a classified board of directors with two-year staggered terms; limitations in our certificate of incorporation on acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock designed to protect our NOLs and certain other tax attributes; and authorization for blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock and result in the market price of the common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain actions or proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to make a claim against the Company, our directors, officers, and employees. The Companys certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on the Companys behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against the Company arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Companys certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against the Company that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This provision is not intended to apply to claims arising under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. To the extent the provision could be construed to apply to such claims, there is uncertainty as to whether a 15 Table of Contents court would enforce the provision in such respect, and the Companys stockholders will not be deemed to have waived the Companys compliance with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The exclusive forum provision may discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to submit claims in a judicial forum that they find favorable and may create additional costs as a result. If a court were to determine the exclusive forum provision to be inapplicable and unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs in conjunction with our efforts to resolve the dispute in an alternative jurisdiction, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Because we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, non-U.S. holders of our common stock could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from its sale, exchange or other disposition. Because we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, which we refer to as "USRPHC," under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 and applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, which we refer to collectively as the "FIRPTA Rules," unless an exception applies, certain non-U.S. investors in our common stock could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of shares of our common stock, and such non-U.S. investors could be required to file a United States federal income tax return. In addition, the purchaser of such common stock may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase price and remit such amount to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. Under the FIRPTA Rules, we are a USRPHC because our interests in U.S. real property comprise at least 50% of the fair market value of our assets. Our common stock trades on the NYSE American. So long as it continues to do so, and is regularly quoted by brokers or dealers making a market in our common stock, our common stock will be treated as "regularly traded on an established securities market" (within the meaning of the FIRPTA Rules). As a result, (i) a non-U.S. investor who, actually or constructively, holds no more than 5% of our common stock would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock under the FIRPTA Rules, and (ii) a purchaser of such stock from a non-U.S. investor would not be required to withhold any portion of the purchase price of such stock, regardless of the percentage of our common stock held by such non-U.S. investor. Any of our common stockholders that are non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisors to determine the consequences of investing in our common stock. Forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES Below is certain information regarding our real estate properties as of December 31, 2021: Building Size (estimated Leased at rentable Number of December 31, Property Location Type of Property square feet) Units 2021 Owned Locations 77 Greenwich, New York, New York (1) Property under development N/A Paramus, New Jersey (2) Property under development 77,000 100.0 % 237 11 th Street, Brooklyn, New York (3) Multi-family 80,000 105 97.1 % Total 157,000 105 Joint Ventures 223 North 8 th Street, Brooklyn, New York - 50% (4) Multi-family 65,000 95 100.0 % 250 North 10 th Street, Brooklyn, New York - 10% (5) Multi-family 158,000 234 96.6 % Total 223,000 329 Grand Total 380,000 434 (1) 77 Greenwich. We are nearing completion of the development stage for the development of an over 300,000 gross square foot mixed-use building that corresponds to the approximate total of 233,000 zoning square feet. The property consists of 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, 7,500 square feet of retail space, almost all of which is street level, a 476-seat elementary school serving New York City District 2, including the adaptive reuse of the landmarked Robert and Anne Dickey House, and construction of a new handicapped accessible subway entrance on Trinity Place. In early April 2020, New York State required all non-essential construction projects be shut down due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, the construction of 77 Greenwich was temporarily suspended. Construction recommenced mid-April, initially on a modified basis, as certain work was deemed essential construction. Since June 2020, a full crew has been on site and operating in accordance with applicable guidelines in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. As of December 31, 2021, all finishes were complete through the 34th floor and the 35 th floor was prepped for wood flooring. As of March 2, 2022 we have received our temporary certificates of occupancy (TCOs) for floors 11-36, the lobby, mechanical rooms and portions of the cellar and anticipate receiving TCOs for the balance of the development through completion of the project. We have also completed the build-out and furnishing of the model units and moved the sales gallery to the building. The attorney generals office approved our condominium offering plan in April 2019. Marketing of residential units for sale commenced during the spring 2019 and we have closed on 17 residential condominium units through March 31, 2022. Closings are ongoing and residents have begun to move into their respective units. Although sales activity has begun to increase from 2020 levels, through December 31, 2021 sales activity was adversely impacted by the pandemic and the local New York City economy. In December 2017, we closed on a $189.5 million construction facility. The facility had a balance of $157.0 million at the time it was repaid in full as part of the Companys October 2021 refinancing transaction with Macquarie PF Inc. pursuant to which we were extended credit in the amount of up to $166.7 million. We borrowed $133.1 million on the closing date of the 77 Mortgage Loan (defined below) and the balance of the funds used to repay the facility were obtained from an increase in the Mezzanine Loan, the Berkley Partner Loan as well as funds raised through the Private Placement. The $33.6 million remaining availability on the 77 Mortgage Loan will be used to, among other things, complete construction of 77 Greenwich and fund carry costs while the residential condominium units are being sold. The 77 Mortgage Loan had a balance of $125.4 million at December 31, 2021. 17 Table of Contents Prior to the COVID-19 related shutdown of all non-essential construction by New York State in early April 2020, the residential condominium units were scheduled to be completed by the end of 2020. Future delays in construction may result in a delay in our ability to complete the construction project on its anticipated timeline and our ability to sell residential condominium units. We entered into an agreement with the New York City School Construction Authority (the SCA), whereby we agreed to construct a school to be sold to the SCA as part of our condominium development at 77 Greenwich. Pursuant to the agreement, the SCA agreed to pay us $41.5 million for the purchase of their condominium unit and reimburse us for the costs associated with constructing the school, including a construction supervision fee of approximately $5.0 million. Payments for construction are being made by the SCA to the general contractor in installments as construction on their condominium unit progresses. Payments to us for the land and construction supervision fee commenced in January 2018 and continued through October 2019 for the land and will continue through completion of the SCA buildout for the construction supervision fee. An aggregate of $46.1 million had been paid to us by the SCA as of December 31, 2021 with approximately $450,000 remaining to be paid. We have also received an aggregate of $50.6 million in reimbursable construction costs from the SCA through December 31, 2021. The SCA closed on the purchase of the school condominium unit from us in April 2020, at which point title transferred to the SCA, and the SCA is now proceeding to complete the buildout of the interior space, which is planned to become an approximately 476 seat public elementary school. The pace of completion of the buildout by the SCA has been impacted by COVID-19 and the school is currently anticipated to open in September 2022. Upon conveyance, we recognized a gain on the sale of approximately $20.0 million and an additional gain of $4.2 million related to the recognition of our deferred construction supervision fee. (2) Paramus Property. The Paramus property consists of a one-story and partial two-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet, for approximately 77,000 total square feet of rentable space. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building is leased to Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: RH) pursuant to a license agreement that began on June 1, 2016, which is terminable upon three months notice, and currently is scheduled to end on March 31, 2023. The outparcel building is leased to a long-term tenant whose lease expires on March 31, 2023. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected 100% of rent due. We are currently exploring options with respect to the Paramus property, including development or sale, among others. (3) 237 11 th Street. In May 2018, we closed on the acquisition of a recently built 105-unit, 12-story multi-family apartment building encompassing approximately 93,000 gross square feet (approximately 80,000 rentable square feet) located at 237 11 th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, New York for a purchase price of $81.2 million, excluding transaction costs of approximately $0.7 million. The property also includes 6,264 square feet of retail space, all of which is leased to Starbucks Inc. (NQGS:SBUX), an oral surgeon and a health and wellness tenant. Located on the border of the Park Slope and Gowanus neighborhoods of Brooklyn, the property is located one block from the 4th Avenue/9th Street subway station. The 237 11 th property offers an array of modern amenities that surpass what is available in the neighborhoods brownstone housing stock. The property also benefits from a 15-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Due to certain construction defects at 237 11 th that resulted in water penetration into the building and damage to certain apartment units and other property, which defects we believe were concealed and which would have required significant invasive work of a type not usually required or permitted, especially on a newly-built asset, to be detected, we submitted proofs of loss to our insurance carrier for property damage and business interruption (lost revenue) in March 2019. The insurance carrier subsequently disclaimed coverage for the losses and we filed a complaint against the carrier alleging that it breached the insurance policy by denying coverage. We also filed legal claims against the seller, its parent company, and the general contractor to recover damages arising from the defective construction. In addition, the general contractor impleaded into that litigation several subcontractors who performed work on the property. Management expects to recover some portion of the cost incurred to repair the property through the litigations and/or settlement negotiations with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, the subcontractors, and the insurance carrier, although the amount of damages that may be recoverable in litigation and/or potential 18 Table of Contents settlement negotiations are uncertain at this time, as is the timing of receipt of any such payments, which has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting backlog in the court system and slowdown in judicial proceedings. We have engaged in mediation with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, and the third-party defendants impleaded by the general contractor to explore the possibility of settling the case involving those parties, but to date, have not reached an agreement. We incurred significant cash outflows for costs associated with these repairs and remediation, which commenced in September 2019. As of December 31, 2021, remediation work was complete and the property was 97.1% leased. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 100% of rent due. (4) 223 North 8 th Street. Through a joint venture, we own a 50% interest in the entity formed to acquire and operate The Berkley, a recently built 95-unit multi-family property encompassing approximately 99,000 gross square feet (65,000 rentable square feet) at 223 North 8 th Street in North Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. The Berkley is in close proximity to public transportation and offers a full amenity package. Apartments feature top-of-the-line unit finishes, central air conditioning and heating and most units have private outdoor space. The property benefits from a 25-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. During the year ended December 31, 2021, The Berkley collected 100% of rent due. In March 2022, our joint venture with Pacolet Milliken entered into a contract to sell the Berkley for $71,020,000. The closing, which is subject to usual closing conditions as well as approval from the Department of Housing Preservation and Development of the assignment of the regulatory agreement, is scheduled to occur in April 2022. (5) 250 North 10 th Street. Through a joint venture, we own a 10% interest in the entity formed to acquire and operate 250 North 10 th Street, a recently built 234-unit apartment building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. The property is four blocks from the Bedford Avenue L subway station and a short walk from the Metropolitan Avenue G subway station as well as the J, M, and Z trains at Marcy Avenue. It is located one block from The Berkley. Apartments feature top-of-the-line unit finishes including GE stainless steel appliances, caesarstone countertops, in-unit washers and dryers, individually zoned climate controls, floor to ceiling windows and oak hardwood floors. In addition, the property offers a full amenity package including a concierge, a residents lounge with roof deck, a fitness center, a caf lounge and an expansive terrace, tenant storage, parking, and sweeping views of the neighborhood and Manhattan. The property has approximately six years remaining on its 15-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Although all apartments are market rate units, they are subject to New York Citys rent stabilization law during the remaining term of the Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. During the year ended December 31, 2021, 250 North 10 th Street collected approximately 95.5% of rent due. Lease Expirations As of December 31, 2021, we have one retail lease at our Paramus property with 4,000 square feet of leased space with annualized rent of $140,000 per year that expires in 2023, a retail lease at the 237 11 th property with 2,006 square feet of leased space with annualized rent of $130,000 per year that expires in 2027, a second retail lease at the 237 11 th property with 1,074 square feet of leased space with average annualized rent of $94,506 per year that expires in 2036, a third retail lease at the 237 11 th property with 2,208 square feet of leased space with average annualized rent of $153,366 per year that expires in 2032, and a retail lease at 77 Greenwich with 1,061 square feet of leased space with an average annualized rent of $88,085 per year that expires in 2032. All our other leases are residential leases which expire within twelve or twenty-four months of the commencement date. Corporate Headquarters We lease our corporate headquarters in New York, New York (approximately 6,271 square feet). The lease expires in March 2025. 19 Table of Contents Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the normal course of business, we are party to routine legal proceedings. Based on advice of counsel and available information, including current status or stage of proceedings, and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from litigation we are currently involved in will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NYSE American. The trading symbol of our common stock is TPHS. Outstanding Common Stock and Holders As of March 31, 2022, we had 43,387,563 shares issued and 36,836,146 shares outstanding and there were approximately 138 record holders of our common stock. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion related to our consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A detailed discussion of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 is not included herein and can be found in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section in the 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2021. Overview We are a real estate holding, investment, development and asset management company. Our largest asset is currently 77 Greenwich Street in Lower Manhattan (77 Greenwich), which is nearing completion of development as a mixed-use project consisting of a 90-unit residential condominium tower, retail space and a New York City elementary school. We also own a recently built 105-unit, 12-story multi-family property located at 237 11 th Street in Brooklyn, New York (237 11 th ), and, through joint ventures, a 50% interest in a recently built 95-unit multi-family property known as The Berkley, located at 223 North 8 th Street, Brooklyn, New York (The Berkley) which is under contract for sale, and a 10% interest in a recently built 234-unit multi-family property located one block from The Berkley at 250 North 10 th Street (250 North 10 th ). In addition we own a property occupied by retail tenants in Paramus, New Jersey. See Item 2. Properties above for a more detailed description of our properties. In addition to our real estate portfolio, we also control a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, a legacy of our predecessor, Syms Corp. (Syms). We also had approximately $247.5 million of federal net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) at December 31, 2021, which can be used to reduce our future taxable income and capital gains. We continue to evaluate new investment opportunities, with a focus on newly constructed multi-family properties in New York City as well as properties in close proximity to public transportation in the greater New York metropolitan area. We consider investment opportunities involving other types of properties and real estate related assets, as well as repurchases of our common stock, taking into account our cash position, liquidity requirements, and our ability to raise capital to finance our growth. In addition, we may selectively consider potential acquisition, development and fee-based opportunities, as well as disposition, sale or consolidation opportunities. Impact of COVID-19 Our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19 and resulting restrictions and such impact could continue to be material. The extent of the impact going forward will largely depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be 21 Table of Contents predicted, including the severity and duration of the outbreak, in New York City in particular, the success of actions taken to contain or treat COVID-19, actions taken by governmental entities, companies and individuals in response to the pandemic and reactions to such actions, the impact on local and broader economic activity and capital markets from the COVID-19 pandemic and new information that emerges with respect to the foregoing and other aspects of COVID-19. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact the Companys business, operations and financial results in the future will depend on numerous evolving factors that the Company is not able to predict at this time, including, but not limited to, the impact on sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich, which has been material, and the impact on the timing for construction of 77 Greenwich; the impact on the timing of the 237 11 th litigation due to backlog in the New York City court system and the slowdown in judicial proceedings, and the receipt of any payments we may receive in connection with the litigation; increased operating costs related to cleaning and disinfecting our properties; the effect of the pandemic on our tenants and their ability to make rental payments; the impact of decisions of the NYC Rent Guidelines Board on our ability to raise rents; our ability to raise capital in the form of equity, debt, asset sales or otherwise on acceptable terms or at all and our ability to enter into strategic or other transactions. These developments and events have and will continue to adversely impact the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price, which has been and is anticipated to continue to be material, although in recent months we have seen indications of a recovery in the New York City real estate market and improvements in the financing markets, including our ability to successfully refinance our 237 11 th mortgage loan in June 2021 and our 77 Greenwich construction facility in October 2021. See Note 1 Business to our consolidated financial statements and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Vacancy rates for multi-family properties across all boroughs of New York City increased since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the largest increases in Manhattan. The work from home phenomenon resulted in significant number of people moving out of urban areas to suburban areas. This drove a drop in rental rates and an increase in concessions resulting in lower net effective rents, primarily on new leases. In recent months, with the implementation of COVID-19 vaccination programs and companies encouraging employees to return to the office, more potential tenants are moving back into New York City, which has resulted in an increase in face rents and a reduction in concessions. New York State imposed a moratorium on tenant evictions in March 2020 which has been extended several times, and was in place until January 15, 2022. Rent collections at our properties have been strong and in line with pre-pandemic collection rates. Notwithstanding these broader market trends, signs of distress, including discounted sales prices and debt workouts, in the New York City investment market have been almost non-existent over the past year. Multi-family property sales transaction volumes increased in 2021 compared to 2020 and properties are being sold at record prices. Transactions, Development and Other Activities During 2021 Continued Progress in Development of 77 Greenwich As of December 31, 2021, all residential unit finishes were complete through the 34th floor and the 35 th floor was prepped for wood flooring. We have received our TCOs for floors 11-30 and 32-34, the lobby, mechanical rooms and portions of the cellar and anticipate receiving TCOs for the balance of the development through completion of the project. The project was approximately 92% complete at December 31, 2021. Other Activities In June 2021, we refinanced the senior loan on 237 11 th with a $60.0 million loan from a new lender. Remediation work was completed as of December 31, 2021 and the property was 97.1% leased. We also signed a lease for the remaining retail space such that the retail space was 100% leased as of December 31, 2021. See Item 2. Properties above for additional information. In October 2021, we closed on a new $166.7 million inventory loan for 77 Greenwich and repaid the more expensive construction loan. The new loan has no sales pace or financial covenants for the first 18 months. Simultaneous with the closing of the inventory loan in October 2021, we closed on an increase of $22.0 million to our 77 Greenwich mezzanine loan with an affiliate of the lender under our Corporate Credit Facility and amended that facility. 22 Table of Contents In October 2021, we completed a private placement and raised approximately $4.8 million. In December 2021, we completed a rights offering and raised approximately $1.7 million. As of December 31, 2021, we had closed on the sale of 14 residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich, at an aggregate gross sales price of $24.8 million, and as of March 31, 2022 we had closed on three additional residential condominium units at an aggregate gross sales price of $6.3 million. Other units are under contract that are expected to close in the coming months, as they are completed and TCOs are received, allowing for their occupancy. Units that closed during 2021were generally lower priced, smaller units on the buildings lower floors, many of which entered into contract during the height of the pandemic. These units were completed first and were covered by the initial TCOs. Getting these units under contract allowed us to obtain approval from the New York State Attorney General and therefore start the closing process on residential units. All proceeds from the sales of residential condominiums are applied first to repayment of our 77 Greenwich Mortgage Loan (as defined below) until it has been repaid in full. Results of Operations Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Rental revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million to $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. This consisted of an increase in rent revenues of approximately $1.6 million to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $911,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020, partially offset by a decrease in tenant reimbursements of approximately $26,000 to $56,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $82,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in total revenues and its related components was due to higher occupancy, higher face rents and less rent concessions at 237 11 th during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the progress made in remediating the construction related defects. Other income increased by approximately $92,000 to $355,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $263,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 which consisted mainly of the forgiveness of our PPP Loan of $243,000 during the year ended December 31, 2021, partially offset by lower SCA construction supervision fees we recognized during the year ended December 31, 2021 in accordance with the revenue recognition policies effective after the closing on the sale of the school condominium to the SCA in April 2020. In connection with the commencement of sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich for the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded gross sales proceeds of approximately $24.8 million. Units that closed during 2021were generally lower priced, smaller units on the buildings lower floors, many of which entered into contract during the height of the pandemic. These units were completed first and were covered by the initial TCOs. Getting these units under contract allowed us to obtain approval from the New York State Attorney General and therefore start the closing process on residential units. Property operating expenses decreased by approximately $757,000 to $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease was principally due to reduced expenses associated with 237 11 th , including approximately $3.7 million in lower costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 to repair the construction related defects and $220,000 less in other operating expenses. These reductions were partially offset by increases of $220,000 in leasing commissions incurred as more apartment units at 237 11 th were leased as they became fully remediated, as well as increases in general advertising and marketing expenses of $2.9 million related to the sale of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich, $2.4 million of which was an out-of-period adjustment from prior years. Property operating expenses consisted primarily of expenses incurred for utilities, payroll, COVID-19 related supplies and general operating expenses as well as repairs and maintenance and leasing commission at 237 11 th as well as general advertising and marketing expenses. Real estate tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 of $74,000 remained consistent with the year ended December 31, 2020 at $79,000. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $463,000 to $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately $422,000 related to stock-based compensation, $2.4 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.1 million related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $597,000 related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately $708,000 related to stock-based compensation, $2.5 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $980,000 related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $788,000 related to legal, accounting and other professional fees which included approximately $200,000 of legal fees to resolve a legacy Syms claim related to the multiemployer pension plan. Pension related costs decreased by approximately $278,000 to $67,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $345,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. These costs represent professional fees and other periodic pension costs incurred in connection with the legacy Syms Pension Plan. See Note 8 Pension Plan to our consolidated financial statements for further information. In connection with the commencement of sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich for the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded cost of sales of approximately $24.4 million, which consists of construction and capitalized operating costs that are allocated to the respective condominium units being sold. Transaction related costs decreased by approximately $128,000 to $5,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $133,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. These costs represent professional fees and other costs incurred in connection with the underwriting and evaluation of potential acquisitions and investments for transactions that were not consummated, as well as costs for potential leases at our retail properties that were not consummated. Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased modestly by approximately $96,000 to $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for 237 11 th of approximately $1.7 million and the amortization of lease commissions, acquired in-place leases and warrants of approximately $1.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2020, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for 237 11 th of approximately $1.7 million and the amortization lease commissions, acquired in-place leases and warrants of approximately $1.1 million. The slight increase in depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to amortization of warrants. Gain on sale of condominium of $24.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 consists of the sale of the school condominium to the SCA of $20.0 million and an additional gain of $4.2 million related to the recognition of our construction supervision fee. This gain was recorded upon the closing on the sale of the school condominium to the SCA in April 2020. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures decreased by approximately $1.0 million to $555,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures represents our 50% share in The Berkley and our 10% share in 250 North 10 th . For the year ended December 31, 2021, our share of the loss is primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $1.7 million offset by depreciation and amortization of $1.5 million, interest expense of $745,000 and the change in the fair market value of the interest rate swap of $77,000. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our share of the loss was primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $1.8 million offset by depreciation and amortization of $2.6 million and interest expense of $800,000. Unrealized gain on warrants decreased by approximately $892,000 to $73,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 from a $965,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. This represents the change in the fair market valuation of the warrants due mainly to the change in our stock price on the measurement date. Interest expense, net increased by approximately $1.6 million to $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, there was approximately $21.2 million of gross interest expense incurred, $18.2 million of which was capitalized into real estate under development, 24 Table of Contents and $2,000 of interest income. For the year ended December 31, 2020, there was approximately $17.2 million of gross interest expense incurred, $15.7 million of which was capitalized, and $57,000 of interest income. The increase in gross interest expense was due to the larger and growing borrowings outstanding on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility during the period, which was refinanced in October 2021, as well as new borrowings under the 77 Mortgage Loan, Corporate Credit Facility, Mezzanine Loan and secured line of credit as described in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. Interest expense - amortization of deferred costs increased approximately $932,000 to $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $202,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was principally due to deferred finance costs of $567,000 that were expensed in June 2021 due to the refinancing of the 237 11 th Loan, as well as the amortization of finance costs for our loans and secured line of credit that were not capitalized as part of real estate under development. We recorded $265,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $306,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2020. Net loss attributable to common stockholders increased by approximately $23.0 million to $16.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from net income of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as a result of the changes discussed above, principally due to the gain on sale of the school condominium to the SCA in April 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources COVID-19 Pandemic, Managements Plans and Liquidity The COVID-19 pandemic and related matters, including government actions, shifts in residential consumer sentiment and changes to the broader and local economies, have had a significant adverse impact on our business. While we believe many of these trends will reverse and the New York City economy and residential real estate markets will continue the improvement seen to date in 2022, given our focus on New York City residential real estate, our business has been particularly impacted, and may continue to be, as described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although the impact of the pandemic has impeded the sale of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich, the pace of signing contracts has increased in 2021, and we closed on 14 residential condominium units in 2021 and have closed on three additional residential condominium units as of March 31, 2022, and residents are moving into their respective units. Units sold during 2021 were smaller, lower floor units that went under contract and closed during the height of the pandemic. These units were completed first and were covered by the initial TCOs obtained. Getting these units under contract allowed us to obtain AG approval of our condominium plan and start closing on residential unit sales. However, we have a limited amount of unrestricted cash and liquidity available for working capital and our cash needs are variable under different circumstances. Although there are no assurances that any transactions will be completed on acceptable terms or at all, we are currently exploring pursuing a variety of capital raising and other transactions, including the sale of certain assets or interests in assets, capital raises through equity offerings, including our ATM Program, debt borrowings, refinancings, including refinancing the Paramus line of credit and property at 237 11 th , and/or strategic transactions, in each case, with the goal of maximizing the value of the assets and attributes of the Company while balancing short-term liquidity constraints. In addition, The Berkley is under contract for sale for a price of $71,020,000, which is currently anticipated to close in April 2022. We currently expect that our principal sources of funds to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements for working capital and funds for acquisition and development or redevelopment of properties, tenant improvements, leasing costs, and repayments of outstanding indebtedness will include some or all of the following: (1) cash on hand; (2) proceeds from new debt financings, increases to existing debt financings and/or other forms of secured or unsecured debt financing; (3) proceeds from equity or equity-linked offerings, including rights offerings or convertible debt or equity or equity-linked securities issued in connection with debt financings; (4) cash flow from operations; and 25 Table of Contents (5) net proceeds from divestitures of properties or interests in properties, including the sale of The Berkley by our joint venture. Cash flow from operations is primarily dependent upon the occupancy level of our portfolio, the net effective rental rates achieved on our leases, the collectability of rent, operating escalations and recoveries from our tenants and the level of operating and other costs. As of December 31, 2021, we had total cash and restricted cash of $24.8 million, of which approximately $4.3 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $20.5 million was restricted cash. As of December 31, 2020, we had total cash and restricted cash of $16.1 million, of which approximately $6.5 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $9.6 million was restricted cash. Restricted cash represents amounts required to be restricted under our loan agreements, letters of credit (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further information), deposits on residential condominium sales at 77 Greenwich and tenant related security deposits. At this time, we believe our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with proceeds that may be raised from the sale of The Berkley, which is under contract, subject to usual closing conditions and currently anticipated to close in April 2022, planned refinancing of the Paramus line of credit, or sale of the Paramus property and sales of the larger, higher floor condominium units at 77 Greenwich will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs and projected capital and other expenditures associated with our operations over the next 12 months, and the Company has concluded that managements current plan alleviates the substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Additionally, we continue to evaluate opportunities to raise capital through sales of equity, including under our ATM program, debt issuances or refinancings, including refinancing the property located at 237 11 th Street, and continue to evaluate dispositions of other properties or other assets and/or sales of partial interests in properties. Facts and circumstances could change in the future that are outside of managements control, such as additional government mandates, health official orders, travel restrictions and extended business shutdowns due to COVID-19, and the impact of such matters on residential sentiment in New York City in particular. Corporate Credit Facility In December 2019, we entered into a credit agreement (the Corporate Credit Facility or CCF) with an affiliate of a global institutional investment management firm as initial lender (the CCF Lender) and Trimont Real Estate Advisors, LLC, as administrative agent (the Corporate Facility Administrative Agent), pursuant to which the CCF Lender agreed to extend us credit in multiple draws aggregating $70.0 million, which provided for an increase by $25.0 million subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and the consent of the CCF Lender. Draws under the Corporate Credit Facility were originally permitted to be made during the 32-month period following the closing date of the CCF (the Closing Date). The CCF matures on December 19, 2024, subject to extensions until December 19, 2025 and June 19, 2026, respectively, under certain circumstances. The CCF provided for the proceeds of the Corporate Credit Facility to be used for investments in certain multi-family apartment buildings in the greater New York City area and certain non-residential real estate investments approved by the CCF Lender in its reasonable discretion, as well as in connection with certain property recapitalizations and in specified amounts for general corporate purposes and working capital. The CCF bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) 5.25% and (ii) a scheduled interest rate (the Cash Pay Interest Rate) based on six-month periods from the Closing Date, which Cash Pay Interest Rate, from the Closing Date until the six-month anniversary of the Closing Date initially equaled 4.0% and increases by 125 basis points in each succeeding six-month period, subject to increase during the extension periods. A $2.45 million commitment fee was payable 50% on the initial draw and 50% as amounts under the CCF are drawn, with any remaining balance due on the last date of the draw period, and a 1.0% exit fee is payable in respect of CCF repayments. As of December 31, 2021, we had paid $1.85 million of the commitment fee. The CCF may be prepaid at any time subject to a prepayment premium on the portion of the CCF being repaid. At December 31, 2021, the Corporate Credit Facility had an outstanding balance of $35.75 million, excluding deferred finance fees of $2.9 million, and an effective interest rate of 9.63%. Accrued interest totaled approximately $3.8 million at December 31, 2021, which included approximately $413,000 of interest that was paid the first week of January 2022. See Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 26 Table of Contents In connection with the December 2020 transaction noted below, the Company entered into an amendment to the Corporate Credit Facility (the Corporate Facility Amendment) pursuant to which, among other things, (i) the CCF Lender and the Corporate Facility Administrative Agent permitted the Company to enter into the Mezzanine Loan Agreement (as defined below), the amendment to the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and related documents, (ii) the commitment made by the CCF Lender under the Corporate Credit Facility was reduced by the amount of the Mezzanine Loan (as defined below) from $70.0 million to $62.5 million, subject to increase by $25.0 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions and the consent of the CCF Lender, and (iii) the multiple on invested capital, or MOIC, amount that would be due and payable by the Company upon the final repayment of the loan pursuant to the Corporate Credit Facility if no event of default exists and is continuing under the Corporate Credit Facility at any time prior to December 22, 2022, was amended to combine the Corporate Credit Facility and the Mezzanine Loan for purposes of calculating the MOIC, to the extent not previously paid, if any. See Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In connection with the closing of the 77 Mortgage Loan and amendment to the Mezzanine Loan described below, we entered into amendments, dated as of October 22, 2021 and November 10, 2021, to our CCF pursuant to which, among other things, the parties agreed that no additional funds will be drawn under the CCF, the minimum liquidity requirement was made consistent with the 77 Mortgage Loan Agreement until May 1, 2023 and the MOIC provisions were revised to provide that (i) the MOIC amount due upon final repayment of the CCF loan was amended to be consistent with the Mezzanine Loan such that if no event of default exists and is continuing under the CCF at any time prior to June 22, 2023, the amount due will be combined with the Mezzanine Loan, to the extent not previously paid, if any, and (ii) the amount of the CCF used to calculate the MOIC was reduced to $35.75 million. In connection with the Corporate Credit Facility, we also entered into a warrant agreement with the CCF Lender pursuant to which we issued to the CCF Lender ten-year warrants (the Warrants) to purchase up to 7,179,000 shares of our common stock. In connection with the Corporate Facility Amendment, the exercise price of the Warrants was amended from $6.50 per share to $4.31 per share, payable in cash or pursuant to a cashless exercise. See Note 11 Stockholders Equity Warrants to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the warrants. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all covenants of the CCF. 77 Greenwich Construction Facility In December 2017, we closed on a $189.5 million construction facility for 77 Greenwich (the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility). We drew down proceeds as costs related to the construction of the new mixed-use building were incurred. There was an outstanding balance of approximately $159.4 million on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility at September 30, 2021. See Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. As a result of the refinancing transaction in October 2021, the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility was repaid in full. 77 Mortgage Loan In October 2021, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours (the Mortgage Borrower) entered into a loan agreement with Macquarie PF Inc., a part of Macquarie Capital, the advisory, capital markets and principal investment arm of Macquarie Group, as lender and administrative agent (the 77 Mortgage Lender), pursuant to which 77 Mortgage Lender agreed to extend credit to Mortgage Borrower in the amount of up to $166.7 million (the 77 Mortgage Loan), subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions (the 77 Mortgage Loan Agreement). The 77 Greenwich Construction Facility had an aggregate balance of $159.4 million at the time it was repaid in full at closing of the 77 Mortgage Loan. We borrowed $133.1 million on the closing date of the 77 Mortgage Loan and the balance of the funds used to repay the facility were obtained from an increase in the Mezzanine Loan, the Berkley Partner Loan as well as funds raised through the Private Placement. The $33.6 million remaining availability will be used to, among other things, complete construction of 77 Greenwich and fund carry costs while the residential condominium units are being sold. The 77 Mortgage Loan has a two-year term with an option to extend for an additional year under certain circumstances and is secured by the Mortgage Borrowers fee interest in 77 Greenwich. The 77 Mortgage Loan bears interest at a rate 27 Table of Contents per annum equal to the greater of (i) 7.00% in excess of LIBOR and (ii) 7.25%; provided that, if, on April 22, 2023, the outstanding principal balance of the 77 Mortgage Loan, together with any accrued and unpaid PIK Interest and unpaid Additional Unused Fee (as those terms are defined below) is equal to or greater than $91.0 million, the rate per annum will be equal to the greater of (i) 9.00% in excess of LIBOR and (ii) 9.25%. If cash flow from 77 Greenwich (including proceeds from the sales of residential units) is insufficient to pay interest payments when due, any accrued but unpaid interest will remain unpaid and interest will continue to accrue on such unpaid amounts (PIK Interest) until the cumulative PIK Interest and Additional Unused Fee accrues to $4.5 million (the Threshold Amount), after which all such amounts in excess of the Threshold Amount shall be paid in cash on a monthly basis until such amounts are less than the Threshold Amount. As advances of the 77 Mortgage Loan are made to Mortgage Borrower and the outstanding principle balance of the 77 Mortgage Loan increases, net proceeds from the sales of condominium units will be paid to 77 Mortgage Lender to reduce the outstanding balance of the 77 Mortgage Loan. A 1% per annum fee (the Additional Unused Fee) on a $3.0 million portion (the Additional Amount) of the 77 Mortgage Loan, is payable on a monthly basis on the undrawn portion of such Additional Amount. To the extent the 77 Mortgage Loan is not fully funded by October 22, 2022 (April 22, 2023 in the case of amounts with respect to construction work related to the new handicapped accessible subway entrance on Trinity Place), 77 Mortgage Lender may in its discretion force fund the remaining balance other than the Additional Amount into a reserve account held by 77 Mortgage Lender and disbursed in accordance with the terms of the 77 Mortgage Loan Agreement. The 77 Mortgage Loan is prepayable without penalty, subject to 77 Mortgage Lender receiving a minimum total return of $15.26 million, or if an advance has been made of the Additional Amount, the sum of $15.26 million, plus 10% of the Additional Amount that has been disbursed, in each case, inclusive of interest and fees, and must be prepaid in part in certain circumstances such as in the event of the sale of residential and retail condominium units. Mortgage Borrower is required to achieve completion of the construction work and the improvements for the Project on or before July 1, 2022, subject to certain exceptions. The 77 Mortgage Loan Agreement also includes additional customary affirmative and negative covenants for loans of this type, with the first sales pace covenant in April 2023. In connection with the 77 Mortgage Loan Agreement, we entered into guarantees with the 77 Mortgage Lender pursuant to which we guaranteed the completion and payment of costs and expenses related to the construction; the payment of accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, costs, expenses and payments due and payable with respect to the 77 Mortgage Loan or 77 Greenwich; and the payment when due of all amounts due to 77 Mortgage Lender, as a result of bad-boy provisions. Mortgage Borrower and the Company also entered into an environmental compliance and indemnification undertaking for the benefit of 77 Mortgage Lender. Additionally, Mortgage Borrower is required to provide a letter of credit in an amount not less than $4.0 million. The letter of credit will be reduced to $3.0 million following, among other things, (x) final completion of the Project, subject to certain exceptions, and (y) paydown of the 77 Mortgage Loan to a basis of $625 per square feet of the unsold residential units. As of December 31, 2021, the 77 Mortgage Loan had been paid down by approximately $8.9 million through closed sales of residential condominium units to a balance of $125.4 million and we had accrued $1.8 million in PIK interest, which is recorded in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all covenants under the 77 Mortgage Loan. Mezzanine Loan In December 2020, we entered into a mezzanine loan agreement with an affiliate of the CCF Lender (the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, and the loan thereunder, the Mezzanine Loan). The Mezzanine Loan was originally for the amount of $7.5 million and has a term of three years with two one-year extension options, exercisable under certain circumstances. The collateral for the Mezzanine Loan was the borrowers equity interest in its direct, wholly-owned subsidiary, which owns 100% of the equity interests in the borrower under the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility. The blended interest rate for the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and the Mezzanine Loan, assuming the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and the Mezzanine Loan are fully drawn, was 9.44% on an annual basis. Interest on the Mezzanine Loan is not payable on a monthly basis but instead is automatically added to the unpaid principal amount on a monthly basis (and therefore accrues interest) and is payable in full on the maturity date of the Mezzanine Loan. Upon final repayment of the Mezzanine Loan, a MOIC will be due on substantially the same terms as provided for in the CCF. The Mezzanine Loan may not be prepaid prior to prepayment in full of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, but if the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility is being prepaid in full, the Mezzanine Loan may be prepaid simultaneously therewith. Subject to the prior sentence the Mezzanine Loan may be prepaid in whole or in part, without penalty or premium (other than payment of the MOIC amount, 28 Table of Contents if applicable, as provided above), upon prior written notice to the lender under the Mezzanine Loan. In connection with the Mezzanine Loan, the Company entered into a completion guaranty, carry guaranty, equity funding guaranty, recourse guaranty and environmental indemnification undertaking substantially consistent with the Companys existing guarantees made to the 77 Greenwich Lender in connection with the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility. In October 2021, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement was amended and restated to, among other things, (i) increase the amount of the loan thereunder by approximately $22.77 million, of which $0.77 million reflects interest previously accrued under the original Mezzanine Loan, (ii) reflected the pledge of the equity interests in the Mortgage Borrower to the Mezzanine Lender as additional collateral for the Mezzanine Loan and (iii) conform certain of the covenants to those included in the 77 Mortgage Loan Agreement, as applicable. Additionally, the existing completion guaranty, carry guaranty, recourse guaranty and environmental indemnification executed in connection with the original Mezzanine Loan Agreement were amended to conform to the mortgage guarantees and mortgage environmental indemnity made in connection with the 77 Mortgage Loan (and the existing equity funding guaranty was terminated). As of December 31, 2021, the Mezzanine Loan had a balance of $30.3 million and accrued interest totaled approximately $1.1 million. See Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the covenants of the Mezzanine Loan. 237 11 th Loans In May 2018, in connection with the acquisition of 237 11 th , we entered into two-year interest-only financings with an aggregate principal amount of $67.8 million, which was comprised of a $52.4 million mortgage loan and a $15.4 million mezzanine loan bearing interest at a blended average rate of 3.72% over the 30-day LIBOR, each with a one-year extension option upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The mezzanine loan was repaid in full in February 2020. In June 2020, the maturity of the 237 11 th mortgage loan was extended to June 2021 and amended to include a delayed draw facility of $4.25 million. In conjunction with the amendment, a LIBOR floor of 50 basis points was put in place, the spread was increased by 25 basis points to 2.25% and the exit fee was increased by 50 basis points to 1.0%. In June 2021, we repaid the 237 11 th mortgage loans balance of $56.4 million in full and paid an exit fee of $567,000. Simultaneously, in June 2021, in connection with the refinancing of the 237 11 th mortgage loan, we entered into a $50.0 million senior loan (the 237 11 th Senior Loan) and a $10 million mezzanine loan (the 237 11 th Mezz Loan and together with the 237 11 th Senior Loan, the 237 11 th Loans), provided by Natixis, bearing interest at a blended rate of 3.05% per annum. The 237 11 th Loans have an initial term of two years and three one-year extension options. The first extension option is not subject to satisfaction of any financial tests. $1.5 million of the 237 11 th Senior Loan proceeds were held back by Natixis to cover debt service and operating expense shortfalls, as well as leasing related costs. There was an outstanding balance of $48.7 million from the 237 11 th Senior Loan and $10.0 million from the 237 11 th Mezz Loan at December 31, 2021. From time to time, properties that we own, acquire or develop may experience defects, including concealed defects, or damage due to natural causes, defective workmanship or other reasons. In these situations, we pursue our rights and remedies as appropriate with insurers, contractors, sellers and others. Due to certain construction defects at 237 11 th that resulted in water penetration into the building and damage to certain apartment units and other property, which defects we believe were concealed and which would have required significant invasive work of a type not usually required or permitted, especially on a newly-built asset, to be detected, we submitted proofs of loss to our insurance carrier for property damage and business interruption (lost revenue) in March 2019. The insurance carrier subsequently disclaimed coverage for the losses and we filed a complaint against the carrier alleging that it breached the insurance policy by denying coverage. We also filed legal claims against the seller, its parent company, and the general contractor to recover damages arising from the defective construction. In addition, the general contractor has impleaded into that litigation several subcontractors who performed work on the property. Management expects to recover some portion of the cost incurred to repair the property through the litigations and/or settlement negotiations with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, the subcontractors, and the insurance carrier, although the amount of damages that may be recoverable in litigation and/or potential settlement negotiations are uncertain at this time, as is the timing of receipt of any such payments, which has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting backlog in the court system and slowdown 29 Table of Contents in judicial proceedings. We have engaged in mediation with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, and the third-party defendants impleaded by the general contractor to explore the possibility of settling the case involving those parties, but to date, have not reached an agreement. We incurred significant cash outflows for costs associated with these repairs and remediation, which commenced in September 2019. As of December 31, 2021, remediation work was complete. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 100% of rent due. As of December 31, 2021, the property was approximately 97.1% leased. The Berkley Loan We own a 50% interest in a joint venture formed to acquire and operate The Berkley, which is currently under contract for sale. In December 2016, the joint venture closed on the acquisition of The Berkley through a wholly-owned special purpose entity for a purchase price of $68.885 million, of which $42.5 million was financed through a 10-year loan (the Berkeley Loan) secured by The Berkley, and the balance was paid in cash, half of which was funded by us. On February 28, 2020, in connection with a refinancing, the Berkley Loan was repaid in full and it was replaced with a new 7-year, $33.0 million loan (the New Berkley Loan) which bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.717% and is interest only during the initial five years. It is pre-payable at any time and can be increased by up to $6.0 million under certain circumstances. We and our joint venture partner are joint and several recourse carve-out guarantors under the New Berkley Loan. The Berkley Partner Loan In October 2021, we entered into a loan agreement with our partner in The Berkley JV, pursuant to which our partner agreed to lend us up to $10.5 million principal amount, $500,000 of which is available only to be applied to interest payments, secured by our interest in the joint venture entity, maturing in one year, with two 12-month extension options subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. The loan bears interest at a rate of 10% per year, with a portion deferred until maturity. $10.0 million was funded at closing of the loan and is the balance of the loan at December 31, 2021. Secured Line of Credit Our $12.75 million secured line of credit with Webster Bank (formerly known as Sterling National Bank) is secured by the Paramus, New Jersey property. In March 2021, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity date to March 2022, and in February 2022 it was extended to March 2023. The secured line of credit, which prior to the amendment, bore interest at 200 basis points over the 30-day LIBOR, now bears interest at the prime rate, currently 3.25%. The secured line of credit is pre-payable at any time without penalty. As of December 31, 2021, the secured line of credit had an outstanding balance of $12.75 million and an effective interest rate of 3.25%. 250 North 10 th Note We own a 10% interest in a joint venture with TF Cornerstone (the 250 North 10 th JV) formed to acquire and operate 250 North 10 th , a recently built 234-unit apartment building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. On January 15, 2020, the 250 North 10 th JV closed on the acquisition of the property through a wholly-owned special purpose entity for a purchase price of $137.75 million, of which $82.75 million was financed through a 15-year mortgage loan (the 250 North 10 th Note) secured by 250 North 10 th and the balance was paid in cash. Our share of the equity totaling approximately $5.9 million was funded through a loan (the Partner Loan) from our joint venture partner. The Partner Loan bears interest at 7.0% and is prepayable any time within its four year term. Our partner has the option of having the Partner Loan repaid in our common stock if the price of our common stock exceeds $6.50 per share at the time of conversion. The non-recourse 250 North 10 th Note bears interest at 3.39% for the duration of the loan term and has covenants, defaults, and a non-recourse carve out guaranty executed by us. We earned an acquisition fee at closing and are entitled to ongoing asset management fees and a promote upon the achievement of certain performance hurdles. Private Placement Transaction and Rights Offering On October 22, 2021, we entered into a private placement agreement with certain existing shareholders (Investors), pursuant to which we issued to the Investors an aggregate of 2,539,473 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.90 per share, and we received gross proceeds of $4.8 million, which closed on the same day. 30 Table of Contents On December 8, 2021, we closed on a common stock rights offering to existing shareholders at a price of $1.90 per share, which resulted in the issuance of 903,576 shares of our common stock and we received gross proceeds of $1.7 million. At-The-Market Equity Offering Program In August 2021, we entered into an "at-the-market" equity offering program (the ATM Program), to sell up to an aggregate of $10.0 million in shares of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we sold 701,327 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $1.4 million (excluding approximately $169,000 in professional and brokerage fees) at a weighted average price of $1.95 per share. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $8.6 million of our common stock remained available for issuance under the ATM Program. Cash Flows Cash Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net cash used in operating activities decreased by approximately $3.1 million to $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. This decrease was mainly due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and pension liabilities of $2.3 million over the same period last year. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by approximately $41.0 million to $14.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $55.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the $22.3 million in net proceeds from the closing on sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich during 2021, as well as a reduction of $15.4 million in net additions to real estate this period compared to the same period last year. In addition, we contributed $5.4 million to our investment in The Berkley joint venture in connection with the pay-down of its mortgage during the year ended December 31, 2020. This was partially offset by a decrease of $2.0 of deferred real estate deposits on residential condominium units compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net cash provided by financing activities decreased by approximately $32.7 million to $30.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $62.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities primarily relates to the $134.3 million, $21.2 million, $58.7 million, $22.8 million, $10 million and $3.3 million in borrowings from the 77 Mortgage Loan, 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, the New 237 11 th Loans, the Mezzanine Loan, the Berkley Partner Loan and the 237 11 th Loan, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to borrowing $35.75 million, $42.1 million, $7.5 million, $5.0 million, $723,000 and $243,000 in proceeds from the Corporate Credit Facility, 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, the Mezzanine Loan, the Secured Line of Credit, the 237 11 th Loan and the Paycheck Protection Program loan, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2020. This was partially offset by the payment of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility of $160.3 million, 237 11 th Loan of $56.4 million and the 77 Mortgage Loan of $8.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to repaying the $15.4 million 237 11 th mezzanine loan, $8.0 million on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and $2.5 million on the Secured Line of Credit during the year ended December 31, 2020. Material Cash Requirements We estimate that for the year ending December 31, 2022, our cash requirements will be approximately $105,000 for capital expenditures and development or redevelopment expenditures (including tenant improvements and leasing commissions) on existing properties, other than for 77 Greenwich which will be funded under the 77 Mortgage Loan, including our portion of our two joint venture properties. We anticipate funding these capital expenditures through cash on hand and operating cash flow. We currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the 77 Mortgage Loan, together with equity funded by us to date, will be sufficient to complete the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. Future property acquisitions may require substantial capital investments for refurbishment and leasing costs. 31 Table of Contents Net Operating Losses We believe that our U.S. federal NOLs as of the emergence date of the Syms bankruptcy were approximately $162.8 million and believe our U.S. federal NOLs as of December 31, 2021 were approximately $247.5 million. In connection with the conveyance of the school condominium to the SCA, we applied approximately $11.6 million of federal NOLs against taxable capital gains of approximately $18.5 million. Since 2009 through December 31, 2021, we have utilized approximately $23.8 million of the federal NOLs. Pursuant to the TCJA, corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit carryforwards are eligible for a 50% refund in tax years 2018 through 2020, and beginning in tax year 2021, any remaining AMT credit carryforwards are 100% refundable. As a result of these new rules, we had recorded a tax benefit and refund receivable of $3.1 million in 2017 in connection with our valuation allowance release. We received approximately $1.6 million of the refund receivable in October 2019, and the balance of approximately $1.5 million in July 2020. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law. The CARES Act accelerated the ability of corporations to recover AMT credits, permitting a full refund for tax years 2018 and 2019. The CARES Act also included provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferral of employer side social security payments, net operating loss carrybacks and carryforwards, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations, increased limitations on qualified charitable contributions, and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property. It also appropriated funds for the SBA Paycheck Protection Program loans that are forgivable in certain situations to promote continued employment, as well as Economic Injury Disaster Loans to provide liquidity to small businesses harmed by COVID-19. Management is monitoring the impact that the CARES Act may have on the Company. The CARES Act did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows for fiscal years 2021 and 2020. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that the entire deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategies. Accordingly, a valuation allowance of $66.6 million was recorded as of December 31, 2021. We believe that certain of the transactions that occurred in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy in September 2012, including the rights offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former majority shareholder of Syms in accordance with the Plan, resulted in us undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, we believe that we should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, we believe that our NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. However, if we were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize our NOLs could be subject to limitation under Section 382. In addition, the TCJA limited the deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year. However, the CARES Act suspended the 80% limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021, and allowed losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2021 to be carried back up to five years. Even if all of our regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing our NOLs, we may still be subject to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with our NOLs. This provision generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 Summary of 32 Table of Contents Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. Critical Accounting Policies a. Real Estate - Real estate assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. All costs related to the improvement or replacement of real estate properties are capitalized. Additions, renovations and improvements that enhance and/or extend the useful life of a property are also capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance, repairs and improvements that do not materially prolong the useful life of an asset are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as described in the table below: Category Terms Buildings and improvements 10 - 39 years Tenant improvements Shorter of remaining term of the lease or useful life Furniture and fixtures 5 - 8 years b. Real Estate Under Development - We capitalize certain costs related to the development and redevelopment of real estate including initial project acquisition costs, pre-construction costs and construction costs for each specific property. Additionally, we capitalize operating costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance and compensation and related costs of personnel directly involved with the specific project related to real estate under development. Capitalization of these costs begin when the activities and related expenditures commence, and ceases when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity at which time the project is placed in service and depreciation commences. Revenue earned under short-term license agreements at properties under development is offset against these capitalized costs. c. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets - We periodically review long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We consider relevant cash flow, managements strategic plans and significant decreases, if any, in the market value of the asset and other available information in assessing whether the carrying value of the assets can be recovered. When such events occur, we compare the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted expected future cash flows, excluding interest charges, from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this comparison indicates an impairment, the carrying amount would then be compared to the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. 77 Greenwich is a residential condominium development project currently in the development stage and managements assessment for impairment indicators requires significant assumptions and estimates in relation to the status and progress of the development costs against budget, forecasting estimated costs to complete the project, estimated sales velocity and estimates of sales proceeds from the sale of completed condominiums. We considered all the aforementioned indicators of impairment for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. No provision for impairment was recorded during the years ended December 31, 2021 or 2020, respectively. d. Income Taxes - We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method as required by the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. ASC 740-10-65 addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under ASC 740-10-65, we may recognize the tax benefit from an 33 Table of Contents uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. ASC 740-10-65 also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and increased other disclosures. As of both December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had determined that no liabilities are required in connection with unrecognized tax positions. As of December 31, 2021, our tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2018 through December 31, 2021 are subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service. Our state returns are open to examination for the years December 31, 2017 or 2018 through December 31, 2021, depending on the jurisdiction. e. Revenue Recognition Leases with tenants are accounted for as operating leases. Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective lease, beginning when the tenant takes possession of the space. The excess of rents recognized over amounts contractually due pursuant to the underlying leases are included in deferred rents receivable. In addition, retail leases typically provide for the reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses. As lessor, when reporting revenue, we have elected to combine the lease and non-lease components of our operating lease agreements and account for the components as a single lease component in accordance with ASC Topic 842. Lease revenues and reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses are presented in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income as rental revenues. Also, these reimbursements of expenses are recognized within revenue in the period the expenses are incurred. We assess the collectability of our accounts receivable related to tenant revenues. We applied the guidance under ASC 842 in assessing our lease payments: if collection of rents under specific operating leases is not probable, then we recognize the lesser of that leases rental income on a straight-line basis or cash received, plus variable rents as earned. Once this assessment is completed, we apply a general reserve, as provided under ASC 450-20, if applicable. Revenues on sale of residential condominiums reflects the gross sales price and related profits from sales of residential condominium units are recognized at the time of the closing of a sale, when title to and possession of the units are transferred to the buyer. Our performance obligation, to deliver the agreed-upon condominium, is generally satisfied in less than one year from the original contract date. Cash proceeds from unit closings held in escrow for our benefit are included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheets. Customer cash deposits on residential condominiums that are in contract are recorded as restricted cash and the related liability is recorded in accounts payable and accrued expenses in our consolidated balance sheets. Our cost of sales consists of allocated expenses related to the initial acquisition, demolition, construction and development of the condominium complex, including associated building costs, development fees, salaries, benefits, bonuses and share-based compensation expense, including other directly associated overhead costs, as well as qualifying interest and financing costs. f. Stock-Based Compensation We have granted stock-based compensation, which is described below in Note 12 Stock-Based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, which establishes accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services and ASU No. 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which provides additional guidance related to share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods or services from non-employees. Under the provisions of ASC 718-10-35, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award on that date, and is expensed at the grant date (for the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the related vesting periods. Accounting Standards Updates See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on or any supplement to this Annual Report, may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of 34 Table of Contents the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions that are not historical facts, and other statements identified by words such as may, will, expects, believes, plans, estimates, potential, or continues, or the negative thereof or other and similar expressions. In addition, in some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others: the impact of COVID-19; risks and uncertainties as to the terms, timing, structure, benefits and costs of any capital raising or strategic transaction and whether one will be consummated on terms acceptable to us or at all; our limited cash resources, generation of minimal revenues from operations, and our reliance on external sources of financing to fund operations in the future; our ability to execute our business plan, including as it relates to the development of and sale of residential condominium units at our largest asset, 77 Greenwich; risks associated with our debt, including the risk of defaults on our obligations and debt service requirements; risks associated with covenant restrictions in our loan documents that could limit our flexibility to execute our business plan; adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market; general economic and business conditions, including with respect to real estate, and their effect on the New York City real estate market in particular; our ability to obtain additional financing and refinance existing loans and on favorable terms; our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated and investment returns from our properties planned to be developed may be less than anticipated; our ability to enter into new leases and renew existing leases with tenants at our commercial and residential properties; we may acquire properties subject to unknown or known liabilities, with limited or no recourse to the seller; risks associated with the effect that rent stabilization regulations may have on our ability to raise and collect rents; competition for new acquisitions and investments; risks associated with acquisitions and investments in owned and leased real estate; risks associated with joint ventures; our ability to maintain certain state tax benefits with respect to certain of our properties; our ability to obtain required permits, site plan approvals and/or other governmental approvals in connection with the development or redevelopment of our properties; 35 Table of Contents costs associated with complying with environmental laws and environmental contamination, as well as the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements; loss of key personnel; the effects of new tax laws; our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset future taxable income and capital gains for U.S. Federal, state and local income tax purposes; risks associated with current political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to the outbreak of contagious diseases; risks associated with breaches of information technology systems; stock price volatility and other risks associated with a lightly traded stock; stockholders may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future; a declining stock price may make it more difficult to raise capital in the future; the influence of certain significant stockholders; limitations in our charter on transactions in our common stock by substantial stockholders, designed to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, may not succeed and/or may limit the liquidity of our common stock; certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; certain provisions in our charter documents may have the effect of limiting our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for certain disputes; and unanticipated difficulties which may arise and other factors which may be outside our control or that are not currently known to us or which we believe are not material. In evaluating such statements, you should specifically consider the risks identified under the section entitled Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those contemplated by any forward looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the SEC. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of any documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the date of such document, in each case based on information available to us as of such date, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.