Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources below, the Company ceased reporting on the liquidation basis of accounting, in light of its available cash resources, the estimated range of outstanding payments on unresolved claims, and its ability to operate as a going concern. The Company resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015. The impact of this change in accounting is discussed below in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBasis of Accounting; Change from Liquidation Accounting to Going Concern Accounting and Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Basis of Presentation). The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to the last day of February each year. Properties Owned Properties The Company owns the Trinity Place Property, a shopping center in West Palm Beach, Florida and retail boxes in Westbury, New York and Paramus, New Jersey. Certain information about these properties as of February 28, 2015, including tenant leases, is set forth below in Item 2. Properties. 3 Sold Properties Since the effective date of the Plan, the Company has sold 13 properties and the Secaucus condominium, including three in the most recently ended fiscal year. Certain information about these properties, including the proceeds, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, are set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Miami, FL Short term property 53,000 $ 4.1 September, 2012 Houston, TX Short term property 42,000 3.6 November, 2012 Fairfield, CT Short term property 43,000 5.5 December, 2012 Secaucus, NJ (Condominium) Short term property 2,000 0.3 January, 2013 Southfield, MI Short term property 60,000 2.5 April, 2013 Marietta, GA Short term property 77,000 2.9 July, 2013 Ft. Lauderdale, FL Short term property 55,000 1.9 August, 2013 Elmsford, NY Medium term property 59,000 22.0 August, 2013 Cherry Hill, NJ Short term property 150,000 4.5 September, 2013 Addison, IL Short term property 68,000 1.9 December, 2013 Norcross, GA Short term property 69,000 1.1 February, 2014 Berwyn, PA Short term property 69,000 3.0 April, 2014 Secaucus, NJ Short term property 340,000 28.0 May, 2014 Williamsville, NY Short term property 102,000 2.4 September, 2014 Total 1,189,000 $ 83.7 Chapter 11 Cases and Plan Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 in the Court on the Petition Date and were operating as debtors-in-possession through September 14, 2012, at which time the Plan became effective and reorganized Syms merged with and into Trinity. During the Chapter 11 cases, the Debtors sold their inventory and much of their furniture, fixtures and equipment, ceased retail operations at all of their stores and vacated all their leased retail store and distribution center locations. As of the Petition Date, the Debtors were lessees under 35 commercial real estate leases. On December 16, 2011, the Court entered an order that approved the Debtors proposed procedures for the marketing and disposition of their leases. The lease marketing process resulted in the sale of the Debtors interest in, or consensual termination of, certain of the Debtors leases. The Debtors rejected several other leases effective as of December 31, 2011. Under the Bankruptcy Code, when a debtor rejects a real estate lease, the rejection is considered a breach that gives rise to a claim for damages resulting from the breach of the lease, which claims are subject to certain caps and limitations imposed by the Bankruptcy Code. On August 30, 2012, the Court entered an order confirming the Plan, and the Plan became effective on September 14, 2012. Upon the effective date of the Plan and pursuant to its terms, Syms and its subsidiaries were reorganized and, subject to the obligations under the Plan, discharged of all claims. To effect the reorganization, Syms was reincorporated in Delaware by way of a merger with and into Trinity. As a result of the merger, each share of Syms was converted into one share of Trinity. Under the Plan, Trinity was to attempt to monetize its real estate assets over time in a manner intended to maximize their value for the benefit of creditors and shareholders. Under the Plan, Syms creditors holding Allowed Claims (as defined in the Plan) are entitled to payment of those claims in full. The Plan also provides for Filenes, LLC creditors to receive recoveries from the monetization of certain of Trinitys assets. Filenes, LLC Class 4A (General Unsecured (Short-Term)) creditors holding Allowed Claims are entitled to payment in full and Filenes, LLC Class 5A (General Unsecured (Long-Term)) creditors holding Allowed Claims are entitled to a recovery of 75% on their claims. See below for additional information on the claims payment process and status of outstanding unresolved claims. Claims Payment Process The Company is in the process of reconciling, objecting to and resolving the remaining claims associated with the discharge of liabilities pursuant to the Plan. During the period from the effective date of the Plan through March 2, 2013, the Companys first fiscal year-end following emergence from Chapter 11, the Company paid approximately $26.2 million to holders of Allowed Claims as defined in and in accordance with the Plan. During the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014, the Company made cash payments to holders of Allowed Claims, together with other payments required under the Plan, including to the former Majority Shareholder, in an aggregate amount of approximately $33.7 million. During the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, the Company made cash payments to holders of Allowed Claims, together with other payments required under the Plan, in the aggregate amount of approximately $30.0 million. The Company subsequently made additional cash payments through May 14, 2015 of $12.7 million, representing total payments of approximately $102.6 million since emergence. The Company expects to pay additional Syms and Filenes Class 3 Convenience Claims, Syms Class 4 General Unsecured claims and Filenes Class 4 General Unsecured (Short-Term Claims), and Filenes Class 5 (General Unsecured (Long-Term) Claims) out of Net Proceeds (as defined in the Plan) as they become Allowed Claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan. As of May 14, 2015 and February 28, 2015, based on the reconciliation work to date and the payments made as described above, the Company believes that the remaining estimated aggregate allowed amount of creditor claims, together with the net amount due to the former Majority Shareholder, is approximately $18.0 million and $35.2 million, respectively. Because holders of Allowed Filenes, LLC Class (General Unsecured (Long-Term) Claims) (as defined in the Plan) are entitled to a 75% recovery, as of May 14, 2015 and February 28, 2015 the remaining estimated aggregate amount of cash distributions to creditors, the former Majority Shareholder ($7.1 million), and the multiemployer pension plan ($4.0 million payable through 2019) under the Plan is estimated to be in the aggregate approximately $16.3 million and $29.0 million, respectively. 4 The process of reconciling claims is different from the process of actually resolving claims. Accordingly, the above estimates are based primarily on the Companys identification and reconciliation of the amounts of asserted claims to the Companys books and records, and not on the negotiation or settlement of specific claims. Because of the ongoing reconciliation and settlement processes, the ultimate amount of allowed claims and the ultimate amount of distributions under the Plan could be materially different from the Companys current estimates. The Plan and the Companys certificate of incorporation provide that if there has not been a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction, as defined in the Plan, by October 1, 2016, then the size of the Board of Directors shall automatically increase to nine members, seven of which are to be elected by the holder of the Series A preferred stock. If a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction has occurred but the required payments to the former Majority Shareholder have not been made in full by October 16, 2016, then the size of the Board will automatically be adjusted to four members, three of whom would be elected by the former Majority Shareholder. In each case, the Board of Directors will remain controlled by the holder of the Series A preferred stock or the former Majority Shareholder, as applicable, until the required payments are made. Based on the Companys available liquidity and estimated payments in respect of outstanding claims as described above, the Company currently anticipates a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction and the required payment to the former Majority Shareholder will be made prior to these dates. Rights Offering and Redemption of Former Majority Shareholder In connection with the Plan, Syms entered into an Equity Commitment Agreement, (the ECA), among (i) Syms, (ii) Marcy Syms, (iii) the Laura Merns Living Trust, (iv) the Marcy Syms Revocable Living Trust (together with Marcy Syms and the Laura Merns Living Trust, the former Majority Shareholder) and (v) certain members of the Official Committee of Syms Equity Security Holders and their affiliates, referred to as the Backstop Parties. The ECA provided that, pursuant to and upon the effective date of the Plan, the former Majority Shareholder would sell all of its shares of Syms common stock to Syms at a price of $2.49 per share. Accordingly, on September 14, 2012, immediately following the effectiveness of the Plan, the former Majority Shareholder sold all of its 7,857,794 shares of common stock to Syms. Payment for the shares is to be made to the former Majority Shareholder in accordance with the Plan as the Companys real estate assets are monetized. The net amount due to the former Majority Shareholder was initially $17.8 million and as of each of February 28, 2015 and May 14, 2015 is $7.1 million, which amount is included in the estimated remaining distributions to creditors. Under the terms of the Plan, the Company is generally restricted from making any distributions, dividends or redemptions on its common stock until after the former Majority Shareholder payments are made in full. The certificate of incorporation of the Company provides for a share of Series B preferred stock owned by the former Majority Shareholder and entitling the former Majority Shareholder to control a majority of the Board of Directors if the former Majority Shareholder payments are not made by October 16, 2016, provided that and conditional upon the General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction having occurred. As noted above, based on the Companys available liquidity and estimated payments in respect of outstanding claims, the Company currently anticipates the payment to the former Majority Shareholder will be made by such date. In connection with the ECA and pursuant to the Plan, Syms conducted a rights offering in which it offered to sell to all existing shareholders other than the former Majority Shareholder, who qualified as accredited investors within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act, the right to purchase their pro rata portion of 10,040,160 new shares of the Companys common stock (the Rights Offering). The descriptions of certain transactions, payments and other matters contemplated by the Plan above and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K are summaries only and do not purport to be complete and are qualified in all respects by the actual provisions of the Plan and related documents. 5 Operating Reserves The Plan provides for a corporate budget for the Company. This Plan budget is composed of certain operating reserves to fund working capital and the Companys operations while it operates under the Plan. Pursuant to the Plan, these reserves were initially funded from the proceeds realized by the Company from the sale of assets, settlements or any other sources in the first year following the Plan effective date on September 14, 2012. For the two year period from September 14, 2012 through September 13, 2014, the amounts to be funded and used in these reserves were set under the Plan as follows: (i) a corporate overhead reserve of $5.0 million in the aggregate, (ii) a $3.8 million pension fund reserve (of which $2.0 million is to fund the minimum annual payments due under the Syms pension plan and $1.8 million is to fund the minimum quarterly payments due to Local 1102 for the allowed amount of the claims for pension withdrawal liability), (iii) a carry cost/repair/tenant improvement reserve of $9.0 million in the aggregate, and (iv) a reserve for carry costs of the Trinity Place Property of $3.0 million in the aggregate. Subsequent to September 14, 2014, additional amounts are to be funded to those four reserves plus a discretionary reserve and an emergency fund reserve of $0.5 million each. The Companys $5 million corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan was depleted prior to the end of the two-year period following the Plan effective date, primarily due to greater than expected professional fees. In January 2014, the holder of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock, who has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, consented to an increase in the corporate overhead reserve to $11 million, subject to certain limitations and a reduction of up to approximately $0.8 million if certain anticipated expenses are not incurred. Up to $2.5 million of corporate overhead expenses previously paid by the Company from available cash will count toward and be reimbursed from the increased corporate overhead reserve following receipt of net cash proceeds from future property sales. Under the Plan, the consent of the holder of the Series A preferred stock is required for an increase in the aggregate cap for any reserve and the use of funds in a reserve for expenses designated to be paid from another reserve, except that, (i) by a majority vote of the Board of Directors, amounts in the corporate overhead reserve may be reallocated to the carry cost/repair/tenant improvement reserve and (ii) by a majority vote of the Board of Directors, and with the consent of the Independent Director, as described in the Plan, amounts in the corporate overhead reserve may be reallocated to the Trinity Place Property carry reserve (see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources, for additional discussion). As noted above, following a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction and the final payment to the former Majority Shareholder the Company will have satisfied its remaining obligations under the Plan and will no longer operate under the terms and restrictions of the Plan, including with respect to this corporate budget. Competition The markets in which the Companys properties are located are inherently competitive. With respect to the Companys properties currently located in Paramus, New Jersey, West Palm Beach, Florida and Westbury, New York, and with respect to any future real estate assets that the Company acquires, the Company will be competing for some of the same tenants, contractors, lenders and potential purchasers or investors with respect to other assets within the same markets. Competitive factors with respect to the Companys Trinity Place Property may have a more material effect on the Company as it is the Companys most valuable real estate asset. Various municipal entities are making and have indicated an intent to continue to make significant investments in the immediate vicinity of the Trinity Place Property in order to continue to support the growth of the downtown Manhattan neighborhood as a vibrant 24/7 community to work, visit and live. Several privately funded commercial and residential developments are being built or are proposed to take advantage of the increasing desirability of the neighborhood. The impact of these changing supply and demand characteristics is uncertain, and they could positively or negatively impact the Companys evolving plan to maximize the value of its Trinity Place Property. Environmental Compliance Under various Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real-estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owners ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. 6 Other Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopment projects that a potential purchaser would want to undertake with respect to any particular parcel of real estate owned by the Company. Such laws, ordinances and regulations also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership and management of certain properties, the Company could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or related claims. Based on a 2012 Phase 1 Environmental Assessment for the Trinity Place Property, the following conditions were noted for further investigation: an underground storage tank, asbestos containing materials and lead based paint. The Company estimates it will incur a minimum of $0.5 million in fees and abatement related to the Trinity Place Property. The Company estimates that it will incur approximately $0.1 million in fees for Phase 1, Phase 2 and asbestos studies when selling or redeveloping its remaining properties. Trademarks Various trademarks controlled by and/or owned by the Company including Filenes Basement, Stanley Blacker, Running of the Brides and An Educated Consumer is Our Best Customer, have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Employees As of February 28, 2015, the Company had six full-time employees staffed in executive, management, accounting and administration capacities. General Information about Syms and Trinity Syms was incorporated in New Jersey in 1983. Trinity was incorporated in Delaware immediately prior to the effective date of the Plan. Trinity maintains its headquarters at 717 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York, 10022, and the telephone number is (212) 235-2190. Available Information We are a public company and are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. Accordingly, we file periodic reports and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding us and other issuers that file electronically. Our website address is www.trinityplaceholdings.com or www.tphs.com . We make available without charge, through our website in the Financials section, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. References in this document to our website are not and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and stockholders should take such risks into account in evaluating us or any investment decision involving our Company. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business. More detailed information concerning certain of the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Stockholders should also refer to the other information contained in our periodic reports, including the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. We have a limited operating history and have not generated a profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long term viability cannot be assured. Our prospects for financial success are difficult to assess because we have a limited operating history since emergence from bankruptcy and, more recently, as a going concern. The predecessor to the Company filed for Chapter 11 relief on November 2, 2011, and the Company emerged from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. The Company resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015. Since emergence from bankruptcy, we have generated limited revenues and the development of our business plan will require substantial capital expenditures. Our business could be subject to any or all of the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including, but not limited to capital resources. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities. Much of our current business plan is focused on the development or sale of the Trinity Place Property and an inability to execute this business plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business plan includes the development, redevelopment and/or sale of our remaining commercial real estate properties and in particular the development or sale of the Trinity Place Property. The Trinity Place Property currently makes up a majority of our assets. As a result, our revenues and future growth are heavily dependent on the success of implementing our business plan to develop or sell the Trinity Place Property, which is currently in pre-development. An inability to successfully execute our business plan with respect to the Trinity Place Property could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in and owning leased real estate. These include the ability to secure leases with new tenants, the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove or certain upgrades that may be needed should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenants quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if our competitors offer space at rental rates below our current rates or the market rates, we may lose current or potential tenants to other properties in our markets. Additionally, we may need to reduce rental rates below our current rates in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their leases or to attract new tenants. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected as a result of these factors. We may be unable to renew our current leases, lease vacant space, or re-lease space as our current leases expire. We cannot assure you that leases at our properties will be renewed or that such properties will be re-leased at favorable rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults or space that is currently unoccupied, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. 8 Competition may adversely affect our ability to purchase properties and to attract and retain tenants. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources than we have that compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in our properties. Our competitors include real estate investment trusts, financial institutions, private funds, insurance companies, pension funds, private companies, family offices, sovereign wealth funds and individuals. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties than we wish to pay. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, e-commerce, direct mail and telemarketing, which could reduce rents payable to us and reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties leading to increased vacancy rates at our properties. We may become subject to the risks associated with partnerships and joint ventures. Although we do not currently have joint ventures, we may become involved in partnerships and/or joint ventures in the future with respect to current or future properties. Partnerships and joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made or owned solely by us, including the possibility that our partner or co-venturer might become bankrupt, or may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture, activities conducted by a partner that have a negative impact on the joint venture or us, and disputes with our partner. Also, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of our funds that may be invested in joint ventures. Our ability to develop and/or redevelop our properties will depend on our obtaining certain permits, site plan approvals and other governmental approvals from local municipalities, which we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. In order to develop and/or redevelop our properties, we will be required to obtain certain permits, site plan approvals or other governmental approvals from local municipalities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits or approvals on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from developing and/or redeveloping our properties according to our business plan. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Lack of permits and approvals to develop and/or redevelop our properties could severely and adversely affect our business. We have generated minimal revenues from operations and have limited cash resources, and may be reliant on external sources of financing to fund operations in the future. As of February 28, 2015, our revenue generating activities have not yet produced sufficient funds for profitable operations. Our continued operation will be dependent upon the success of future operations and will likely require raising additional financing on acceptable terms. We have relied and may continue to rely substantially upon equity and debt financing to fund our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of financing would be available to the Company on commercially favorable terms should our capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. 9 Over 50% of our shares of common stock are controlled by three of our stockholders who may have the ability to influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. Over 50% of our shares of common stock are controlled by three of our stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Certain of our directors could have conflicts of interest due to their affiliations with certain of our stockholders, which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Alexander Matina and Marina Shevyrtalova, directors of the Company, are affiliated with entities that own a significant percentage of our common stock. This ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that involve the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The holder of our Series A preferred stock has certain voting rights and the holders of our Series A preferred stock and special stock have the right to appoint members to our Board of Directors and, consequently, the ability to exert significant influence over us. Our certificate of incorporation provides for certain rights in favor of the holder of the Series A preferred stock until such time as the General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction has occurred, including substantial voting rights and the right to elect two individuals to our Board of Directors (one of whom is the independent director nominated by the holders of common stock, with the reasonable consent of the holder of the Series A preferred stock, and one of which is elected by the holder of the Series A preferred stock). In addition, in connection with the investment in the Company by Third Avenue, a beneficial holder of over 16% of the Companys common stock, Third Avenue was issued one share of a class of special stock and the Companys certificate of incorporation was amended to provide that, from the issuance of the one share of special stock and until the Special Stock Ownership Threshold (which is 2,345,000 out of the 3,369,444 shares of common stock purchased by Third Avenue) is no longer satisfied, Third Avenue has the right to elect one director to the Board of Directors, and the total number of directors that constitute the Board of Directors elected by the holders of common stock was reduced from three to two. As a result of these voting rights and the right to elect members of our Board of Directors, these stockholders are expected to be able to exert significant influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our best interests or the best interests of the other stockholders. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified management and other personnel, including in particular our Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Messinger. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract qualified management and other personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 The failure of our wholly-owned subsidiary TPHGreenwich Owner LLC to repay the loan and any liability the Company incurs as a result of the financing arrangements and guarantees of the Company required by that loan could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure by TPHGreenwich Owner LLC (TPH Borrower), a newly formed, bankruptcy remote special purpose entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company to make scheduled repayments under the loan agreement entered into by TPH Borrower in February 2015, or the default by TPH Borrower of any of its obligations under the loan, may have an adverse impact on the Companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, TPH Borrower may be required to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the loan and the lenders may exercise other remedies available to them, including foreclosing on the Trinity Place Property. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Loan Payable) for further discussion regarding the loan transaction. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be devoted to our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. The payment of any dividends on the common stock is currently strictly limited by the terms of the Plan, which provides that dividends (other than in common stock and in other limited circumstances) are not payable until after the former Majority Shareholder payments are made in full. Accordingly, the Company has no intention of and is unable to pay dividends to the holders of common stock until at least such time as the Companys distribution obligations under the Plan have been satisfied. Payment of dividends would depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investors investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), a corporation is generally allowed a deduction for net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). As of February 28, 2015, we had available NOLs of approximately $195.0 million for regular Federal income tax purposes which will expire, if unused, beginning in 2029. Our NOLs are subject to adjustment on audit by the Internal Revenue Service. A corporations ability to deduct its NOLs and to utilize certain other available tax attributes can be substantially constrained under the general annual limitation rules of Section 382 of the Code (Section 382) if it undergoes an ownership change as defined in Section 382 (generally where cumulative stock ownership changes among material shareholders exceed 50% during a rolling three-year period). We experienced an ownership change in connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 cases. An ownership change that occurs in the future could severely limit our ability to utilize our NOLs and other tax attributes. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to utilize our NOLs, our certificate of incorporation contains transfer restrictions applicable to certain substantial shareholders, as discussed below. Although the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent an ownership change from occurring, no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case our ability to utilize our NOLs and other tax attributes could be severely limited or effectively eliminated. In addition, our ability to use our NOLs will depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. The NOLs may expire before we can generate sufficient taxable income to use them. In order to protect NOLs and certain other tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation includes certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOLs and certain other tax attributes for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, our certificate of incorporation contains certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of our common stock and may have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our stock generally. 11 Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is thinly traded. We cannot assure stockholders that an active market for our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or, if developed, that it will be sustained. As a result stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted for trading on the OTC Markets. For companies whose securities are traded in the OTC Markets, it is often more difficult to obtain accurate quotations, to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and to obtain needed capital. Because our common stock is thinly traded, even small trades can have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for such shares. The market price could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: changes in the real estate markets in which we operate; our ability to develope, re-develope or sell the Trinity Place Property and our other properties; our financial results or those of other companies in our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock; sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and other factors described in our filings with the SEC, including among others in connection with the risks noted herein. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. 12 If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restrictions on resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock could fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. In addition, until our common stock is more widely held and actively traded small sales or purchases will likely cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate dramatically up or down without regard to our financial health or business prospects. Stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities in capital raising transactions or otherwise, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 120,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 79,999,997 shares of common stock, one share of Series A preferred stock, one share of Series B preferred stock, one share of a class of special stock and 40,000,000 shares of blank-check preferred stock. As of May 14, 2015, there were 20,121,619 shares of our common stock, one share of our Series A preferred stock, one share of Series B preferred stock and one share of special stock outstanding. Any future issuance of our equity securities may dilute then-current stockholders ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. We may need to raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants, as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions and investments, development, redevelopment and repositioning of assets, or for other business purposes. Our Board of Directors may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common stock without stockholder approval, unless the approval of our common stockholders or the holder of our Series A preferred stock is required by applicable law, rule or regulation or our certificate of incorporation. The terms of equity securities issued by us in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price or have exercise prices below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. In addition to the matters identified in the risk factors above relating to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, these provisions include: 13 a classified Board of Directors with two-year staggered terms; rights of the holders of the Series A preferred stock and special stock to appoint a majority of the members of our Board of Directors; vacancies on our Board of Directors, and any newly created director positions created by the expansion of the Board of Directors, may be filled only by a majority of remaining directors then in office; not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; and authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock and result in the market price of the common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. If certain of our obligations are not satisfied by specific dates, the Plan and our certificate of incorporation provide for certain changes in control. If there has not been a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction (as defined in the Plan) by October 1, 2016, then the Companys certificate of incorporation provides for the Board of Directors to automatically increase to nine members, seven of which are to be elected by the holder of the Series A preferred stock. Also if a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction has occurred but the required payment to the former Majority Shareholder has not been made by October 16, 2016, then the Board of Directors will automatically be adjusted to have four members, three of whom are to be elected by the former Majority Shareholder. In each case, the Board of Directors will remain controlled by the holder of the Series A preferred stock or the former Majority Shareholder, as applicable, until the required payments are made. Proceeds from the monetization of the Companys assets, after the payment of budgeted costs and transaction expenses, generally must be used to pay the Companys obligations under the Plan until such time as a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction has occurred and the required payments to the former Majority Shareholder are made. Under the Plan, any proceeds generated from the monetization of the Companys assets are generally first used to pay transaction expenses and to fund the Companys operating budget. All net proceeds must then be used to satisfy Allowed Claims under the Plan and the Majority Shareholder redemption payment. As of May 14, 2015, based on the reconciliation work to date, the Company believes that the remaining estimated aggregate allowed amount of creditor claims, together with the net amount due to the former Majority Shareholder, is approximately $18.0 million. Because Filenes long-term allowed claims are entitled to a 75% recovery, the remaining estimated aggregate amount of distributions to creditors and the former Majority Shareholder under the Plan is approximately $16.3 million. Only if there are proceeds remaining after the satisfaction of such obligations under the Plan can they be used in the business of the Company or distributed to stockholders. 14 There can be no assurance that our reserves for operating expenses will be sufficient. As part of the Plan, the Company established a reserve of $5 million for corporate overhead expenses to be incurred in the first two years following the effectiveness of the Plan. The Companys corporate overhead expenses have exceeded the original expectations, and the corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan has been depleted. The Plan similarly established reserves for other operating expenses in the first two years following the effectiveness of the Plan, including one for general carrying costs and tenant improvements and one specifically for the Trinity Place Property, and there can be no assurance that those reserves will be sufficient. Although as described below under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources, the holder of the Series A preferred stock consented to an increase in the corporate overhead reserve and the Company raised approximately $13.0 million of net cash proceeds from a sale of stock in 2013 which can be can be used to fund overhead and other expenses, there can be no assurances that these steps will be sufficient to cover overhead expenses. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Item 2. PROPERTIES Below is certain information regarding the Companys commercial real estate properties, all of which are former sites of Syms. Each property is owned in fee. Near term properties and medium term properties have the meanings given them under the Plan. Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated square feet) Occupancy at February 28, 2015 Current Tenants (expiration date) % of Leases Contractually Expiring (1) New York, NY (Trinity Place Property) 57,000 N/A N/A N/A (2) Paramus, NJ Medium term property 77,000 5.2% Lenscrafters (2016) 100% (3) West Palm Beach, FL Near term property 112,000 25.2% See (3) below MTM 53% 2015 27% 2016 20% (4) Westbury, NY Medium term property 92,000 N/A N/A N/A Total Square Feet 338,000 (1) Trinity Place Property. The Trinity Place Property consists of a vacant 6-story commercial building of approximately 57,000 square feet, yielding approximately 174,000 square feet of zoning floor area as-of-right. The Company also has ownership of approximately 60,000 square feet of development rights from adjacent tax lots, one of which is owned in fee by the Company which is improved with a 4-story landmark building which cannot be demolished. (2) Paramus Property. The Paramus property consists of a 1 and part 2-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building currently has no tenants, although we are in discussions with potential tenants on an ongoing basis. The outparcel building has a tenant which has a lease expiring in 2016 and which has been in the space since 1996. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres, including approximately 77,000 square feet of rentable space. (3) West Palm Beach Property. The West Palm Beach property consists of a one-story neighborhood shopping center that contains approximately 112,000 square feet of rentable area, which includes three outparcel locations with approximately 11,000 combined square feet. The land area of the West Palm Beach property consists of approximately 515,000 square feet, or approximately 11.8 acres. The West Palm Beach property currently has 15 tenants occupying space. Of the 15 tenant leases, eight are month to month (MTM), four expire in late 2015 and three expire in early 2016. Most of these tenants have been in the center for between three to 12 years and five of the tenants have been in the center for 20 or more years. In addition, we have executed a lease with a national retailer for an approximately 43,000 square foot space. The lease contains certain terms and conditions which need to be satisfied in order for the tenant to open and start paying rent including, but not limited to, obtaining local government approvals and permits for work. We currently anticipate that such approvals and other conditions will be obtained or satisfied by late 2015, although there can be no assurances. (4) Westbury Property. The Westbury property consists of a 1-story building and lower level that contains approximately 92,000 square feet of rentable space. The land area of the Westbury property consists of approximately 256,000 square feet, or approximately 6.0 acres. Corporate Headquarters The Company leases its corporate headquarters in New York, New York (approximately 3,500 square feet). The lease expires in September 2017. 16 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is a party to routine legal proceedings, which are primarily incidental to its former business. Some of the actions to which the Company is a party are covered by insurance and are being defended or reimbursed by the Companys insurance carriers. Based on an analysis performed by the Companys actuary and available information and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from this routine litigation will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position or net assets (on either a going concern or liquidation basis). Additionally, as discussed in Item 1. Business, the Company currently operates under the Plan that was approved in connection with the resolution of the Chapter 11 cases involving Syms and its subsidiaries. On May 8, 2012, the Company filed a motion with the Court for the entry of an order by the Court approving the Companys assumption of the lease for the property located at One Syms Way, Secaucus, New Jersey. The landlord asserted a cure claim of approximately $3.5 million, plus attorneys fees and costs, which the Company contested. Based on an agreement with the landlord in July 2013, the Company established a reserve of $1.25 million for the potential payment of cure claims associated with assumption of the lease. On March 24, 2014, the Company filed a motion to assume, assign, and sell the Secaucus Lease to a third party, which offer was subsequently increased to $29 million plus the release of the cure claims reserve held by the Company on account of a dispute with the Companys landlord (the Motion). As a result of the Motion, the liability was removed as of March 1, 2014. On April 29, 2014, over the objection of the Companys landlord, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Companys decision to assume, assign, and sell the Secaucus Lease (the Approval Order), subject to certain conditions. On April 30, 2014, the landlord filed a motion requesting the Bankruptcy Court to reconsider the Approval Order . Following additional negotiations, the Company, the landlord, and the third party purchaser settled the landlords objections to the Approval Order. On May 16, 2014, the Bankruptcy Court entered an amended Approval Order approving the settlement and the sale of the Secaucus Lease, which closed on May 20, 2014. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 17 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock is quoted in the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. The trading symbol of the Companys common stock is TPHS. The following table summarizes the quarterly high and low bid quotations prices per share of the common stock as reported in the OTCQB for the quarterly periods provided. The OTCQB quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Fiscal Year Ended February 28, 2015 Fiscal Year Ended March 1, 2014 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 7.25 $ 6.25 $ 5.75 $ 4.15 Second Quarter $ 6.60 $ 5.75 $ 5.50 $ 4.15 Third Quarter $ 6.10 $ 5.76 $ 5.75 $ 3.62 Fourth Quarter $ 8.20 $ 5.52 $ 7.20 $ 5.25 Outstanding Common Stock and Holders As of May 14, 2015, we had 24,711,804 shares issued and 20,121,619 shares outstanding and there were approximately 234 record holders of the Companys common stock. Dividends No dividends were paid in fiscal 2014 or 2013. The payment of any dividends on the common stock is strictly limited by the terms of the Plan (other than in common stock and in other limited circumstances), and the Company has no intention of and is unable to pay dividends to the holders of common Stock until at least such time as the Companys distribution obligations under the Plan have been satisfied. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In accordance with the terms of the employment agreement between the Company and Matthew Messinger, the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, on March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2014, Mr. Messinger was granted 839,285 and 363,095 restricted stock unit awards, respectively (together, the RSU Awards). The issuance of the RSU Awards was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities There were no repurchases made by the Company during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 18 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Since the effective date of the Plan, Trinitys business plan has been focused on the monetization of its commercial real estate properties, including the sale or development of the Trinity Place Property and the payment of approved claims. During the period from the effective date of the Plan through the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, the Company sold 13 of its properties and the Secaucus condominium and paid approximately $90 million in respect of approved claims, with an estimated $16.3 million of payments remaining to be made following approximately $12.7 million of payments made subsequent to the end of the fiscal year. The Company currently owns, in addition to the Trinity Place Property, a shopping center in West Palm Beach, Florida and retail boxes in Westbury, New York and Paramus, New Jersey. Going forward, the Companys business is primarily to own, manage, develop and/or redevelop real estate assets and/or real estate related securities, and monetize its intellectual property assets. As discussed below and in Note 1 to the Companys financial statements (Basis of Presentation), on February 10, 2015, in light of its available cash resources, the estimated range of outstanding payments on unresolved claims, and our ability to operate as a going concern, the Company resumed accounting on a going concern basis after closing on the Loan. Because our fiscal year ended on February 28, 2015, we reported on the liquidation basis of accounting from March 2, 2014 through February 9, 2015, with the final 19 days through February 28, 2015 reporting on the going concern basis of accounting. The discussion below reflects this approach. Results of Operations Operating Activities for the Period from February 10, 2015 through February 28, 2015 under Going Concern Basis of Accounting Total revenues for the period were approximately $43,000. This represents rental revenues for two of the Companys properties, West Palm Beach, Florida and Paramus, New Jersey. Property operating expenses for the period were approximately $14,000 and consists of costs incurred for maintenance and repairs, utilities and general operating costs. Real estate tax expense for the period was approximately $12,000 and consists of real estate taxes for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. Real estate taxes of $69,000 have been capitalized as part of real estate under development. General and administrative expenses for the period were approximately $181,000 and consist of payroll and payroll related costs and costs to maintain the corporate office. Of this amount approximately $85,000 relates to stock-based compensation. Professional fees for the period were approximately $121,000. These costs consist of general corporate legal fees of approximately $20,000, bankruptcy related professional fees of approximately $30,000, audit fees of approximately $11,000, professional fees related to work on the intellectual property of $29,000 and other professional fees of approximately $31,000. Depreciation and amortization expenses for the period were approximately $35,000 and consists of depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property, as well as amortization of trademarks and deferred financing fees. Operating loss for the period was approximately $320,000. Interest expense for the period was approximately $40,000 and mainly consists of interest from the $40 million loan payable that has a variable interest rate. Interest of $68,000 was capitalized as part of real estate under development. The Company recorded an income tax provision of approximately $2,000 during the period. Net loss for the period was approximately $362,000. 19 Operating Activities for the Period from March 2, 2014 through February 9, 2015 under Liquidation Basis of Accounting For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at estimated settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports changes in estimated fair value and other adjustments recognized during the fiscal year. Certain information about the properties of the Company sold during the period from March 2, 2014 through February 9, 2015, including the proceeds generated, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, is set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Berwyn, PA Short term property 69,000 3.0 April, 2014 Secaucus, NJ Short term property 340,000 28.0 May, 2014 Williamsville, NY Short term property 102,000 2.4 September, 2014 Total 511,000 $ 33.4 The liquidation basis of accounting required management to make significant estimates and judgments. The Company adjusted its real estate assets to reflect the estimated net realizable value of the owned property. The net realizable value was estimated by considering a number of factors and the views of multiple parties from various vantage points, including input from a third party valuation expert. The value of the Companys real estate assets increased slightly from $157.7 million as of March 1, 2014 to $158.0 million as of February 9, 2015 due mainly to the increase in the value of the Trinity Place Property offset by the above sales. During the same period from March 2, 2014 through February 9, 2015, the Company used the aggregate net proceeds from asset sales to pay approximately $30.0 million of allowed claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, reducing the Companys liabilities under the Plan. In addition to the sale transactions, the Company received an additional $1.4 million in rents and other cash receipts during the period from March 2, 2014 through February 9, 2015. The Companys cash operating costs and expenses for the period from March 2, 2014 through February 9, 2015 were approximately $13.2 million, of which approximately $7.1 million pertained to real estate related costs, $4.0 million related to professional fees, of which approximately $2.5 million related mainly to legal fees required to litigate matters related to the bankruptcy cases, and $2.1 million related to payroll costs. As previously discussed, overhead expenses have exceeded the original projections, as defined in the Plan, and are outpacing the budgeted reserves, as defined in the Plan, primarily due to professional fees. The Company has obtained the consent of its Series A stockholder to an increase in operating reserves. Following a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction and payment to the former Majority Shareholder, the Company will no longer operate under the Plan, including this operating reserve budget. As of February 9, 2015, the net assets of the Company available to holders of our common stock was $129.2 million, an increase from $88.5 million as of March 1, 2014, primarily due to an increase in the estimated value of its properties. Total assets increased from $175.4 million at March 1, 2014 to $205.2 million at February 29, 2015 primarily as a result of an increase in property values of $35 million and the cash received at the closing of the $40 million Loan, partially offset by claims payments made in accordance with the Plan as well as payments of liquidation expenses from the proceeds received from the sales of properties during the period. Total liabilities decreased approximately $10.9 million primarily as a result of such payments, partially offset by the $40 million loan payable. The Company reviewed, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services in order to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the remaining liquidation period. 20 Operating Activities for the Fiscal Year Ended March 1, 2014 under Liquidation Basis of Accounting Certain information about the properties of the Company sold during fiscal 2013, including the proceeds generated, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, is set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Southfield, MI Short term property 60,000 2.5 April, 2013 Marietta, GA Short term property 77,000 2.9 July, 2013 Ft. Lauderdale, FL Short term property 55,000 1.9 August, 2013 Elmsford, NY Medium term property 59,000 22.0 August, 2013 Cherry Hill, NJ Short term property 150,000 4.5 September, 2013 Addison, IL Short term property 68,000 1.9 December, 2013 Norcross, GA Short term property 69,000 1.1 February, 2014 Total 538,000 $ 36.8 The liquidation basis of accounting required management to make significant estimates and judgments. The Company adjusted its real estate assets to reflect the estimated net realizable value of the owned property. The net realizable value was estimated, by considering a number of factors and the views of multiple parties from various vantage points, including input from a third party valuation expert. As a result of an aggregate increase in certain properties values by $53.7 million partially offset by the above sales transactions, the value of the Companys real estate assets increased from $142.6 million as of March 2, 2013 to $157.7 million as of March 1, 2014. During the same twelve-month period, the Company used the aggregate net proceeds from asset sales to pay $33.7 million of allowed claims and the former Majority Shareholder in accordance with the terms of the Plan, reducing the Companys liabilities under the Plan. In addition to the sale transactions, the Company received an additional $0.9 million in rents and other income during the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014. Subsequent to March 1, 2014, the Company sold the Berwyn, Pennsylvania property for net proceeds of approximately $3.0 million and sold the Secaucus Lease for net proceeds of approximately $28.0 million plus the release of a reserve held by the Company on account of a dispute with the Companys landlord. The Companys cash operating costs and expenses for the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014 were approximately $16.4 million, of which approximately $10.0 million pertained to real estate related costs, $3.9 million related to professional fees, $2.2 million related to payroll costs and $0.3 million related to other expenditures. As previously noted, overhead expenses had exceeded the original projections, as defined in the Plan, and had outpaced the budgeted reserves, as defined in the Plan, primarily due to professional fees; however the Company obtained the consent of its Series A stockholder to an increase in operating reserves. As of March 1, 2014, the net assets of the Company available to Common Shareholders was $88.5 million, an increase from $24.8 million as of March 2, 2013, primarily due to an increase in the estimated fair value of the Companys real estate properties of $53.7 million, the $13.0 million cash raised net of $0.5 million offering costs from the issuance of stock to Third Avenue Trust (Third Avenue), and a decrease in the estimated claims distributions. Total assets increased from $159.1 million at the end of fiscal 2012 to $175.4 million at the end of fiscal 2013 primarily as a result of updated real estate values, net of realized sales, and liabilities decreased approximately $47.4 million primarily as a result of payments made in accordance with the Plan. The capital raised during the year ended March 1, 2014 from the stock sale provided the Company with additional liquidity necessary to satisfy obligations during the end of fiscal 2013. 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of February 28, 2015, the Company had total cash of $45.4 million, of which approximately $23.9 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $21.5 million was restricted cash. As of March 1, 2014, the Company had total cash of $15.3 million, of which approximately $9.7 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $5.6 million was restricted cash. Restricted cash represents reserves used to pay operating expenses and claims payments as required under the Plan, as well as reserves required under the loan payable (see Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Loan Payable)), in the amount of 9% of the outstanding loan. The increase in total cash during the period was primarily from the cash obtained from the Loan, discussed further below, as well as property sales during the period. This increase in cash was partially offset by payments of Allowed Claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases and the daily operations of the Company. On February 9, 2015, TPH Borrower, a newly formed special purpose entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a Loan Agreement pursuant to which the lenders agreed to extend credit to TPH Borrower in the amount of $40 million, subject to increase pursuant to incremental loan facilities up to $50 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The loan bears interest at the greater of the U.S. Prime Rate plus 1.25% or 4.5% and does not amortize prior to maturity. The Loan matures on February 8, 2017, subject to extension until August 8, 2017 under certain circumstances. The collateral for the Loan is the Companys fee interest in the Trinity Place Property and the related air rights owned by the Company with respect to the Trinity Place Property. See Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Loan Payable) for further discussion. The Company had estimated claims liabilities recorded in its consolidated financial statements of approximately $29.0 million and $62.1 million at February 28, 2015 and March 1, 2014, respectively. The claims liability includes the obligation to the former Majority Shareholder of approximately $7.1 million at February 28, 2015 and March 1, 2014 (see Note 13 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Related Party Transactions)), and a liability for the multi-employer pension plan of approximately $4.0 million and $5.3 million at February 28, 2015 and March 1, 2014, respectively, which is payable in quarterly distributions of $0.2 million until completely paid (see Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Pension and Profit Sharing Plans)). The Company believes through cash on hand, monetization of assets, its recent equity and debt financing, along with the possibility of additional equity and/or debt financing, it will have the cash necessary to satisfy its required claims distributions and operating activities as contemplated by the Plan and currently anticipates a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction and the required payment to the former Majority Shareholder will be made in advance of the outside date as described in the Plan. If the Company elects not to, or is unable to sell properties, it will likely need to raise additional capital from the sale of equity and/or loan financings in the next six to twelve months to pursue its business plan. The Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from net cash proceeds realized upon the sale of its properties. As previously discussed, the Companys $5 million corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan has been depleted, primarily due to greater than expected professional fees, and the Company has obtained the consent of the holder of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock who has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, to increase the corporate overhead reserve to $11 million, subject to certain limitations and a reduction of up to approximately $0.8 million if certain anticipated expenses are not incurred. Up to $2.5 million of corporate overhead expenses previously paid by the Company from available cash will count toward and be reimbursed from the increased corporate overhead reserve following receipt of net cash proceeds from future property sales. In addition, during fiscal year 2013, the Company raised $13.0 million, net of $0.5 million in offering costs, from the issuance of stock, which can be used to, among other things, fund overhead and other expenses. Under the Plan, the proceeds of a common equity financing can be used to fund operating expenses in excess of the reserves and for other uses, while the proceeds of a debt financing, following the establishment of reserves, generally must be used to pay approved creditor claims, as defined in the Plan. Pursuant to the Plan, with limited exceptions, any Excess Cash (as defined in the Plan) from property sales not applied to fund operating expenses must be distributed in accordance with the priorities established in the Plan. Consistent with the terms of the Plan, the Company made payments to creditors of $30.0 million during fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 and to creditors and the former Majority Shareholder in the amount of $33.7 million during the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014. 22 Following a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction and the final payment to the former Majority Shareholder, as described above under - Claims Payment Process, the Company will have satisfied its remaining obligations under the Plan and will no longer operate under the terms and restrictions of the Plan. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities totaled $0.1 million for the period from February 10, 2015 through February 28, 2015. The net cash used during this period reflects the net loss of $0.4 million and a decrease of accounts payable and accrued expenses of $0.1 million partially offset by stock based compensation expense of $0.3 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $0.5 million represents certain property and general and administrative expenses that the company has capitalized as part of the properties that are under development. Net Operating Losses The Company believes that its U.S. Federal NOLs as of the emergence date were approximately $162.8 million and believes its U.S. Federal NOLs at February 28, 2015 are approximately $195.0 million. The Company believes that the Rights Offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder that occurred in connection with the Companys emergence from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012 resulted in the Company undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, the Company believes that it should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, the Company currently believes that its NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382. However, if the Company were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, the Companys NOLs could be subject to limitation under Code Section 382. Notwithstanding the above, even if all of the Companys regular U.S. Federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing its Federal NOLs, the Company may still be subject to the U.S. Federal alternative minimum tax and to state, local or other non-Federal income taxes. On February 12, 2015, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to, among other things, add a new provision to the certificate of incorporation intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with the Companys NOLs (the Protective Amendment). The Protective Amendment generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. See Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Basis of Presentation) for additional information. Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The following tables summarize our contractual obligations as of February 28, 2015 (dollars in thousands): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 1 year or less 1-3 years 3-5 years Claims (1) $ 21,950 $ 18,793 $ 1,626 $ 1,531 Former Majority Shareholder (2) 7,066 - 7,066 - Operating lease (3) 750 275 475 - Loan payable (4) 40,000 - 40,000 - TotalContractual Obligations $ 69,766 $ 19,068 $ 49,167 $ 1,531 23 (1) This represents the estimated remaining claims payments the Company expects to make, which includes a claim for the multiemployer pension plan in respect of which payments are made quarterly extending through 2019 as well as $12.7 million of payments made subsequent to the end of the fiscal year. (2) This represents the remaining amount owed to the former Majority Shareholder under the terms of the Plan. This payment will be due sooner conditioned upon a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction having occurred. (3) This represents the operating lease payments for the Companys corporate office in New York, NY. (4) The loan bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the U.S. Prime Rate plus 1.25% or 4.5%. See Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Loan Payable) for further discussion. Change from Liquidation Accounting to Going Concern Accounting In response to the Chapter 11 filing the Company adopted the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. On February 10, 2015, the Company changed its basis of accounting from the liquidation basis to the going concern basis of accounting. Accordingly, the Companys accounting basis for its real estate and trademark assets were adjusted to their net book value at the date the Company entered liquidation, adjusted for depreciation and amortization calculated from the date the Company entered liquidation through the date it emerged from liquidation. This change in accounting basis resulted in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. Critical Accounting Policies under Liquidation Basis of Accounting The Company has identified certain significant accounting policies that have been applied to the Companys financial reporting after the adoption of liquidation basis of accounting. These policies are described below. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon work required for the claims settlement process, changes in market conditions and changes in the strategy surrounding the sale of properties. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. 24 b. Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at estimated net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. c. Income Taxes To the extent that income taxes, including alternate minimum income taxes, are expected to be incurred as a result of the liquidation of the Companys properties, such costs are reflected in accrued expenses. As of February 9, 2015 a total of $1.2 million has been accrued. As part of the process of estimating the amount of income taxes to be incurred during the liquidation period, management has taken into consideration the extent to which net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) are expected to be available to offset the amount of income otherwise taxable on the sale of properties. This involved a process of estimating the extent to which each property had a fair value in excess of its tax basis (a built in gain) as of the date of emerging from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. The Company has analyzed the impact of the change in control that occurred on September 14, 2012 when the Company emerged from bankruptcy could have on its ability to utilize its NOLs. While the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, the Company currently believes that it should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, the Company currently believes that its NOLs are not currently subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382 even though an ownership change (as defined under Code Section 382) occurred on September 14, 2012. However, the Companys NOLs could still become subject to an annual limitation, in the event of an ownership change in the future. Critical Accounting Policies under Going Concern Basis of Accounting As noted above, the Company resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015 and adjusted its assets and liabilities back to its historical cost, adjusted for a catchup of depreciation and amortization during the liquidation period. a. Real Estate - Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. All costs related to the improvement or replacements of real estate properties are capitalized. Additions, renovations and improvements that enhance and/or extend the useful life of a property are also capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance, repairs and improvements that do not materially prolong the normal useful life of an asset are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are determined using the straight-line method over useful lives ranging from 15 to 39 years. b. Real Estate Under Development - The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development and redevelopment of real estate including initial project acquisition costs, pre-construction costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance, construction costs and salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved with the specific project. Additionally, the Company capitalizes interest costs related to development and redevelopment activities. Capitalization of these costs begin when the activities and related expenditures commence, and cease when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity at which time the project is placed in service and depreciation commences. c. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets The Company periodically reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. The Company considers managements strategic plans, significant decreases in the market value of the asset and cash flow and other available information in assessing whether the carrying value of the assets can be recovered. When such events occur, the Company compares the carrying amount of the assets to the undiscounted expected future cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this comparison indicates an impairment, the carrying amount would then be compared to the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. No impairments were recorded during the period from February 10, 2015 to February 28, 2015. 25 d . Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, as required by the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10-30. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. e. Loan Closing Costs - Loan closing costs have been capitalized and are amortized over the term of the loan. f. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable - Leases with tenants are accounted for as operating leases. Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases, beginning when the tenant takes possession of the space. In addition, leases typically provide for the reimbursement to us of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses. These reimbursements are recognized as revenue in the period the expenses are incurred. We make estimates of the uncollectability of our accounts receivable related to tenant revenues. An allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided against certain tenant accounts receivable that are estimated to be uncollectible. Once the amount is ultimately deemed to be uncollectible, it is written off. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Companys consolidated financial statements (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies).