Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a more detailed description of our properties). We continue to evaluate new investment opportunities. We also control a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, a legacy of our predecessor, Syms Corp. (Syms), including our on-line marketplace at FilenesBasement.com, our rights to the Stanley Blacker brand, as well as the intellectual property associated with the Running of the Brides event and An Educated Consumer is Our Best Customer slogan. We also had approximately $234.0 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) at June 30, 2018, which can be used to reduce our future taxable income. Trinity is the successor to Syms, which also owned Filenes Basement. Syms and its subsidiaries filed for relief under the United States Bankruptcy Code in 2011. In September 2012, the Syms Plan of Reorganization (the Plan) became effective and Syms and its subsidiaries consummated their reorganization under Chapter 11 through a series of transactions contemplated by the Plan and emerged from bankruptcy. As part of those transactions, reorganized Syms merged with and into Trinity, with Trinity as the surviving corporation and successor issuer pursuant to Rule 12g-3 under the Exchange Act. On January 18, 2018, Syms and certain of its subsidiaries (together, the Reorganized Debtors) filed with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Bankruptcy Court) a motion (the Motion) for entry of a final decree (the Final Decree) (i) closing the chapter 11 cases of the Reorganized Debtors; (ii) terminating the services of the claims and noticing agent; and (iii) retaining the Bankruptcy Courts jurisdiction as provided for in the Plan, including to enforce or interpret its own orders pertaining to the chapter 11 cases including, but not limited to, the Plan and Final Decree. On the same date, the Reorganized Debtors filed a Final Report in support of the Motion. On February 6, 2018, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Final Decree pursuant to which the chapter 11 cases of the Reorganized Debtors were closed. 7 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and include our financial statements and the financial statements of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial information has been prepared according to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted in accordance with such rules and regulations. Management believes that the disclosures presented in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. In managements opinion, all adjustments and eliminations, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly the financial position and results of operations for the reported periods have been included. The results of operations for such interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial information should be read in conjunction with our December 31, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements, as previously filed with the SEC in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2017 Annual Report), and other public information. a. Principles of Consolidation - The condensed consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our subsidiaries which are wholly-owned or controlled by us. Entities which we do not control through our voting interest and entities which are variable interest entities, but where we are not the primary beneficiary, are accounted for under the equity method. Accordingly, our share of the earnings (losses) of these unconsolidated joint ventures is included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. We consolidate a variable interest entity (the VIE) in which we are considered the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the entity that has (i) the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. We did not have any interests in VIEs at June 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017. We assess the accounting treatment for joint venture investments, which includes a review of the joint venture or limited liability company agreement to determine which party has what rights and whether those rights are protective or participating. For potential VIEs, we review such agreements in order to determine which party has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance. In situations where we and our partner approve, among other things, the annual budget, receive a detailed monthly reporting package, meet on a quarterly basis to review the results of the joint venture, review and approve the joint venture's tax return before filing, and approve all leases that cover more than a nominal amount of space relative to the total rentable space at each property, we do not consolidate the joint venture as we consider these to be substantive participation rights that result in shared power of the activities that most significantly impact the performance of the joint venture. Our joint venture agreements may contain certain protective rights such as requiring partner approval to sell, finance or refinance the property and the payment of capital expenditures and operating expenditures outside of the approved budget or operating plan. 8 b. Investment in Unconsolidated Joint Venture - We account for our investment in our unconsolidated joint venture under the equity method of accounting (see Note 12 - Investment in Our Unconsolidated Joint Venture). We also assess our investment in our unconsolidated joint venture for recoverability, and if it is determined that a loss in value of the investment is other than temporary, we write down the investment to its fair value. We evaluate our equity investment for impairment based on the joint ventures' projected cash flows. We do not believe that the value of our equity investment was impaired at either June 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017. c. Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. d. Reportable Segments - We operate in one reportable segment, commercial real estate. e. Concentrations of Credit Risk - Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents. We hold substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents in banks. Such cash balances at times exceed federally insured limits. We have not experienced any losses in such accounts. f. Real Estate - Real estate assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. All costs related to the improvement or replacement of real estate properties are capitalized. Additions, renovations and improvements that enhance and/or extend the useful life of a property are also capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance, repairs and improvements that do not materially prolong the normal useful life of an asset are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives described in the table below: 9 Category Terms Buildings and improvements 10 - 39 years Tenant improvements Shorter of remaining term of the lease or useful life Furniture and fixtures 5 - 8 years g. Real Estate Under Development - We capitalize certain costs related to the development and redevelopment of real estate including initial project acquisition costs, pre-construction costs and construction costs for each specific property. Additionally, we capitalize operating costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance and compensation and related costs of personnel directly involved with the specific project related to real estate under development. Capitalization of these costs begin when the activities and related expenditures commence, and cease when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity at which time the project is placed in service and depreciation commences. Revenue earned under short-term license agreements at properties under development is offset against these capitalized costs. h. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets - We periodically review long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We consider relevant cash flow, managements strategic plans and significant decreases in the market value of the asset and other available information in assessing whether the carrying value of the assets can be recovered. When such events occur, we compare the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted expected future cash flows, excluding interest charges, from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this comparison indicates an impairment, the carrying amount would then be compared to the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. No provision for impairment was recorded during the six months ended June 30, 2018 or June 30, 2017. i. Trademarks and Customer Lists - Trademarks and customer lists are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is determined using the straight-line method over useful lives of 10 years. j. Fair Value Measurements - We determine fair value in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement, for financial assets and liabilities. This standard defines fair value, provides guidance for measuring fair value and requires certain disclosures. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. These valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. 10 Assets and liabilities disclosed at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. Hierarchical levels, which are defined by ASC 820-10-35, are directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities. Determining which category an asset or liability falls within the hierarchy requires significant judgment and we evaluate our hierarchy disclosures each quarter. Level 1 - Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 - Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting managements own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. k. Cash and Cash Equivalents - Cash and cash equivalents include securities with original maturities of three months or less when purchased. l. Restricted Cash - Restricted cash represents amounts required to be restricted under our loan agreements and secured line of credit (see Note 5 - Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit), tenant related security deposits and deposits on property acquisitions. m. Revenue Recognition - Leases with tenants are accounted for as operating leases. Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases, beginning when the tenant takes possession of the space. The excess of rents recognized over amounts contractually due pursuant to the underlying leases are included in deferred rents receivable. In addition, leases typically provide for the reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses. These reimbursements are recognized as revenue in the period the expenses are incurred. We make estimates of the collectability of our accounts receivable related to tenant revenues. An allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided against certain tenant accounts receivable that are estimated to be uncollectible. Once the amount is ultimately deemed to be uncollectible, it is written off. n. Stock-Based Compensation We have granted stock-based compensation, which is described in Note 11 Stock-Based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, which establishes accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services. Under the provisions of ASC 718-10-35, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award on that date, and is expensed at the grant date (for the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the respective vesting periods. 11 o. Income Taxes - We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method as required by the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. ASC 740-10-65 addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under ASC 740-10-65, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. ASC 740-10-65 also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and requires increased disclosures. As of both June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had determined that no liabilities are required in connection with unrecognized tax positions. As of June 30, 2018, our tax returns for the prior three years are subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law P.L. 115-97, commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act). The Act modifies several provisions of the Internal Revenue Code related to corporations, including a permanent corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. The impact of the adoption of the Act is disclosed in Note 9 Income Taxes. We are subject to certain federal, state, local and franchise taxes. p. Earnings (loss) Per Share - We present both basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share. Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock, where such exercise or conversion would result in a lower per share amount. Shares issuable under restricted stock units that have vested but not yet settled were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the awards would have been antidilutive for the periods presented. q. Deferred Finance Costs Deferred finance costs represent commitment fees, legal, title and other third party costs associated with obtaining commitments for mortgage financing which result in a closing of such financing. These costs are being offset against loans payable in the condensed consolidated balance sheets for mortgage financings and are included in other assets for our secured line of credit. These costs are amortized over the terms of the related financing arrangements. Unamortized deferred finance costs are expensed when the associated debt is refinanced or repaid before maturity. Costs incurred in seeking financing transactions which do not close are expensed in the period in which it is determined that the financing will not close. 12 r. Deferred Lease Costs Deferred lease costs consist of fees and direct costs incurred to initiate and renew operating leases and are amortized to depreciation and amortization on a straight-line basis over the related lease term. s. Underwriting Commissions and Costs Underwriting commissions and costs incurred in connection with our stock offerings are reflected as a reduction of additional paid-in-capital in stockholders equity. t. Reclassifications - Certain prior year financial statement amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities. The amendments in the new standard will permit more flexibility in hedging interest rate risk for both variable rate and fixed rate financial instruments and better align a companys financial reporting for hedging activities with the economic objectives of those activities. The standard will also enhance the presentation of hedge results in the financial statements. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. We have not yet adopted the guidance, and do not expect a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows when the new standard is implemented. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Scope of Modification Accounting. The guidance clarifies the changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award that require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC 718. The adoption of this guidance, effective January 1, 2018, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In February 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-05, Other Income-Gains and Losses from the De-recognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20), to add guidance for partial sales of nonfinancial assets, including partial sales of real estate, eliminate rules specifically addressing sales of real estate, remove exceptions to the financial asset de-recognition model, and clarifies the accounting for contributions of nonfinancial assets to joint ventures. Historically, GAAP contained several different accounting models to evaluate whether the transfer of certain assets qualified for sale treatment. ASU 2017-05 reduces the number of potential accounting models that might apply and clarifies which model does apply in various circumstances. The adoption of this guidance, effective January 1, 2018, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business. The guidance clarifies the definition of a business and provides guidance to assist with determining whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. The main provision is that an acquiree is not a business if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of assets. Upon the adoption of ASU No. 2017-01, we evaluated each acquisition of real estate or in-substance real estate to determine if the integrated set of assets and activities acquired meet the definition of a business and need to be accounted as a business combination. 13 Generally, we expect that acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate will not meet the revised definition of a business because substantially all of the fair value is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets (i.e. land, buildings, and related intangible assets) or because the acquisition does not include a substantive process in the form of an acquired workforce or an acquired contract that cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort or delay. The adoption of this guidance, effective January 1, 2018, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. The guidance requires entities to show the changes on the total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between these items on the statement of cash flows. The adoption of this guidance, effective January 1, 2018, resulted in a restatement of our statement of cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2017, for comparative purposes. This resulted in a reduction of $0.7 million in net cash used in operating activities from $3.9 million to $3.2 million. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (A Consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). ASU 2016-15 provides final guidance on eight cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, distributions received from equity method investees, separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle, and others. The adoption of this guidance, effective January 1, 2018, did not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. ASU 2016-02 outlines a new model for accounting by lessees, whereby their rights and obligations under substantially all leases, existing and new, would be capitalized and recorded on the balance sheet. For lessors, however, the accounting remains largely unchanged from the current model, with the distinction between operating and financing leases retained, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model and the new revenue recognition standard discussed above. As lessee, we are party to various office leases with future payment obligations aggregating approximately $3.1 million at June 30, 2018 (see Note 8 - Commitments) for which we expect to record right of use assets and corresponding lease liabilities upon adoption of ASU 2016-02. The new guidance also requires that internal leasing costs be expensed as incurred, as opposed to capitalized and deferred. We currently do not capitalize internal leasing costs. ASU 2016-02 will also require extensive