Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources, for additional discussion). Certain Historical Financial Information Syms changed its basis of accounting from the going concern basis to the liquidation basis of accounting effective October 30, 2011 and merged into Trinity on September 14, 2012. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. 5 Sold Properties Certain information about the Companys properties as of May 30, 2014 is set forth in Item 2 Properties. Certain information about the properties of the Company that have been sold, including the net proceeds generated by the sold properties, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, are set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Miami, FL Short term property 53,000 $ 4.1 September, 2012 Houston, TX Short term property 42,000 $ 3.6 November, 2012 Fairfield, CT Short term property 43,000 $ 5.5 December, 2012 Secaucus, NJ (Condo) Short term property 2,000 $ 0.3 January, 2013 Southfield, MI Short term property 60,000 $ 2.5 April, 2013 Marietta, GA Short term property 77,000 $ 2.9 July, 2013 Ft. Lauderdale, FL Short term property 55,000 $ 1.9 August, 2013 Elmsford, NY Medium term property 59,000 $ 22.0 August, 2013 Cherry Hill, NJ Short term property 150,000 $ 4.5 September, 2013 Addison, IL Short term property 68,000 $ 1.9 December, 2013 Norcross, GA Short term property 69,000 $ 1.1 February, 2014 Berwyn, PA Short term property 69,000 $ 3.0 April, 2014 Secaucus, NJ (1) Short term property 340,000 $ 28.0 May, 2014 Total 1,087,000 $ 81.3 (1) On May 20, 2014, the Company closed on the sale of the Secaucus Lease to ASG. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for additional information . Brokerage Agreements The Company has engaged commercial real estate brokers to coordinate the sale and/or rental of its remaining properties, other than the Trinity Place Property. While terms may vary, the agreements generally provide for commissions ranging from 1% to 5% of the sale price in the case of sales, and 2% to 6% of the base rent on the primary term in the case of rentals, payable only upon closing of a sale transaction or execution of a lease agreement, as applicable. Competition The markets in which the Companys properties are located are inherently competitive. In some of these markets, principally the smaller markets, the Company expects there may be more limited buyer or tenant prospects for the Companys property, while larger markets may in general offer more attractive supply and demand characteristics to the Company. Competitive factors with respect to the Companys Trinity Place Property may have a more material effect on the Company as it is likely the Companys most valuable real estate asset. Various municipal entities are making and have indicated an intent to continue to make significant investments in the immediate vicinity of the Trinity Place Property in order to continue to support the growth of the neighborhood as a vibrant 24/7 community to work, visit and live. Several privately funded commercial and residential developments are being built or are proposed to take advantage of the increasing desirability of the neighborhood. The impact of these changing supply and demand characteristics is uncertain, and they could positively or negatively impact the Companys evolving plan to maximize the value of its Trinity Place Property. 6 Environmental Compliance Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owners ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopment projects that a potential purchaser would want to undertake with respect to any particular parcel of real estate owned by the Company. Such laws, ordinances and regulations also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership and management of certain properties, the Company could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or related claims. Based on a 2012 Phase 1 Environmental Assessment for the Trinity Place Property, the following conditions were noted for further investigation: an underground storage tank, asbestos containing materials and lead based paint. The Company estimates it will incur a minimum of $0.5 million to $0.75 million in fees and abatement related to the Trinity Place Property. The Company estimates that it will incur approximately $0.1 million in fees for Phase 1, Phase 2 and asbestos studies when selling its remaining properties. Employees As of March 1, 2014, the Company had approximately ten full time employees staffed in management, accounting, administration and information technology capacities. General Information about Syms and Trinity Syms was incorporated in New Jersey in 1983. Trinity was incorporated in Delaware immediately prior to the effective date of the Plan. Syms maintained its headquarters at One Syms Way, Secaucus, New Jersey 07094, and the telephone number was (201) 902-9600. Trinity is currently using the same headquarters and telephone number pursuant to a short term lease following the recent sale of the Secaucus Lease and will move its headquarters to midtown Manhattan in June 2014. Available Information The Company makes available on its website at www.tphs.com under Financials free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such materials with, or furnishes such materials to, the SEC. On the website, the Company also offers a link to all of the Companys SEC filings and to all beneficial ownership reports filed by the Companys directors and executive officers, via the SECs EDGAR filing system. 7 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Below is certain information regarding the Companys commercial real estate properties remaining at May 30, 2014, all of which are former sites of Syms or Filenes retail facilities. Each property is owned in fee. Near term properties and medium term properties have the meanings given them under the Plan. Near Term Properties Total Square Property Location Feet West Palm Beach, FL 112,000 Williamsville, NY 102,000 Total 214,000 Medium Term Properties Total Square Property Location Feet Paramus, NJ 77,000 Westbury, NY 92,000 Total 169,000 The Trinity Place Property consists of a vacant 6-story commercial building of 57,000 square feet, yielding approximately 174,000 square feet of zoning floor area as-of-right. The Company also has ownership of approximately 60,000 square feet of development rights from adjacent tax lots, one of which is owned in fee by the Company which is improved with a 4-story landmark building which cannot be demolished. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is a party to routine legal proceedings, which are primarily incidental to its former business. Some of the actions to which the Company is a party are covered by insurance and are being defended or reimbursed by the Companys insurance carriers. Additionally, as discussed in Item 1, the Company operates under the Plan that was approved in connection with the resolution of the Chapter 11 cases involving Syms and its subsidiaries. On May 8, 2012, the Company filed a motion with the Court for the entry of an order by the Court approving the Companys assumption of the lease for the property located at One Syms Way, Secaucus, New Jersey. The landlord asserted a cure claim of approximately $3.5 million, plus attorneys fees and costs. The Company contested all but approximately $5,000 of that amount. On February 19, 2013, the Court ruled that the cure claim should be reduced and allowed at approximately $1.25 million, but reserved ruling on the claims for attorneys fees and a relatively minor rent issue. Based on an agreement with the landlord in July 2013, the Company established a reserve of $1.25 million for the potential payment of cure claims associated with assumption of the lease, which reserve had been accrued as a liability as of March 2, 2013. 8 On March 24, 2014, the Company filed a motion to assume, assign, and sell the Secaucus Lease to ASG, which offer was subsequently increased by ASG Equities Secaucus LLC (ASG) to $29 million plus the release of the cure claims reserve held by the Company on account of a dispute with the Companys landlord (the ASG Motion). As a result of the ASG Motion, the liability was removed as of March 1, 2014. On April 29, 2014, over the objection of the Companys landlord, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Companys decision to assume, assign, and sell the Secaucus Lease to ASG, as the highest and best offer for the Secaucus Lease (the Approval Order), subject to certain conditions. On April 30, 2014, the landlord filed a motion requesting the Bankruptcy Court to reconsider the Approval Order . Following additional negotiations, the Company, the landlord, and ASG settled the landlords objections to the Approval Order. As a consequence, on May 16, 2014, the Bankruptcy Court entered an amended Approval Order (the Amended Approval Order) approving the settlement and the sale of the Secaucus Lease to ASG. Pursuant to the Amended Approval Order, the sale of the Secaucus Lease to ASG closed on May 20, 2014. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys Common Stock is quoted in the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. Prior to the conclusion of the Chapter 11 cases in the third quarter of the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013, the trading symbol of the Companys Common Stock was SYMSQ, after which it was changed to TPHS. The following table summarizes the quarterly high and low bid quotations prices per share of the Common Stock as reported in the OTCQB for the periods provided. The OTCQB quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. The quotations during the first and second quarters of the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013 are for periods prior to the conclusion of the chapter 11 cases. Fiscal Year Ended March 1, 2014 Fiscal Year Ended March 2, 2013 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 5.75 $ 4.15 $ 11.25 $ 8.95 Second Quarter $ 5.50 $ 4.15 $ 9.10 $ 2.60 Third Quarter $ 5.75 $ 3.62 $ 4.45 $ 2.91 Fourth Quarter $ 7.20 $ 5.25 $ 5.45 $ 4.04 Holders As of May 30, 2014, there were approximately 358 record holders of the Companys Common Stock. Dividends No dividends were paid in fiscal 2013 or 2012. The payment of any dividends on the Common Stock is strictly limited by the terms of the Plan, and the Company has no intention of and is unable to pay dividends to the holders of Common Stock until at least such time as the Companys distribution obligations under the Plan have been satisfied. 9 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities From January 2014 through April 2014, the Company granted an aggregate of 76,000 restricted stock units to four employees of the Company. These grants were undertaken in reliance upon the exemption from registration requirements available under Rule 701 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). Repurchases There were no repurchases by the Company of its equity securities in fiscal 2013. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report, including but not limited to factors discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used in this Annual Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others, the restrictions contained in the Plan, the influence of certain majority stockholders, the ability of the Company to lease, renew leases or relet space in its properties, competition in the real estate business, the ability of the Company to comply with environmental or other laws, the risk of potential uninsured losses and/or claims, asset values, the outcome of litigation, general economic and market conditions, higher than anticipated costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control or that are not currently known to the Company. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those contemplated by any forward looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Annual Report and other reports filed with the SEC. Liquidation Basis of Accounting Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. The Company does not believe it would qualify for fresh start accounting if it were to emerge from liquidation. Under fresh-start accounting, assets and liabilities are adjusted to fair value. Since fresh-start accounting would likely not apply if the company were to emerge from liquidation, the Companys accounting basis could revert back to the going concern basis of accounting, resulting in all remaining assets and liabilities at that date being adjusted to their net book value less an adjustment for depreciation and / or amortization calculated from the date the Company entered liquidation through the date it emerged from liquidation. Accordingly, if a change in accounting basis were to occur, it would likely result in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. The Company can provide no guarantee that it will emerge from liquidation as a going concern entity, nor can it guarantee the method of accounting that would be adopted upon emergence from liquidation. 10 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. The Company has identified certain significant accounting policies that have been applied to the Companys financial reporting after the adoption of liquidation basis of accounting. These policies are described below. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon work required for the claims settlement process, changes in market conditions and changes in the strategy surrounding the sale of properties. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. b. Pension Expense The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared annually to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plans. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plans may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at estimated net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. 11 d. Income Taxes To the extent that income taxes, including alternate minimum income taxes, are expected to be incurred as a result of the liquidation of the Companys properties, such costs are reflected in accrued expenses. As of March 1, 2014 a total of $1.2 million has been accrued. As part of the process of estimating the amount of income taxes to be incurred during the liquidation period, management has taken into consideration the extent to which net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) are expected to be available to offset the amount of income otherwise taxable on the sale of properties. This involved a process of estimating the extent to which each property had a fair value in excess of its tax basis (a built in gain) as of the date of emerging from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. The Company has analyzed the impact of the change in control that occurred on September 14, 2012 when the Company emerged from bankruptcy could have on its ability to utilize its NOLs. While the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, the Company currently believes that it should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). As a result, the Company currently believes that its NOLs are not currently subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382 even though an ownership change (as defined under Code Section 382) occurred on September 14, 2012. However, if the Company were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, the Companys NOLs could be subject to limitation under Code Section 382. Results of Operations For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at estimated settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports changes in estimated fair value and other adjustments recognized during the fiscal year. Operating Activities for the Twelve Months Ended March 1, 2014 Certain information about the properties of the Company sold during fiscal 2013, including the proceeds generated, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, is set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Southfield, MI Short term property 60,000 $ 2.5 April, 2013 Marietta, GA Short term property 77,000 $ 2.9 July, 2013 Ft. Lauderdale, FL Short term property 55,000 $ 1.9 August, 2013 Elmsford, NY Medium term property 59,000 $ 22.0 August, 2013 Cherry Hill, NJ Short term property 150,000 $ 4.5 September, 2013 Addison, IL Short term property 68,000 $ 1.9 December, 2013 Norcross, GA Short term property 69,000 $ 1.1 February, 2014 Total 538,000 $ 36.8 The liquidation basis of accounting requires management to make significant estimates and judgments. The Company adjusts its real estate assets to reflect the estimated net realizable value of the owned property. The net realizable value is estimated, by considering a number of factors and the views of multiple parties from various vantage points, including input from a third party valuation expert. As a result of an aggregate increase in certain properties values by $53.7 million partially offset by the above sales transactions, the value of the Companys real estate assets increased from $142.6 million as of March 2, 2013 to $157.7 million as of March 1, 2014. During the same twelve-month period, the Company used the aggregate net proceeds from asset sales to pay $33.7 million of allowed claims and the former Majority Shareholder in accordance with the terms of the Plan, reducing the Companys liabilities under the Plan. 12 In addition to the sale transactions, the Company received an additional $0.9 million in rents and other income during the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014. Subsequent to March 1, 2014, the Company sold the Berwyn, Pennsylvania property for net proceeds of approximately $3.0 million and sold the Secaucus Lease for net proceeds of approximately $28.0 million plus the release of a reserve held by the Company on account of a dispute with the Companys landlord. The Companys cash operating costs and expenses for the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014 were approximately $16.4 million, of which approximately $10.0 million pertained to real estate related costs, $3.9 million related to professional fees, $2.2 million related to payroll costs and $0.3 million related to other expenditures. As previously noted, overhead expenses have exceeded the original projections and are outpacing the budgeted reserves, primarily due to professional fees; however the Company has obtained the consent of its Series A stockholder to an increase in operating reserves. As of March 1, 2014, the net assets of the Company available to Common Shareholders was $88.5 million, an increase from $24.8 million as of March 2, 2013, primarily due to an increase in the estimated fair value of the Companys real estate properties of $53.7 million, the $13.0 million cash raised net of $0.5 million offering costs from the issuance of stock to Third Avenue Trust (Third Avenue), and a decrease in the estimated claims distributions. Total assets increased from $159.1 million at the end of fiscal 2012 to $175.4 million at the end of fiscal 2013 primarily as a result of updated real estate values, net of realized sales, and liabilities decreased approximately $47.4 million primarily as a result of payments made in accordance with the Plan. The capital raised during the year ended March 1, 2014 from the stock sale provided the Company with additional liquidity necessary to satisfy obligations during the end of fiscal 2013. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services in order to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the remaining liquidation period. Operating Activities for the Twelve Months Ended March 2, 2013 Certain information about the properties of the Company sold during fiscal 2012, including the proceeds generated, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, is set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Miami, FL Short term property 53,000 $ 4.1 September, 2012 Houston, TX Short term property 42,000 $ 3.6 November, 2012 Fairfield, CT Short term property 43,000 $ 5.5 December, 2012 Secaucus, NJ (Condo) Short term property 2,000 $ 0.3 January, 2013 Total 140,000 $ 13.5 During December 2012, the Company received a $0.9 million settlement on its Marietta, GA location. This was the result of the second and final payment regarding the 2011 partial condemnation. 13 During December 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to lease its unoccupied space at its Elmsford, NY property. The carrying value of this property as of March 2, 2013 was adjusted to reflect the impact of this transaction. In addition to the above transactions, the Company received an additional $2.9 million in rents and other income during the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013, $1.1 million of which was received after September 14, 2012. The Companys operating costs and expenses in the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013 were $19.9 million, with $8.1 million of that amount incurred after September 14, 2012. Overhead expenses during the period exceeded the original projections and outpaced the budgeted reserves, primarily due to professional fees. As of March 2, 2013, the net assets of the Company available to Common Shareholders was $24.8 million, up from $21.2 million as of February 25, 2012, primarily due to an increase in the estimated fair value of the Companys real estate properties and a decrease in the estimated claims distributions partially offset by a reduction of $12.9 million in the amount of cash and cash equivalents, which was spent on the prosecution of the Plan and the Companys operating expenses, and the inclusion of the Companys obligation to pay $17.8 million to the former Majority Shareholder in exchange for its shares in Syms. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 1, 2014 and March 2, 2013, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $9.7 million and $8.4 million, respectively. At March 1, 2014 and March 2, 2013, the Companys restricted cash of $5.6 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Prior to September 14, 2012, the Company used its cash and cash equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations. After September 14, 2012, the Company has used its cash and equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees and claims related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations and to fund reserves under the Plan. On October 1, 2013, the Company entered into the Stock Purchase Agreement with Third Avenue pursuant to which the Company sold to Third Avenue 3,369,444 shares of the Companys common stock for $13.5 million, or $4.00 per share. Upon the effectiveness of an amended and restated certificate of incorporation that was approved by a majority of the Companys stockholders, one share of special stock, par value $.01, was issued and sold to Third Avenue for the par value of such share. The share of special stock enables Third Avenue or its affiliated designee to elect one member of the Board of Directors. The sale of shares of the common stock and the share of special stock were made in private placement transactions exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company believes that it would be able to fund its operations through net cash proceeds from property sales; however, the Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from such net cash proceeds. As previously discussed, the Companys $5 million corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan has been depleted, primarily due to greater than expected professional fees, and the Company has obtained the consent of the holder of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock, who has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, to increase the corporate overhead reserve to $11 million, subject to certain limitations and a reduction of up to approximately $0.8 million if certain anticipated expenses are not incurred. Up to $2.5 million of corporate overhead expenses previously paid by the Company from generally available cash will count toward and be reimbursed from the increased corporate overhead reserve following receipt of net cash proceeds from future property sales. In addition, during fiscal 2013, the Company raised $13.0 million, net of $0.5 million in offering costs, from the issuance of stock (as previously discussed), which can be used to fund overhead and other expenses. The Company believes through the sale of its assets and cash on hand, along with the possibility of additional equity and/or debt financing, it has the cash necessary to satisfy its required claims distributions and operating activities. 14 Under the Plan, the proceeds of a common equity financing can be used to fund operating expenses in excess of the reserves and for other uses, while the proceeds of a debt financing generally must be used to pay creditor claims. Pursuant to the Plan, with limited exceptions, any excess cash from property sales not applied to fund operating expenses must be distributed in accordance with the priorities established in the Plan. The payments to creditors and the former Majority Shareholder during the year ended March 1, 2014 aggregating $33.7 million were made pursuant to the Plan. Net Operating Losses The Company believes that the Rights Offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder that occurred in connection with the Companys emergence from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012 resulted in the Company undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). However, the Company has analyzed the impact of such ownership change on its ability to utilize its NOLs, and while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, the Company currently believes that it should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, the Company currently believes that its NOLs are not currently subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382. However, if the Company were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, the Companys NOLs could be subject to limitation under Code Section 382. The Company believes that its U.S. Federal NOLs as of the emergence date were approximately $162.8 million and believes its U.S. Federal NOLs at March 1, 2014 are approximately $193.7 million. Notwithstanding the above, even if all of the Companys regular U.S. Federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing its NOLs, the Company may still be subject to the U.S. Federal alternative minimum tax (which imposes a tax generally equal to the amount by which 20% of a corporations alternative minimum taxable income exceeds the corporations regular tax liability, and is calculated in a manner that may reduce the benefit of NOLs) and to state, local or other non-federal income taxes.