Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. 3 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price has been and will continue to be materially adversely impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19 and such impact could continue to be material. The impact of the outbreak of COVID-19 on our results and operations has been and will continue to be significant. The extent of the impact going forward will largely depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the severity and duration of the outbreak, in New York City in particular, the success of actions taken to contain or treat COVID-19, actions taken by governmental entities, companies and individuals in response to the pandemic and reactions to such actions, the impact on local and broader economic activity and capital markets and new information with respect to the foregoing and other aspects of COVID-19. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact the Companys business, operations and financial results in the future will depend on numerous evolving factors that the Company is not able to predict, including, but not limited to, the impact on sales of residential condominium units at our most significant asset, 77 Greenwich, which has been material, the impact on the timeline for construction of 77 Greenwich and completion of the remediation and restoration project at 237 11 th ; the impact on the timing of the 237 11 th litigation due to backlog in the New York City court system and the slowdown in judicial proceedings, and the receipt of any payments we may receive in connection with the litigation; our ability to obtain maturity extensions and covenant modifications on acceptable terms; increased operating costs related to cleaning and disinfecting our properties; the effect of the pandemic on the Companys tenants and their ability to make rental payments; and the effect of the eviction moratorium (in effect from March 2020 through May 1, 2021, subject to further extension) imposed by New York State and the impact of decisions of the NYC Rent Guidelines Board on our ability to raise rents. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm covering our December 31, 2020 consolidated financial statements contains a paragraph entitled Going Concern Uncertainty that states that the maturity of our 237 11 th and 77 Greenwich mortgage loans in June 2021 and January 2022, respectively, for which there can be no assurance of refinance or extended maturity, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Although we believe we have good relations with our lenders and have seen indications of recovery in the financing markets and the New York City real estate market, including significant early interest in refinancing the two loans, and we anticipate that we will be able to refinance, extend or amend or obtain waivers as needed with respect to the loans, or enter into other financing arrangements sufficient to fund any cash needs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on terms satisfactory to us, if at all, and any defaults may result in cross-defaults under our Corporate Credit Facility. These developments and events have and will continue to adversely impact the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price, which has been and is anticipated to continue to be material. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources COVID-19 Pandemic, Liquidity and Going Concern for further information. We have not generated an operating profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long-term viability cannot be assured. Since our formation, we have generated limited revenues and had negative cash flow from operations. The development of our business plan has required, and will continue to require, substantial capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities. We have limited cash resources, generate minimal revenues from operations, and are reliant on external sources of capital to fund ongoing operations. Our revenue generating activities have not yet produced sufficient funds for profitable operations. In addition, we are required to set aside specified minimum levels of liquidity, inclusive of cash and line of credit capacity, in connection with the development and financing of 77 Greenwich, subject to release in certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2020, this amount was $10.0 million. As a result, these amounts are not available for investment or operating activities. Accordingly, our continued operation will be dependent upon the success of future operations and will require raising additional capital on acceptable terms. We have relied and will continue to rely substantially upon equity and debt financing to fund our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of capital will be available to us on commercially favorable terms should our capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing 4 Table of Contents cash and cash equivalents. In addition, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, because of a low stock price, unfavorable market conditions, or otherwise, could affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. If we are unable to raise capital on market terms, our ability to grow through new acquisitions and investments, and thus become profitable, could be materially adversely impacted. A significant part of our current business plan is focused on the development of 77 Greenwich, and an inability to execute this business plan due to adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business plan includes the development or redevelopment of our legacy commercial real estate properties and in particular the development of 77 Greenwich, which currently is our largest asset. As a result, our revenues and future growth are heavily dependent on the success of implementing our business plan for 77 Greenwich, which is currently under development. Our plans for 77 Greenwich call for 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, in addition to a retail condominium unit and a New York City elementary school condominium unit. A variety of factors determine New York City residential condominium trends and will ultimately impact the sales and pricing of the residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich. These factors include, among others, available supply, changes in interest rates, the availability of home mortgages, foreign exchange rates, foreign buyer patterns, local employment trends, and prices and velocity of sales. Sales of residential condominium units in general, and in particular in New York City, have historically experienced greater volatility than detached single family houses, which may expose us to more risk. These and other factors fluctuate over time. Based on a number of reports, there is a historically high number of unsold units in newly constructed luxury residential condominiums in New York City, which has resulted in demand and pricing pressures. When we commenced sales in the spring of 2019, the New York City market was in a period of softness, in particular downtown Manhattan. This was exacerbated by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to current market conditions in New York City, several competing residential condominium projects located in downtown Manhattan, specifically in the Financial District, have been put on hold. The status of unsold residential condominium units in 2021 and beyond is inherently uncertain. Closings on sales are currently anticipated to occur toward the end of 2021. An inability to successfully execute our business plan with respect to 77 Greenwich would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to leverage at both our parent company and our subsidiaries and face risks generally associated with our debt, including an increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in furtherance of our activities, at both the parent company level and subsidiary level, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that we may fail to repay or refinance existing debt as it matures, which may result in forced disposition of assets on disadvantageous terms or have other adverse consequences, and the risk that if we refinance any of our debt, we may do so on refinancing terms less favorable than the terms of our existing debt. All of our properties secure loans. The failure by our borrower subsidiaries to make scheduled repayments under the loan agreements, or the default of any of the obligations under the loans, would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the applicable subsidiary may be required to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the respective loan and the lenders may exercise other remedies available to them, including foreclosing on the respective property securing the loan. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements, for further discussion regarding our financing activities. 5 Table of Contents Covenants in our loan agreements could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our loan documents contain a number of financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on debt, liens, business activities, equity repurchases, distributions and dividends, disposition of assets and transactions with affiliates, as well as financial covenants regarding corporate loan to value, net worth and liquidity. These covenants may limit our flexibility to pursue certain acquisitions or investments or incur additional debt. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements and our indebtedness could be declared due and payable. In addition, our lenders could terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their interests against existing collateral. If we were to default under our loan agreements, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Investment returns from 77 Greenwich and other properties we may acquire and/or develop may be less than anticipated. Our development of 77 Greenwich and other properties we acquire and/or develop are exposed to risks, including the following: we may sell condominium units at 77 Greenwich and other acquired or developed properties at prices, and/or lease commercial and residential properties at current or future properties, that are less than the prices projected at the time we decide to undertake the acquisition or development; the velocity of leasing at commercial and residential properties, and/or condominium sales at future acquisition or developed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; and operating expenses and real estate taxes may be greater than projected at the time of acquisition or development, resulting in our investment being less profitable than we expected. Our investment in property development for 77 Greenwich and other properties may be more costly than anticipated. We intend to continue to develop or redevelop our current and future properties. Our current and future development and construction activities, including with respect to 77 Greenwich, may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to proceed with the development of properties other than 77 Greenwich because we cannot obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all; we may incur construction costs for a development project that exceed our original estimates due to increases in interest rates, increased materials, labor, leasing or other costs, and increases in unforeseen costs such as those related to COVID-19, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents or condominium unit sales prices, as applicable, may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project; we may abandon development opportunities after we begin to explore them and as a result we may lose deposits or fail to recover expenses already incurred; we may expend funds on and devote managements time to projects which we do not complete; we may be unable to complete construction and/or leasing of our rental properties and sales of our condominium projects (currently limited to 77 Greenwich) on schedule, or at all; and 6 Table of Contents we may suspend development projects after construction has begun due to changes in economic conditions or other factors, and this may result in the write-off of costs, payment of additional costs or increases in overall costs when the development project is restarted. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in and owning leasable real estate in connection with our existing retail and residential properties and new properties or investments in leasable real estate. These risks include the ability to secure leases with new tenants, renew leases with existing tenants, the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove or certain upgrades that may be needed should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenants quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation, and potentially, as occurred at 237 11 th , damages arising from defective construction. The occurrence of any of these events, particularly with respect to leases at our commercial real estate property, or issues that affect numerous residential units, could adversely impact, and in the case of 237 11 th , has adversely impacted, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if our competitors offer space at net effective rental rates below our current net effective rates or market rates, we may lose current or potential tenants to other properties in our markets. Additionally, we may need to reduce net effective rental rates below our current rates or offer incentives in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their leases or to attract new tenants. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected as a result of these factors. We may be unable to lease vacant space, renew our current leases, or re-lease space as our current leases expire. Leases at our properties may not be renewed or such properties may not be re-leased at favorable rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, including vacant space resulting from the remediation of damaged units, tenant defaults or space that is currently unoccupied, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources than we have that compete with us in seeking tenants who we desire to lease space in our properties. The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of the major tenants at our commercial real estate properties that causes them to reject their leases, or to not renew their leases as they expire, or renew at lower rental rates, may adversely affect our cash flows and property values. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, direct mail and telemarketing, which could reduce rents payable to us and reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties leading to increased vacancy rates at our properties. In addition, if we are unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. We may acquire properties subject to known and unknown liabilities and with limited or no recourse to the seller. Properties we acquire may be subject to known or unknown liabilities with no or minimal recourse to the seller. As a result, if a property is damaged, we may need to pay to have it repaired, and our ability to recover any such payments through insurance, indemnities, litigation or otherwise is uncertain. We have purchased one property subject to unknown construction defects due to water penetration in the walls, 237 11 th , and there can be no assurance that we will not do so again. During the pendency of repairs, units were unable to be leased, and following completion of repairs, they need to be re-leased. Also, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of a property, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for repair of damaged properties or faulty construction; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; 7 Table of Contents liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination and/or repair or other remediation of construction defects. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our cash flow, even if some or all of the costs are ultimately borne by a third party, and the impact could be material. Multi-family residential properties may be subject to rent stabilization regulations, which limit our ability to raise rents above specified maximum amounts and could give rise to claims by tenants that their rents exceed such specified maximum amounts. The Rent Stabilization Law and Code imposes rent control or rent stabilization on certain apartment buildings. The rent stabilization regulations applicable to our multi-family residential properties set maximum rates for annual rent increases, entitle our tenants to receive required services from us and entitle our tenants to have their leases renewed. The limitations established by present or future rent stabilization regulations may impair our ability to maintain rents at market levels at properties subject to such regulations. Pursuant to the Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019, which is a set of New York State laws, vacancy lease increases were eliminated, whereby the landlord was permitted to increase the rent by as much as 20% for a tenant moving into a vacant apartment, to which significant increases in rent for New York City properties were historically attributed. With respect to certain types of properties in New York City, solely by virtue of the real estate tax exemption under RPTL Section 421-a, the Rent Guidelines Board of New York City, approves renewal lease rent increases. In each of 2018 and 2019, the Rent Guidelines Board approved a 1.5% increase on 12-month lease renewals and a 2.5% increase on 24-month lease renewals. In 2020, the Rent Guidelines Board approved no increase on 12-month lease renewals and no increase for the first year and a 1% increase for the second year of 24-month renewals. The application of rent stabilization to apartments in our multi-family residential properties will limit the amount of rent we are able to collect, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fully take advantage of the investments that we are making in our properties. In addition, there can be no assurances that changes to rent stabilization laws will not have a similar or greater negative impact on our ability to collect rents. There is a proposed New York State bill (Good Cause Eviction), which, if passed may impose restrictions on rent increases and the right not to renew market rate unit leases. If passed, there will be restrictions on an owners ability to grow their market rents. Competition for new acquisitions and investments may reduce the number of opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions and investments. We will face competition for acquisition and investment opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage. This competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, many of whom have greater resources than us, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for the acquisition of such property. If we are unable to successfully acquire or invest in additional properties, our ability to grow our business would be adversely affected. In addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We face risks associated with acquisitions of and investments in new properties. We may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including potentially large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. Our acquisition and investment activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to finance acquisitions, investments and developments of properties, including with respect to raising capital to contribute as equity, on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to complete proposed acquisitions or other transactions due to an inability to meet required closing conditions; we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, opportunities which we do not complete, which may include non-refundable deposits; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms as contemplated as part of our underwriting; properties that we acquire or in which we invest may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, investments and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks associated with joint ventures. We formed joint ventures with third parties to acquire and operate The Berkley and the 250 North 10 th property, both located in Brooklyn, New York. We may become involved in additional joint ventures in the future with respect to current or future properties. Joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made or owned solely by us, including the possibility that our joint venture partner might become bankrupt, or may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture, activities conducted by a partner that have a negative impact on the joint venture or us, and disputes with our partner. Also, although our debt documents contain certain restrictions, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of our funds that may be invested in joint ventures. The potential phasing out of LIBOR after 2021 may affect our financial results. The chief executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"), which regulates LIBOR, has announced that the FCA intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The U.S. Dollar Libor will continue to be published until 2023. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes or the establishment of alternative reference rates. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee ("ARRC"), a committee convened by the Federal Reserve that includes major market participants, and on which the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff and other regulators participate, has proposed an alternative rate, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), to replace U.S. Dollar LIBOR. Any changes announced by the FCA, ARRC, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which U.S. Dollar LIBOR, SOFR, or any other alternative rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported LIBOR rates. If that were to occur, the levels of interest payments we incur and interest payments we receive may change. It is also uncertain whether SOFR or any other alternative rate will gain market acceptance. In addition, although certain of our LIBOR based obligations and investments provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate if LIBOR is not reported, uncertainty as to 9 Table of Contents the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if LIBOR rate was available in its current form. We may also need to renegotiate our LIBOR based obligations, which we may not be successful in doing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. We may not receive or be able to maintain certain tax benefits if we are not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development. We may not receive or be able to maintain certain existing or anticipated tax benefits related to The Berkley, 237 11 th and 250 North 10 th properties if we are not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD). All of these properties currently benefit from a real estate tax exemption under New York Real Property Tax Law (the RPTL) Section 421-a, as a result of a specified percentage of the units in such buildings being designated as affordable rate units or market rate units and/or subject to rent stabilization guidelines, among other requirements. Section 421-a of the New York RPTL provides an exemption from real estate taxes on the amount of the assessed value of newly constructed improvements if certain requirements are met. A property cannot maintain or continue to receive Section 421-a tax benefits without HPDs determination that all Section 421-a eligibility requirements have and continue to be met. Although HPD has issued final Certificates of Eligibility with respect to the Section 421-a tax benefits for The Berkley, 237 11 th and 250 North 10 th properties and we are currently in compliance with all applicable Section 421-a requirements for such properties, there can be no assurance that compliance with the Section 421-a requirements for these properties will continue to be maintained. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program, as applicable to any of these properties, HPD may find that such property is ineligible to receive the tax exemption benefits related to the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program. Our ability to develop or redevelop our properties and enter into new leases with tenants will depend on our obtaining certain permits, site plan approvals and other governmental approvals from local municipalities, which we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. In order to develop or redevelop our properties, we will be required to obtain certain permits, site plan approvals or other governmental approvals from local municipalities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits or approvals on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from developing or redeveloping our properties according to our business plan. Additionally, potential acquirers or tenants may also need to obtain certain permits or approvals in order to utilize our properties in the manner they intend to do so. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Our inability to obtain permits and approvals to develop or redevelop our properties, or the inability of potential purchasers and tenants of our properties to obtain necessary permits and approvals, could severely and adversely affect our business. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible 10 Table of Contents individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The ADA generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These rules are subject to interpretation and change. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our operating properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified and experienced management and other personnel, including in particular our President and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Messinger. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract qualified management and other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future tax payments may be limited as a result of future transactions. We had approximately $232.0 million of federal NOLs as of December 31, 2020. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), limits the ability of a company to utilize its NOLs after an ownership change. For purposes of Section 382, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the stock of the company owned by persons holding 5% or more of the stock increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three year lookback period. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on our use of NOLs is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change. If we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize our NOLs would be subject to significant limitations. In addition, the 2017 tax legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) limited the deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year, and eliminated the ability of taxpayers to carryback such NOLs to prior years. These limitations were modified by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, signed into law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act suspended the 80% limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021, and allowed losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2021 to be carried back up to five years. Political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to outbreaks of contagious diseases, including COVID-19, could have an adverse effect on us. We cannot predict how current political and economic uncertainty, including uncertainty related to taxation and increases in interest rates, will affect our critical tenants, joint venture partners, lenders, financial institutions and general economic 11 Table of Contents conditions, including consumer confidence and the volatility of the stock market and real estate market. In addition, we cannot predict the continued impact of COVID-19 or the potential outbreak of other contagious diseases in the future. These issues pose a risk to us in that they may cause consumers to postpone discretionary spending in response to tighter credit, reduced consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, resulting in a downturn in the business of our tenants and an impact on potential purchases of our residential condominium units. In the event current political and economic uncertainty results in financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Each of these could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. We also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. Our common stock, currently listed on the NYSE American, is thinly traded. We cannot assure stockholders that an active market for our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or, if developed, that it will be sustained. In addition, we may determine the benefits of listing our shares on the NYSE American do not merit the associated costs. As a result of these factors, stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock. Because our common stock is thinly traded, even small trades can have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, as was the case in 2018 through 2020 when our stock price decreased significantly on low volume. For instance, our stock price has ranged from a high of $7.45 per share in May 2018, to a low of $1.11 per share in April 2020 even though we believe we have executed our business plan and significantly de-risked our development of 77 Greenwich. Volatility in the market price of our common stock and lack of liquidity may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for such shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: changes in the real estate markets in which we operate; our ability to develop or redevelop or successfully sell units in 77 Greenwich or at other properties in the future; our ability to identify new acquisition and investment opportunities and/or close on those acquisitions or investments; the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock including at prices that are below the then-current trading price of our common stock; volatility in global and/or U.S. equities markets; our financial results or those of other companies in our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; 12 Table of Contents changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; changes in generally accepted accounting principles, policies, guidance, or interpretations; and other factors described in our filings with the SEC, including among others in connection with the risks noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, until our common stock is more widely held and actively traded, small sales or purchases may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate dramatically up or down without regard to our financial health or business prospects. Downward fluctuations can impair, and have impaired, our ability to raise equity capital on acceptable terms. Stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests upon the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock. We may issue additional equity securities in capital raising transactions or otherwise, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 120,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 79,999,997 shares of common stock, two shares of a class of preferred stock (which were redeemed in accordance with their terms and may not be reissued), one share of a class of special stock and 40,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. Outstanding as of December 31, 2020 were 32,172,107 shares of our common stock, one share of special stock, and warrants to purchase 7,179,000 shares of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. Any future issuance of our equity or equity-linked securities may dilute then-current stockholders ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants, as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions and investments, development, redevelopment and repositioning of assets, or for other business purposes. Our board of directors may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common stock without stockholder approval, unless the approval of our common stockholders is required by applicable law, rule or regulation, including NYSE American regulations, or our certificate of incorporation. The terms of preferred or other equity or equity-linked securities we may issue in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, anti-dilution protection, pre-emptive rights, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, among other terms, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our outstanding warrants also contain these types of provisions. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price or have conversion or exercise prices below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. A decline in the price of our common stock, including as a result of a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. A decline in the price of our common stock, whether as a result of market conditions, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or other reasons, such as has occurred since mid-2018, may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate, which would impair our ability to raise capital. Capital-raising transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. 13 Table of Contents If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restrictions on resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock could fall. A significant amount of restricted shares previously issued by us have been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the SEC. More than 50% of our shares of common stock are currently controlled by four of our stockholders who may have the ability to influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. More than 50% of our shares of common stock are controlled by four of our stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders for a vote. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. The holder of our special stock and one of our lenders each have the right to appoint a member to our board of directors and, consequently, the ability to exert influence over us. In connection with the investment in us by Third Avenue Trust, on behalf of Third Avenue Real Estate Value Fund (Third Avenue), a beneficial holder of 18.8% of our common stock at December 31, 2020, Third Avenue was issued one share of a class of special stock and our certificate of incorporation was amended to provide that, subject to the other terms and conditions of our certificate of incorporation, from the issuance of the one share of special stock and until the Special Stock Ownership Threshold of 2,345,000 shares of common stock is no longer satisfied, Third Avenue has the right to elect one director to the board of directors. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement and letter agreement we entered into in December 2019 with the lender under our Corporate Credit Facility (the CCF Lender), the CCF Lender has the right to elect one director to the board of directors, or, at the election of the CCF Lender, a board observer may be selected in lieu of a board member, so long as certain conditions are met as described in more detail in Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit and Note 11 Stockholders Equity. As a result, for so long as these board appointment rights are in effect, Third Avenue and the CCF Lender may be able to exert influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our best interests or the best interests of the other stockholders. In order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation includes certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOLs and certain other tax attributes for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, our certificate of incorporation contains certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of our common stock and may have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our stock generally. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be devoted to our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and such other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investors investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate 14 Table of Contents actions. In addition to the matters identified in the risk factors above relating to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, these provisions include: a classified board of directors with two-year staggered terms; limitations in our certificate of incorporation on acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock designed to protect our NOLs and certain other tax attributes; and authorization for blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock and result in the market price of the common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain actions or proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to make a claim against the Company, our directors, officers, and employees. The Companys certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on the Companys behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against the Company arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Companys certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against the Company that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This provision is not intended to apply to claims arising under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. To the extent the provision could be construed to apply to such claims, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce the provision in such respect, and the Companys stockholders will not be deemed to have waived the Companys compliance with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The exclusive forum provision may discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to submit claims in a judicial forum that they find favorable and may create additional costs as a result. If a court were to determine the exclusive forum provision to be inapplicable and unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs in conjunction with our efforts to resolve the dispute in an alternative jurisdiction, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Because we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, non-U.S. holders of our common stock could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from its sale, exchange or other disposition. Because we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, which we refer to as "USRPHC," under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 and applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, which we refer to collectively as the "FIRPTA Rules," unless an exception applies, certain non-U.S. investors in our common stock could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of shares of our common stock, and such non-U.S. investors could be required to file a United States federal income tax return. In addition, the purchaser of such common stock may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase price and remit such amount to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. Under the FIRPTA Rules, we are a USRPHC because our interests in U.S. real property comprise at least 50% of the fair market value of our assets. Our common stock trades on the NYSE American. So long as it continues to do so, and is regularly quoted by brokers or dealers making a market in our common stock, our common stock will be treated as "regularly traded on an established securities market" (within the meaning of the FIRPTA Rules). As a result, (i) a non-U.S. investor who, actually or constructively, holds no more than 5% of our common stock would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock under the FIRPTA Rules, and (ii) a purchaser of such stock from a non-U.S. investor would not be required to withhold any portion of the purchase price of such stock, regardless of the percentage of our common stock held by such non-U.S. investor. Any of our common stockholders that are non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisors to determine the consequences of investing in our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Below is certain information regarding our real estate properties as of December 31, 2020: Building Size (estimated Leased at rentable Number of December 31, Property Location Type of Property square feet) Units 2020 Owned Locations 77 Greenwich, New York, New York (1) Property under development N/A Paramus, New Jersey (2) Property under development 77,000 100.0 % 237 11 th Street, Brooklyn, New York (3) Multi-family 80,000 105 20.0 % Total 157,000 105 Joint Ventures 223 North 8 th Street, Brooklyn, New York - 50% (4) Multi-family 65,000 95 91.6 % 250 North 10 th Street, Brooklyn, New York - 10% (5) Multi-family 158,000 234 87.2 % Total 223,000 329 Grand Total 380,000 434 (1) 77 Greenwich. We are currently nearing completion of the development stage for the development of an over 300,000 gross square foot mixed-use building that corresponds to the approximate total of 233,000 zoning square feet. The plans call for the development of 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, 7,500 square feet of retail space, almost all of which is street level, a 476-seat elementary school serving New York City District 2, including the adaptive reuse of the landmarked Robert and Anne Dickey House, and construction of a new handicapped accessible subway entrance on Trinity Place. In early April 2020, New York State required all non-essential construction projects be shut down due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, the construction of 77 Greenwich was temporarily suspended. Construction recommenced mid-April, initially on a modified basis, as certain work was deemed essential construction. Since June 2020, a full crew has been on site and operating in accordance with applicable guidelines in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. As of December 31, 2020, 100% of the building enclosure is complete (excluding the hoist area), drywall was installed through floor 28, tile and stone through floor 24, and wood flooring and kitchen cabinets through floor 20. We have also completed the build-out and furnishing of the model units in the building. The attorney generals office approved our condominium offering plan in April 2019. Marketing of residential units for sale commenced during the spring 2019 and the Company has commenced entering into sales agreements with purchasers of the residential condominium units. Although sales activity has recently begun to increase from 2020 levels, through December 31, 2020 sales activity was limited due to being adversely impacted by the pandemic and the local New York City economy. In December 2017, we closed on a $189.5 million construction facility, which was paid down by $8.0 million in December 2020. We draw down proceeds under the construction facility as costs related to the construction are incurred, with an aggregate of $139.0 million having been drawn as of December 31, 2020. We currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the construction facility, together with equity funded by us to date and contributions by the New York City School Construction Authority (the SCA), will be sufficient to fund the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us 16 Table of Contents making any further equity contributions (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further information). We entered into an agreement with the SCA, whereby we agreed to construct a school to be sold to the SCA as part of our condominium development at 77 Greenwich. Pursuant to the agreement, the SCA agreed to pay us $41.5 million for the purchase of their condominium unit and reimburse us for the costs associated with constructing the school, including a construction supervision fee of approximately $5.0 million payable to us. Payments for construction are made by the SCA to the general contractor in installments as construction on their condominium unit progresses. Payments to us for the land and construction supervision fee commenced in January 2018 and continued through October 2019 for the land and will continue through the second quarter of 2021 for the construction supervision fee, with an aggregate of $46.0 million having been paid to us as of December 31, 2020 from the SCA, with $500,000 remaining to be paid. We have also received an aggregate of $48.2 million in reimbursable construction costs from the SCA through December 31, 2020. The SCA closed on the purchase of the school condominium unit with us in April 2020, at which point title transferred to the SCA, and the SCA is now proceeding to complete the buildout of the interior space, which is planned to become an approximately 476 seat public elementary school. Upon conveyance, we recognized a gain on the sale of approximately $20.0 million and an additional gain of $4.2 million related to the recognition of our deferred construction supervision fee, and our liquidity requirement on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility decreased from $15.0 million to $10.0 million. The pace of completion of the buildout by the SCA has been impacted by COVID-19 and its scheduled timeline is currently anticipated to be August 2022. Prior to the COVID-19 related shutdown of all non-essential construction by New York State in early April 2020, the residential condominium units were scheduled to be completed by the end of 2020. Future delays in construction may result in a delay in our ability to complete the construction project on its original timeline and our ability to sell condominium units. In December 2020, we amended certain provisions of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility to provide more flexibility under the sales pace covenant and other financial covenants (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further information). Despite the construction delays, we currently expect that the construction project will be completed within budget. We currently anticipate receiving our temporary certificates of occupancy (TCO) in stages through the first half of 2021, with the first TCO having been received on March 8, 2021. (2) Paramus Property. The Paramus property consists of a one-story and partial two-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet, for approximately 77,000 total square feet of rentable space. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building is leased to Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: RH) (Restoration Hardware) pursuant to a license agreement that began on June 1, 2016, which is terminable upon two months notice, and currently is scheduled to end on March 31, 2021. We are in discussion with Restoration Hardware to extend their license agreement through March 2022. The outparcel building is leased to a long-term tenant whose lease expires on March 31, 2022. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we collected 100% of rent due. We are currently exploring options with respect to the Paramus property, including development or sale, among others. (3) 237 11 th Street. In May 2018, we closed on the acquisition of a newly built 105-unit, 12-story multi-family apartment building encompassing approximately 93,000 gross square feet (approximately 80,000 rentable square feet) located at 237 11 th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, New York for a purchase price of $81.2 million, excluding transaction costs of approximately $0.7 million. The property also includes 6,264 square feet of retail space, more than half of which is leased to Starbucks Inc. (NQGS:SBUX) and an oral surgeon. Located on the border of the Park Slope and Gowanus neighborhoods of Brooklyn, the property is located one block from the 4th Avenue/9th Street subway station. The 237 11 th property offers an array of modern amenities that surpass what is available in the neighborhoods brownstone housing stock. The property also benefits from a 15-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Due to certain construction defects at 237 11 th that resulted in water penetration into the building and damage to certain apartment units and other property, which defects we believe were concealed and which would have required significant invasive work of a type not usually required or permitted, especially on a newly-built asset, to be detected, 17 Table of Contents we submitted proofs of loss to our insurance carrier for property damage and business interruption (lost revenue) in March 2019. The insurance carrier subsequently disclaimed coverage for the losses and we filed a complaint against the carrier and its administrator, alleging that they breached the insurance policy by denying coverage and requesting a declaration that they are obligated to cover the claimed damage. We also filed legal claims against the seller, its parent company, and the general contractor to recover damages arising from the defective construction. In addition, the general contractor impleaded into that litigation several subcontractors who performed work on the property. Management expects to recover some portion of the cost incurred to repair the property through the litigations and/or settlement negotiations with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, the subcontractors, and the insurance carrier, although the amount of damages that may be recoverable in litigation and/or potential settlement negotiations are uncertain at this time, as is receipt of any such payments, which has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting backlog in the court system and slowdown in the judicial proceedings. We have been in discussions with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, and the third-party defendants impleaded by the general contractor about engaging in mediation to potentially settle the case involving those parties. A mediation process commenced at the end of February 2021. We incurred significant cash outflows for costs associated with repairs and remediation, which commenced in September 2019. The decrease in occupancy to 20% at December 31, 2020 was due to the clearing of certain floors to prepare for and carry out the remediation work. Remediation and restoration work was delayed for two months in 2020 due to the temporary shutdown of non-essential construction projects in New York from April to June, which resulted in a delay in commencement of our leasing up of the property. Future delays would have a similar impact. Prior to the COVID-19 related shutdown of all non-essential construction by New York State, we expected the building to be approximately 75% remediated by the summer 2020 and to re-introduce the building into the leasing market on or around the same time. As of December 31, 2020, remediation work on floors 4-12 had been completed, other than a few specific units. We expect the remediation and restoration project to be completed by spring 2021. As of December 31, 2020, 58 units had been remediated, many of which are now occupied. We also began leasing efforts for the remediated units, although the pace of leasing in the current environment remains uncertain. Additional units will be introduced back into the market as they become available. During the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2020, we collected 100% of rent due, respectively. As of February 28, 2021, the property was approximately 28% leased. (4) 223 North 8 th Street. Through a joint venture, we own a 50% interest in the entity formed to acquire and operate The Berkley, a newly built 95-unit multi-family property encompassing approximately 99,000 gross square feet (65,000 rentable square feet) at 223 North 8 th Street in North Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. The Berkley is in close proximity to public transportation and offers a full amenity package. Apartments feature top-of-the-line unit finishes, central air conditioning and heating and most units have private outdoor space. The property benefits from a 25-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. During the fourth quarter ended and year ended December 31, 2020, The Berkley collected approximately 99.5% and 97.8% of rent due, respectively. As of February 28, 2021, the property was approximately 99% leased. (5) 250 North 10 th Street. Through a joint venture, we own a 10% interest in the entity formed to acquire and operate 250 North 10 th Street, a newly built 234-unit apartment building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. The property is four blocks from the Bedford Avenue L subway station and a short walk from the Metropolitan Avenue G subway station as well as the J, M, and Z trains at Marcy Avenue. It is located one block from The Berkley. Apartments feature top-of-the-line unit finishes including GE stainless steel appliances, caesarstone countertops, in-unit washers and dryers, individually zoned climate controls, floor to ceiling windows and oak hardwood floors. In addition, the property offers a full amenity package including a concierge, a residents lounge with roof deck, a fitness center, a caf lounge and an expansive terrace, tenant storage, parking, and sweeping views of the neighborhood and Manhattan. The property has approximately eight years remaining on its 15-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Although all apartments are market rate units, they are subject to New York Citys rent stabilization law during the remaining term of the Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. During both the fourth quarter ended and year ended December 31, 2020, 250 North 10 th Street collected approximately 93.1% of rent due. As of February 28, 2021, the property was approximately 99% leased. Lease Expirations As of December 31, 2020, we have one retail lease at our Paramus property with 4,000 square feet of leased space with annualized rent of $140,000 per year that expires in 2022, a retail lease at the 237 11 th property with 2,006 square feet of 18 Table of Contents leased space with annualized rent of $130,000 per year that expires in 2027 and a second retail lease at the 237 11 th property with 1,074 square feet of leased space with average annualized rent of $92,675 per year that expires in 2036. All our other leases are residential leases which expire within twelve or twenty-four months of the commencement date. Corporate Headquarters We lease our corporate headquarters in New York, New York (approximately 6,271 square feet). The lease expires in March 2025. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note 9 Commitments Legal Proceedings to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the resolution of a claim related to the multiemployer pension plan. In addition to this matter, in the normal course of business, we are also party to routine legal proceedings. Based on advice of counsel and available information, including current status or stage of proceedings, and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from litigation we are currently involved in will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NYSE American. The trading symbol of our common stock is TPHS. Outstanding Common Stock and Holders As of March 31, 2021, we had 38,840,508 shares issued and 32,442,635 shares outstanding and there were approximately 160 record holders of our common stock. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table shows the stock repurchase activity by the Company or any affiliated purchaser of the Company, as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act, by month for the three months ended December 31, 2020: Total Approximate number of Dollar Value of Average Shares Purchased Shares that May Total Price As Part of Publicly Yet Be Purchased Number of Paid Announced Under the Period Shares Purchased per Share Plans or Programs Plans or Programs 10/1/20 - 10/31/20 4,516,639 11/1/20 - 11/30/20 4,516,639 12/1/20 - 12/31/20 26,113 4,516,639 Quarter ending December 31, 2020 (1) 26,113 (2) $ 1.00 $ 4,516,639 (3) (1) In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which we can buy up to $5.0 million of shares of our common stock, which is subject to the terms of our Corporate Credit Facility. Repurchases under the stock repurchase program may be made through open market or privately negotiated transactions at times and on such terms and in such amounts as management deems appropriate, subject to market conditions, regulatory requirements and other factors. The program does not obligate the Company to repurchase any particular amount of common stock, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. (2) Includes 26,113 shares purchased by an affiliated purchaser of the Company. (3) Since inception of the share repurchase program through December 31, 2020, the Company has repurchased 250,197 shares of common stock for approximately $483,361, or an average price per share of $1.93. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $4.5 million remained available for share purchase under the share repurchase program, subject to the terms of our Corporate Credit Facility. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion related to our consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A detailed discussion of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 is not included herein and can be found in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section in the 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 13, 2020. 20 Table of Contents Overview Trinity Place Holdings Inc. which we refer to in this report as Trinity, we, our, or us, is a real estate holding, investment, development and asset management company. Our largest asset is currently a property located at 77 Greenwich Street in Lower Manhattan (77 Greenwich). 77 Greenwich was previously a vacant building that we demolished. It is under development as a mixed-use project consisting of a 90-unit residential condominium tower, retail space and a New York City elementary school. We also own a newly built 105-unit, 12-story multi-family property located at 237 11 th Street in Brooklyn, New York (237 11 th ), acquired in May 2018, and, through joint ventures, a 50% interest in a newly built 95-unit multi-family property known as The Berkley, located at 223 North 8 th Street, Brooklyn (The Berkley) and a 10% interest in a newly built 234-unit multi-family property located one block from The Berkley at 250 North 10 th Street (250 North 10 th ) acquired in January 2020, also in Brooklyn, New York. In addition we own a property occupied by retail tenants in Paramus, New Jersey. See Item 2. Properties for a more detailed description of our properties. In addition to our real estate portfolio, we also control a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, a legacy of our predecessor, Syms Corp. (Syms). We also had approximately $232.0 million of federal net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) at December 31, 2020, which can be used to reduce our future taxable income and capital gains. We continue to evaluate new investment opportunities, with a focus on newly constructed multi-family properties in New York City as well as properties in close proximity to public transportation in the greater New York metropolitan area. We consider investment opportunities involving other types of properties and real estate related assets, as well as repurchases of our common stock, taking into account our cash position, liquidity requirements, and our ability to raise capital to finance our growth. In addition, we may selectively consider potential acquisition, development and fee-based opportunities, as well as disposition, sale or consolidation opportunities. Impact of COVID-19 The impact of the recent outbreak of COVID-19 on our results and operations has been and will continue to be significant. The extent of the impact going forward will largely depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the severity and duration of the outbreak, in New York City in particular, the success of actions taken to contain or treat COVID-19, actions taken by governmental entities, companies and individuals in response to the pandemic and reactions to such actions, the impact on local and broader economic activity and capital markets from the COVID-19 pandemic and new information that emerges with respect to the foregoing and other aspects of COVID-19. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact the Companys business, operations and financial results in the future will depend on numerous evolving factors that the Company is not able to predict at this time, including, but not limited to, the impact on sales of residential condominium units at our most significant asset, 77 Greenwich, which has been material, the impact on the timing for construction of 77 Greenwich and completion of the remediation and restoration project at 237 11 th ; the impact on the timing of the 237 11 th litigation due to backlog in the New York City court system and the slowdown in judicial proceedings, and the receipt of any payments we may receive in connection with the litigation; our ability to obtain maturity extensions and covenant modifications on acceptable terms; increased operating costs related to cleaning and disinfecting our properties; the effect of the pandemic on the Companys tenants and their ability to make rental payments; and the effect of the eviction moratorium (in effect from March 2020 through May 1, 2021, subject to further extension) imposed by New York State and the impact of decisions of the NYC Rent Guidelines Board on our ability to raise rents. These developments and events have and will continue to adversely impact the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price, which has been and is anticipated to continue to be material, although in recent months we have seen indications of a recovery in the New York City real estate market and improvements in the financing markets, including early indications of robust interest in the refinancing of our two loans maturing in June 2021 and January 2022, respectively. See Note 1 Business to our consolidated financial statements and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Vacancy rates for multifamily properties across all boroughs of New York City have increased since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the largest increases in Manhattan. The work from home phenomenon resulted in significant number of people moving out of urban areas to suburban areas. This has driven a drop in rental rates and an increase in concessions resulting in lower net effective rents primarily on new leases. In recent months, with the implementation of COVID-19 vaccination programs and companies encouraging employees to return to the office, more potential tenants are moving back into New York City, which we anticipate should result in a reduction in concessions over time. New York State imposed a moratorium on tenant evictions in March 2020 that will be in place until May 1, 2021, unless extended 21 Table of Contents further. Rent collections at our properties have been strong and in line with pre-pandemic collection rates. Notwithstanding these broader market trends, although multifamily property sales transaction volumes decreased in 2020, signs of distress, including discounted sales prices and debt workouts, in the New York City investment market has been almost non-existent over the past year. Transactions, Development and Other Activities During 2020 Continued Progress in Development of 77 Greenwich As of December 31, 2020, we completed all 45 stories of the superstructure at 77 Greenwich and 100% of the building enclosure is complete (excluding the hoist area). The project continues to be on schedule and on budget and was approximately 86% complete at December 31, 2020. Other Activities In January 2020, we, along with our joint venture partner TF Cornerstone Group LLC (TFC) closed on the acquisition of 250 North 10 th property, a market-leading 234-unit apartment building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn located one block from The Berkley. In April 2020, the SCA closed on the purchase of the school condominium unit from us. The SCA is now proceeding to complete the buildout of the interior space, which is planned to become an approximately 476 seat public elementary school. The pace of completion of the buildout by the SCA has been impacted by COVID-19 and its scheduled timeline is currently anticipated to be August 2022. Upon conveyance, we recognized a gain on the sale of approximately $20.0 million and an additional gain of $4.2 million related to the recognition of our construction supervision fee, and our liquidity requirement on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility decreased from $15.0 million to $10.0 million. In June 2020, we amended our senior loan on 237 11 th by extending the maturity date to June 2021 and providing for a $4.25 million delay draw facility to be used to fund a portion of the remediation costs at this property. As of December 31, 2020, remediation work on floors 4-12 had been completed, other than a few specific units. We expect the remediation and restoration project to be completed by spring 2021. As of December 31, 2020, 58 units have been remediated, many of which are now occupied, and our leasing efforts continue, although the pace of leasing in the current environment remains uncertain. Additional units will be introduced back into the market as they become available. See Item 2. Properties for additional information. In December 2020, we amended our 77 Greenwich Construction Facility to modify the sales pace covenant and other financial covenants, and paid down the facility by $8.0 million. Simultaneous with the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility amendment, we entered into a new $7.5 million mezzanine loan with an affiliate of the lender under our Corporate Credit Facility and amended that facility. Results of Operations Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Rental revenues in total decreased by approximately $3.1 million to $993,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. This consisted of a decrease in rent revenues by approximately $2.7 million to $911,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as well as a decrease in tenant reimbursements by approximately $397,000 to $82,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $479,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in total revenues and its related components was partially due to the sale of the West Palm Beach, Florida property (approximately $1.2 million) in November 2019 as well as lower occupancy, lower face rents and increased rent concessions at 237 11 th due to certain construction related defects that are being repaired. 22 Table of Contents Other income of $263,000 consisted mainly of the SCA construction supervision fees we recognized since the closing on the sale of the school condominium to the SCA in April 2020. Property operating expenses increased by approximately $2.8 million to $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was principally due to expenses associated with 237 11 th , including approximately $7.1 million in costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2020 to repair the construction related defects. The increase was partially offset by a reduction expenses from the West Palm Beach, Florida property which was sold in November 2019. These amounts consisted primarily of expenses incurred for utilities, payroll, COVID-19 related supplies and general operating expenses as well as repairs and maintenance at 237 11 th . Real estate tax expense decreased by $249,000 to $79,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $328,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019, due primarily to the sale of the West Palm Beach, Florida property in November 2019. General and administrative expenses decreased by $394,000 to $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately $708,000 related to stock-based compensation, $2.5 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $980,000 related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance, and $788,000 related to legal, accounting and other professional fees which included approximately $200,000 of legal fees to resolve a legacy Syms claim related to the multiemployer pension plan (see Note 9 Commitments Legal Proceedings to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the claim). For the year ended December 31, 2019, approximately $859,000 related to stock-based compensation, $2.7 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.1 million related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $743,000 related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. Pension related costs decreased by $388,000 to $345,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $733,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. These costs represent professional fees and other periodic pension costs incurred in connection with the legacy Syms Pension Plan (see Note 8 Pension Plans to our consolidated financial statements for further information). Transaction related costs decreased by $34,000 to $133,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $167,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. These costs represent professional fees and other costs incurred in connection with the underwriting and evaluation of potential acquisitions and investments for transactions that were not consummated, as well as costs for potential leases at our retail properties that were not consummated. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by approximately $209,000 to $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from approximately $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for 237 11 th of approximately $1.7 million and the amortization of lease commissions, acquired in-place leases and warrants of approximately $1.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for 237 11 th and the West Palm Beach, Florida property of approximately $1.8 million and the amortization of trademarks and lease commissions and acquired in-place leases of approximately $1.2 million. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 was primarily due to the in-place lease costs at 237 11 th being fully amortized by December 31, 2019 and the sale of the West Palm Beach, Florida property in November 2019. Gain on sale of condominium of $24.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 consists of the gain on sale of the school condominium to the SCA of $20.0 million and an additional gain of $4.2 million related to the recognition of our construction supervision fee which had been deferred. This gain was recorded upon the conveyance of the school condominium to the SCA in April 2020. Gain on sale of real estate for the year ending December 31, 2019 of $9.5 million was due to the sale of the West Palm Beach, Florida property in November 2019 for consideration of $19.6 million. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures increased by approximately $752,000 to $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from approximately $819,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expenses, approximately $800,000 of which was our portion of the write-off of deferred finance costs in connection with the refinancing of the Berkley Loan during the second quarter of 2020. This was partially 23 Table of Contents offset by higher rental revenue from the acquisition of 250 North 10 th in January 2020. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures represents our 50% share in The Berkley and our 10% share in 250 North 10 th . For the year ended December 31, 2020, our share of the loss is primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $1.8 million offset by depreciation and amortization of $2.6 million and interest expense of $800,000. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our share of the loss, which consisted only of The Berkley, is primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $1.2 million offset by depreciation and amortization of $1.0 million and interest expense of $953,000. Unrealized gain on warrants of $965,000 represents the change in the mark-to-market of the valuation of warrants during the year ended December 31, 2020. Interest expense, net increased by $1.5 million to $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from approximately $67,000 of interest income, net for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, there was approximately $17.2 million of gross interest expense incurred, $15.7 million of which was capitalized, and $57,000 of interest income. For the year ended December 31, 2019, there was approximately $13.5 million of gross interest expense incurred, all of which was capitalized, and $67,000 of interest income. The increase in gross interest expense and capitalized interest is due to the larger and growing borrowings outstanding on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility during the period, as well as new borrowings under the Corporate Credit Facility as described in more detail in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. Interest expense - amortization of deferred finance costs of $202,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020 represents the amount of amortization of finance costs for our loans and line of credit that were not capitalized as part of real estate under development. We recorded $306,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $128,000 in tax in expense for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net income attributable to common stockholders increased by approximately $8.7 million to $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from a loss of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as a result of the changes discussed above, principally the gain on sale of the school condominium to the SCA. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently expect that our principal sources of funds to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements for working capital and funds for acquisition and development or redevelopment of properties, tenant improvements, leasing costs, and repayments of outstanding indebtedness will include some or all of the following: (1) cash on hand; (2) proceeds from new debt financings, increases to existing debt financings and/or other forms of secured or unsecured debt financing; (3) proceeds from equity or equity-linked offerings, including rights offerings or convertible debt or equity or equity-linked securities issued in connection with debt financings; (4) cash flow from operations; and (5) net proceeds from divestitures of properties or interests in properties. Cash flow from operations is primarily dependent upon the occupancy level of our portfolio, the net effective rental rates achieved on our leases, the collectability of rent, operating escalations and recoveries from our tenants and the level of operating and other costs. As of December 31, 2020, we had total cash and restricted cash of $16.1 million, of which approximately $6.5 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $9.6 million was restricted cash. As of December 31, 2019, we had total cash and restricted cash of $18.7 million, of which approximately $9.2 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $9.5 million was restricted cash. Restricted cash represents amounts required to be restricted under our loan agreements, letters of credit (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for 24 Table of Contents further information), deposits on residential condominium sales at 77 Greenwich and tenant related security deposits. In addition, cash and cash equivalents includes cash which, together with availability under our line of credit, is required to be maintained to meet certain liquidity requirements under the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, described below. This liquidity requirement, inclusive of cash and line of credit availability, decreased to $10.0 million when we closed on the conveyance of the school condominium to the SCA in April 2020 and decreases further upon the achievement of certain construction related milestones at 77 Greenwich. Corporate Credit Facility In December 2019, we entered into a credit agreement (the Corporate Credit Facility) with an affiliate of a global institutional investment management firm as initial lender (the CCF Lender) and Trimont Real Estate Advisors, LLC, as administrative agent (the Corporate Facility Administrative Agent), pursuant to which the CCF Lender agreed to extend us credit in multiple draws aggregating $70.0 million, which may be increased by $25.0 million subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and the consent of the CCF Lender. Draws under the Corporate Credit Facility may be made during the 32-month period following the closing date of the Corporate Credit Facility (the Closing Date). The Corporate Credit Facility matures on December 19, 2024, subject to extensions until December 19, 2025 and June 19, 2026, respectively, under certain circumstances. The proceeds of the Corporate Credit Facility may be used for investments in certain multi-family apartment buildings in the greater New York City area and certain non-residential real estate investments approved by the CCF Lender in its reasonable discretion, as well as in connection with certain property recapitalizations and in specified amounts for general corporate purposes and working capital. The Corporate Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) 5.25% and (ii) a scheduled interest rate (the Cash Pay Interest Rate) based on six-month periods from the Closing Date, which Cash Pay Interest Rate, from the Closing Date until the six-month anniversary of the Closing Date initially equaled 4.0% and increases by 125 basis points in each succeeding six-month period, subject to increase during the extension periods. A $2.45 million commitment fee was payable 50% on the initial draw with the remaining 50% payable as amounts under the Corporate Credit Facility are drawn, with any remaining balance due on the last date of the draw period, and a 1.0% exit fee is payable in respect of Corporate Credit Facility repayments. As of December 31, 2020, we had paid $1.85 million of the commitment fee. The Corporate Credit Facility may be prepaid at any time subject to a prepayment premium on the portion of the Corporate Credit Facility being repaid. At December 31, 2020, the Corporate Credit Facility had an outstanding balance of $35.75 million and an effective interest rate of 9.5%. Accrued interest totaled approximately $1.5 million at December 31, 2020. The Corporate Credit Facility was undrawn at December 31, 2019. (See Note 10 Notes Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion). In connection with the December 22, 2020 transaction noted below, the Company entered into an amendment to the Corporate Credit Facility (the Corporate Facility Amendment) pursuant to which, among other things, (i) the CCF Lender and the Corporate Facility Administrative Agent permitted the Company to enter into the Mezzanine Loan Agreement (as defined below), the amendment to the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility (as defined below) and related documents, (ii) the commitment made by the CCF Lender under the Corporate Credit Facility was reduced by the amount of the Mezzanine Loan (as defined below) from $70.0 million to $62.5 million, subject to increase by $25.0 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions and the consent of the CCF Lender, and (iii) the multiple on invested capital, or MOIC, amount that would be due and payable by the Company upon the final repayment of the loan pursuant to the Corporate Credit Facility if no event of default exists and is continuing under the Corporate Credit Facility at any time prior to December 22, 2022, was amended to combine the Corporate Credit Facility and the Mezzanine Loan for purposes of calculating the MOIC, to the extent not previously paid, if any. In connection with the Corporate Credit Facility, we also entered into a warrant agreement with the CCF Lender pursuant to which we issued to the CCF Lender ten-year warrants (the Warrants) to purchase up to 7,179,000 shares of our common stock. In connection with the Corporate Facility Amendment, the exercise price of the Warrants was amended from $6.50 per share to $4.50 per share, payable in cash or pursuant to a cashless exercise (see Note 11 Stockholders Equity Warrants to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the warrants). 25 Table of Contents 237 11 th Loans In May 2018, in connection with the acquisition of 237 11 th , we entered into two-year interest-only financings with an aggregate principal amount of $67.8 million, comprised of a $52.4 million mortgage loan (the 237 11 th Loan) with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC) and a $15.4 million mezzanine loan with RCG LV Debt VI REIT, LLC bearing interest at a blended average rate of 3.72% over the 30-day LIBOR, each with a one-year extension option upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The mezzanine loan was repaid in full in February 2020. In June 2020, the maturity of the 237 11 th Loan was extended to June 2021 and the 237 11 th Loan was amended to include a delayed draw facility of $4.25 million, which is being drawn now that most of the $3.6 million of remediation reserves we funded in connection with the amendment have been used. As of December 31, 2020, $723,000 of the delayed draw funds had been drawn. We also funded an interest reserve account of $0.8 million which we are required to replenish over time. In conjunction with the amendment, a LIBOR floor of 50 basis points was put in place, the spread was increased by 25 basis points to 2.25% and the exit fee was increased by 50 basis points to 1.0%. At December 31, 2020, the 237 11 th Loan had a balance of $53.2 million and an effective interest rate of 2.75%. The blended effective interest rate at December 31, 2019 for both the 237 11 th Loan and the mezzanine loan was approximately 5.48%. The 237 11 th Loan is non-recourse to us except for our environmental indemnity agreements, certain non-recourse carve-out and carry guaranties covering among other things interest and operating expenses, and in the case of the mortgage loan, a guaranty of 25% of the principal amount, decreasing to 10% of the principal balance upon the debt yield ratio becoming equal to or greater than 7.0%. The 237 11 th Loan is prepayable at any time in whole, and under certain circumstances in part, upon payment of a 0.50% deferred commitment fee (unless the loan is refinanced with the mortgage lender in which case no such fee is payable). From time to time, properties that we own, acquire or develop may experience defects, including concealed defects, or damage due to natural causes, defective workmanship or other reasons. In these situations, we pursue our rights and remedies as appropriate with insurers, contractors, sellers and others. Due to certain construction defects at 237 11 th that resulted in water penetration into the building and damage to certain apartment units and other property, which defects we believe were concealed and which would have required significant invasive work of a type not usually required or permitted, especially on a newly-built asset, to be detected, we submitted proofs of loss to our insurance carrier for property damage and business interruption (lost revenue) in March 2019. The insurance carrier subsequently disclaimed coverage for the losses and we filed a complaint against the carrier and its administrator, alleging that they breached the insurance policy by denying coverage and requesting a declaration that they are obligated to cover the claimed damage. We also filed legal claims against the seller, its parent company, and the general contractor to recover damages arising from the defective construction. In addition, the general contractor has impleaded into that litigation several subcontractors who performed work on the property. Management expects to recover some portion of the cost incurred to repair the property through the litigations and/or settlement negotiations with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, the subcontractors, and the insurance carrier, although the amount of damages that may be recoverable in litigation and/or potential settlement negotiations are uncertain at this time, as is the receipt of any such payments, which has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting backlog in the court system and slowdown in judicial proceedings. We have been in discussions with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, and the third-party defendants impleaded by the general contractor about engaging in mediation to potentially settle the case involving those parties. A mediation process commenced at the end of February 2021. We incurred significant cash outflows for costs associated with repairs and remediation, which commenced in September 2019. The decrease in occupancy to 20% at December 31, 2020 was due to the clearing of certain floors to prepare for and carry out the remediation work. Remediation and restoration work was delayed for two months in 2020 due to the temporary shutdown of non-essential construction projects in New York from April to June, which resulted in a delay in commencement of our leasing up of the property. Future delays would have a similar impact. Prior to the COVID-19 related shutdown of all non-essential construction by New York State, we expected the building to be approximately 75% remediated by the summer 2020 and to re-introduce the building into the leasing market on or around the same time. As of December 31, 2020, remediation work on floors 4-12 has been completed, other than a few specific units. We expect the remediation and restoration project to be completed by spring 2021. As of December 31, 2020, 58 units had been remediated, many of which are now occupied. We also began leasing efforts for the remediated units, although the pace of leasing in the current environment remains uncertain. Additional units will be introduced back into the market as they become available. During the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2020, we collected approximately 100% of rent due. 26 Table of Contents 77 Greenwich Construction Facility In December 2017, we closed on a $189.5 million construction facility for 77 Greenwich (the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility) with Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company as lender and administrative agent (the 77 Greenwich Lender). We draw down proceeds as costs related to the construction of the new mixed-use building are incurred. The balance of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility was approximately $139.0 million at December 31, 2020. The 77 Greenwich Construction Facility has a four-year term ending January 2022 with an extension option for an additional year under certain circumstances. The collateral for the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility is the borrowers fee interest in 77 Greenwich, as well as related collateral and a pledge of equity in the borrower. The 77 Greenwich Construction Facility bears interest on amounts drawn at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (i) LIBOR plus 8.25% and (ii) 9.25% (see Note 10 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion). The effective interest rate at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 9.25% and 10.01%, respectively. Although there can be no assurances, we currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, together with equity funded by us to date, will be sufficient to complete the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. In connection with the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, we executed certain guaranties and environmental indemnities, including a recourse guaranty under which we are required to satisfy certain net worth and liquidity requirements. In early April 2020, New York State required all non-essential construction projects be shut down due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, the construction of 77 Greenwich was temporarily suspended. Construction recommenced mid-April, initially on a modified basis, as certain work was deemed essential construction. Since June 2020, a full crew has been on site and operating in accordance with applicable guidelines in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Future delays in construction may result in a delay in our ability to complete the construction project on its original timeline and our ability to sell condominium units. Despite the construction delays, we currently expect that the construction project will be completed within budget. We currently anticipate receiving our temporary certificates in stages through the first half of 2021. On December 22, 2020, we entered into an amendment to the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, pursuant to which, among other things, the sales pace covenants were amended and extended to provide for a reduction in the gross value of condominium sales at the 77 Greenwich and to afford more favorable cure rights than previously existed if a required sales threshold is not satisfied. The sales pace covenants will be tested on April 1, 2021, July 1, 2021 and October 2, 2021. Additionally, the outside date by which we are required to have substantially completed construction of all improvements to 77 Greenwich was extended to November 30, 2021 and the liquidity requirements will be reduced based on construction progress. We currently anticipate that Temporary Certificates of Occupancy, upon the granting of which, and in conjunction with our condominium offering plan being declared effective, unit purchasers may occupy their units (TCOs), will be issued significantly sooner than such outside date, with the first TCO having been received on March 8, 2021. In connection with entering into the amendment to the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, we paid down $8.0 million of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and funded certain reserves to the 77 Greenwich Lender, a portion of which was funded by a release of certain cash collateral and the balance of which was funded by a mezzanine loan in accordance with the Mezzanine Loan Agreement defined below. Under the terms of the amendment to the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, to the extent that any payments are needed to satisfy the minimum multiple fee owed to the 77 Greenwich Lender upon the repayment of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility that have not already been paid, such minimum multiple fee will be reduced by 60% if the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility is repaid in full prior to June 30, 2021, and by 40% if repaid between July 1, 2021 and September 30, 2021. The Company currently expects any such payments to be minimal (if anything). Mezzanine Loan On December 22, 2020, we entered into a mezzanine loan agreement with an affiliate of the CCF Lender (the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, and the loan thereunder, the Mezzanine Loan). The Mezzanine Loan is for an amount of $7.5 million and has a term of three years with two one-year extension options, exercisable under certain circumstances. The collateral for the Mezzanine Loan is the borrowers equity interest in its direct, wholly-owned subsidiary, which owns 100% of the equity interests in the borrower under the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility. The blended interest rate for the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and the Mezzanine Loan, assuming the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and the 27 Table of Contents Mezzanine Loan are fully drawn, is 9.44% on an annual basis, representing a variance from the prior rate of approximately 19 basis points. Interest on the Mezzanine Loan is not payable on a monthly basis but instead is automatically added to the unpaid principal amount on a monthly basis (and therefore accrues interest) and is payable in full on the maturity date of the Mezzanine Loan. Upon final repayment of the Mezzanine Loan, a MOIC will be due on substantially the same terms as provided for in the Corporate Credit Facility. The Mezzanine Loan may not be prepaid prior to prepayment in full of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, but if the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility is being prepaid in full, the Mezzanine Loan may be prepaid simultaneously therewith. Subject to the prior sentence the Mezzanine Loan may be prepaid in whole or in part, without penalty or premium (other than payment of the MOIC amount, if applicable, as provided above), upon prior written notice to the lender under the Mezzanine Loan. In connection with the Mezzanine Loan, the Company entered into a completion guaranty, carry guaranty, equity funding guaranty, recourse guaranty and environmental indemnification undertaking substantially consistent with the Companys existing guarantees made to the 77 Greenwich Lender in connection with the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility. Secured Line of Credit Our $12.75 million secured line of credit with Sterling National Bank is secured by the Paramus, New Jersey property. In March 2021, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity date to March 2022. The secured line of credit, which prior to the amendment, bore interest at 200 basis points over the 30-day LIBOR, now bears interest at the prime rate, currently 3.25%. The secured line of credit is pre-payable at any time without penalty. A portion of the secured line of credit is subject to an unused fee. As of December 31, 2020, the secured line of credit had an outstanding balance of $7.75 million and an effective interest rate of 2.14%. The Berkley Loan We own a 50% interest in a joint venture formed to acquire and operate The Berkley. In December 2016, the joint venture closed on the acquisition of The Berkley through a wholly-owned special purpose entity for a purchase price of $68.885 million, of which $42.5 million was financed through a 10-year loan (the Berkeley Loan) secured by The Berkley, and the balance was paid in cash, half of which was funded by us. On February 28, 2020, in connection with a refinancing, the Berkley Loan was repaid in full and it was replaced with a new 7-year, $33.0 million loan (the New Berkley Loan) which bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.717% and is interest only during the initial five years. It is pre-payable at any time and can be increased by up to $6.0 million under certain circumstances. We and our joint venture partner are joint and several recourse carve-out guarantors under the New Berkley Loan. 250 North 10 th Note We own a 10% interest in a joint venture with TF Cornerstone (the 250 North 10 th JV) formed to acquire and operate 250 North 10 th , a newly built 234-unit apartment building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. On January 15, 2020, the 250 North 10 th JV closed on the acquisition of the property through a wholly-owned special purpose entity for a purchase price of $137.75 million, of which $82.75 million was financed through a 15-year mortgage loan (the 250 North 10 th Note) secured by 250 North 10 th and the balance was paid in cash. Our share of the equity totaling approximately $5.9 million was funded through a loan (the Partner Loan) from our joint venture partner. The Partner Loan bears interest at 7.0% and is prepayable any time within its four year term. Our partner has the option of having the Partner Loan repaid in our common stock if the price of our common stock exceeds $6.50 per share at the time of conversion. The non-recourse 250 North 10 th Note bears interest at 3.39% for the duration of the loan term and has covenants, defaults, and a non-recourse carve out guaranty executed by us. We earned an acquisition fee at closing and are entitled to ongoing asset management fees and a promote upon the achievement of certain performance hurdles. COVID-19 Pandemic, Liquidity and Going Concern At this time, we believe our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with proceeds that may be raised from debt issuances, equity issuances, dispositions of properties, sales of partial interests in properties and/or draws on our Corporate Credit Facility and secured line of credit will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs and projected capital and other expenditures associated with our operations over the next 12 months, including approximately $300,000 28 Table of Contents of anticipated capital expenditures primarily at 237 11 th . We believe we have good relationships with our lenders and we have historically negotiated extensions, amendments and waivers with our lenders, when warranted. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our near-term, and may adversely affect our long-term, liquidity, cash flows and revenues and has required and may continue to require significant actions in response, including, but not limited to, reducing or discounting prices for our residential condominium units more than originally budgeted, seeking loan extensions and covenant modifications, modifying, eliminating or deferring rent payments in the short term for tenants in an effort to mitigate financial hardships and seeking access to federal, state and/or local financing and other programs. In addition, we continue to be subject to a New York State mandate disallowing tenant evictions for non-payment of rent due to COVID-19 related hardships. As has been reported in each of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, given the impacts of COVID-19, it is possible that we may be unable to extend or refinance our maturing debt or meet future sales pace covenants under the amended 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, creating substantial doubt about our ability to operate as a going concern. Although the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may affect our ability to extend or refinance the 237 11 th Loan which matures in June 2021, based on discussions with mortgage brokers and lenders, we believe there will be a high level of interest in a refinancing as the credit markets begin to improve along with improving conditions in the New York City real estate market and COVID-19 situation generally, combined with an increase in leases executed at the property. There is also significant interest in a potential refinancing of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, which matures in January 2022 and represents a majority of our maturing debt, including our receipt of proposed terms for a refinancing of the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility. Additionally, although the impact of the pandemic has impeded the sale of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich, the pace of signing contracts has increased in 2021. Although we believe that we will be able to enter into extensions, amendments and waivers with our lenders, raise additional capital, refinance indebtedness or enter into other financing arrangements or engage in asset sales sufficient to fund any cash needs that we are not able to satisfy with our cash, cash equivalents and draws on our Corporate Credit Facility or secured line of credit, given the current environment there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. See Note 1 Business - COVID-19 Pandemic to our consolidated financial statements and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. At-The-Market Equity Offering Program In December 2016, we entered into an "at-the-market" equity offering program (the ATM Program), to sell up to an aggregate of $12.0 million of our common stock. The sale agreement with our broker expired in accordance with its term on June 30, 2019 and was not extended. We did not sell any shares through this program in 2019. Cash Flows Cash Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net cash used in operating activities increased by approximately $6.8 million to $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was mainly due to an increase in operating losses of $4.4 million in 2020, primarily driven by the remediation costs incurred at 237 11 th , as well as a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $2.4 million. Net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $15.7 million to $55.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $39.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in investing activities was primarily due to the net proceeds of $18.8 million received upon the sale of our West Palm Beach, Florida property in November 2019, as well as our investment in our joint venture for The Berkley in connection with the pay-down of debt ($5.4 million) during the year ended December 31, 2020, partially offset by $6.5 million more in net additions to real estate and deferred real estate deposits on the condominiums during the year ended December 31, 2020. Net cash provided by financing activities increased by approximately $15.3 million to $62.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from approximately $47.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in financing activities primarily relates to the $35.75 million, $42.1 million, $7.5 million, $5.0 million, $723,000 and $243,000 in proceeds from the Corporate Credit Facility, 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Line of Credit, the 237 11 th Loan and the Paycheck Protection Program loan, respectively, during the year ended 29 Table of Contents December 31, 2020, as compared to $53.3 million, $7.2 million, $1.5 million and $670,000 in borrowings from the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, the Line of Credit, the West Palm Beach Loan and the Partner Loan, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2019. We also repaid the $15.4 million 237 11 th mezzanine loan, $8.0 million on the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and $2.5 million on the Line of Credit during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared with repayment of the WPB Loan of $12.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 Material Cash Requirements We estimate that for the year ending December 31, 2021, our material cash requirements will be approximately $300,000 for capital expenditures and development or redevelopment expenditures (including tenant improvements and leasing commissions) on existing properties, other than for 77 Greenwich which will be funded under the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility and 237 11 th remediation and restoration work which will be funded under the 237 Loan, including our portion of our two joint venture properties. We anticipate funding these capital expenditures through a combination of issuance of equity and cash on hand, additional property level mortgage financings and operating cash flow. We currently anticipate that the proceeds available under the 77 Greenwich Construction Facility, together with equity funded by us to date, will be sufficient to complete the construction and development of 77 Greenwich without us making any further equity contributions. Future property acquisitions may require substantial capital investments for refurbishment and leasing costs. Net Operating Losses We believe that our U.S. federal NOLs as of the emergence date of the Syms bankruptcy were approximately $162.8 million and believe our U.S. federal NOLs as of December 31, 2020 were approximately $232.0 million. In connection with the conveyance of the school condominium to the SCA, we applied approximately $11.6 million of federal NOLs against taxable capital gains of approximately $18.5 million. Since 2009 through December 31, 2020, we have utilized approximately $23.9 million of the federal NOLs. Pursuant to the TCJA, corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit carryforwards are eligible for a 50% refund in tax years 2018 through 2020, and beginning in tax year 2021, any remaining AMT credit carryforwards are 100% refundable. As a result of these new rules, we had released our valuation allowance of $3.1 million in 2017 which was formerly reserved against our AMT credit carryforwards. We had recorded a tax benefit and refund receivable of $3.1 million in 2017 in connection with this valuation allowance release. We received approximately $1.6 million of the refund receivable in October 2019, and the balance of approximately $1.5 million in July 2020. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law. The CARES Act accelerated the ability of corporations to recover AMT credits, permitting a full refund for tax years 2018 and 2019. The CARES Act also included provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferral of employer side social security payments, net operating loss carrybacks and carryforwards, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations, increased limitations on qualified charitable contributions, and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property. It also appropriated funds for the SBA Paycheck Protection Program loans that are forgivable in certain situations to promote continued employment, as well as Economic Injury Disaster Loans to provide liquidity to small businesses harmed by COVID-19. Management is monitoring the impact that the CARES Act may have on the Company. The CARES Act did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows for fiscal year 2020. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that the entire deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategies. Accordingly, a valuation allowance of $60.9 million was recorded as of December 31, 2020. We believe that certain of the transactions that occurred in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy in September 2012, including the rights offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former majority shareholder of Syms in accordance with the Plan, resulted in us undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, we believe that we should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, we believe that our NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. However, if we were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize our NOLs could be subject to limitation under Section 382. In addition, the TCJA limited the 30 Table of Contents deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year. However, the CARES Act suspended the 80% limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021, and allowed losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2021 to be carried back up to five years. Even if all of our regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing our NOLs, we may still be subject to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with our NOLs. This provision generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. Critical Accounting Policies a. Real Estate - Real estate assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. All costs related to the improvement or replacement of real estate properties are capitalized. Additions, renovations and improvements that enhance and/or extend the useful life of a property are also capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance, repairs and improvements that do not materially prolong the useful life of an asset are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as described in the table below: Category Terms Buildings and improvements 10 - 39 years Tenant improvements Shorter of remaining term of the lease or useful life Furniture and fixtures 5 - 8 years b. Real Estate Under Development - We capitalize certain costs related to the development and redevelopment of real estate including initial project acquisition costs, pre-construction costs and construction costs for each specific property. Additionally, we capitalize operating costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance and compensation and related costs of personnel directly involved with the specific project related to real estate under development. Capitalization of these costs begin when the activities and related expenditures commence, and ceases when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity at which time the project is placed in service and depreciation commences. Revenue earned under short-term license agreements at properties under development is offset against these capitalized costs. c. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets - We periodically review long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We consider relevant cash flow, managements strategic plans and significant decreases, if any, in the market value of the asset and other available information in assessing whether the carrying value of the assets can be recovered. When such events occur, 31 Table of Contents we compare the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted expected future cash flows, excluding interest charges, from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this comparison indicates an impairment, the carrying amount would then be compared to the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. We considered various indicators of impairment, including COVID-19 related impacts, for the year ended December 31, 2020. No provision for impairment was recorded during either of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018. d. Income Taxes - We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method as required by the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. ASC 740-10-65 addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under ASC 740-10-65, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. ASC 740-10-65 also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and increased other disclosures. As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had determined that no liabilities are required in connection with unrecognized tax positions. As of December 31, 2020, our tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2015 through December 31, 2020 are subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service. We are subject to certain federal, state and local income and franchise taxes. e. Revenue Recognition - Leases with tenants are accounted for as operating leases. Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective lease, beginning when the tenant takes possession of the space. The excess of rents recognized over amounts contractually due pursuant to the underlying leases are included in deferred rents receivable. In addition, retail leases typically provide for the reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses. As lessor, we have elected to combine the lease and non-lease component in accordance with ASC Topic 842 when reporting revenue. Lease revenues and reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses are presented in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) as rental revenues. Also, these reimbursements of expenses are recognized within revenue in the period the expenses are incurred. We assess the collectability of our accounts receivable related to tenant revenues. With the adoption of ASC Topic 842, we will apply the guidance under ASC 842 in assessing its lease payments: if collection of rents under specific operating leases is not probable, then we recognize the lesser of that leases rental income on a straight-line basis or cash received, plus variable rents as earned. Once this assessment is completed, we apply a general reserve, as provided under ASC 450-20, if applicable. f. Stock-Based Compensation We have granted stock-based compensation, which is described below in Note 11 Stock-Based Compensation to our consolidated financial statements. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, which establishes accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services and ASU No. 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which provides additional guidance related to share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods or services from nonemployees. Under the provisions of ASC 718-10-35, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award on that date, and is expensed at the grant date (for the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the related vesting periods. Accounting Standards Updates See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements. 32 Table of Contents Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on or any supplement to this Annual Report, may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions that are not historical facts, and other statements identified by words such as may, will, expects, believes, plans, estimates, potential, or continues, or the negative thereof or other and similar expressions. In addition, in some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others: the impact of COVID-19; our limited cash resources, generation of minimal revenues from operations, and our reliance on external sources of financing to fund operations in the future; our ability to execute our business plan, including as it relates to the development of our largest asset, 77 Greenwich; risks associated with our debt, including the risk of default on our obligations and debt service requirements; risks associated with covenant restrictions in our loan documents that could limit our flexibility to execute our business plan; adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market; general economic and business conditions, including with respect to real estate, and their effect on the New York City real estate market in particular; our ability to obtain additional financing and refinance existing loans and on favorable terms; our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated and investment returns from our properties planned to be developed may be less than anticipated; our ability to enter into new leases and renew existing leases with tenants at our commercial and residential properties; we may acquire properties subject to unknown or known liabilities, with limited or no recourse to the seller; risks associated with the effect that rent stabilization regulations may have on our ability to raise and collect rents; competition for new acquisitions and investments; risks associated with acquisitions and investments in owned and leased real estate; risks associated with joint ventures; our ability to maintain certain state tax benefits with respect to certain of our properties; our ability to obtain required permits, site plan approvals and/or other governmental approvals in connection with the development or redevelopment of our properties; 33 Table of Contents costs associated with complying with environmental laws and environmental contamination, as well as the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements; loss of key personnel; the effects of new tax laws; our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset future taxable income and capital gains for U.S. Federal, state and local income tax purposes; risks associated with current political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to the outbreak of contagious diseases; risks associated with breaches of information technology systems; stock price volatility and other risks associated with a lightly traded stock; stockholders may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future; a declining stock price may make it more difficult to raise capital in the future; the influence of certain significant stockholders; limitations in our charter on transactions in our common stock by substantial stockholders, designed to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, may not succeed and/or may limit the liquidity of our common stock; certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; certain provisions in our charter documents may have the effect of limiting our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for certain disputes; and unanticipated difficulties which may arise and other factors which may be outside our control or that are not currently known to us or which we believe are not material. In evaluating such statements, you should specifically consider the risks identified under the section entitled Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those contemplated by any forward looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the SEC. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of any documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the date of such document, in each case based on information available to us as of such date, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.