Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, SVF Investment Corp. 3 , SVF Investment Corp., our, us or we refer to SVF Investment Corp. 3 . The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on December 11, 2020. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. Our sponsor is SVF Sponsor III (DE) LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Sponsor). The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on March 8, 2021. On March 11, 2021, we consummated its Initial Public Offering of 32,000,000 Class A ordinary shares (the Public Shares), including the 4,000,000 Public Shares as a result of the underwriters full exercise of their over-allotment option, at an offering price of $10.00 per Public Share, generating gross proceeds of $320.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $18.1 million, of which approximately $11.2 million was for deferred underwriting commissions. On April 22, 2021, the underwriters made a payment to us in an amount of $640,000 to reimburse certain of our expenses in connection with this offering. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 1,040,000 Class A ordinary shares (the Private Placement Shares), at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Share to the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $10.4 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, management agreed that an amount equal to at least $10.00 per Public Share sold in the Initial Public Offering, including the proceeds of the Private Placement Shares, will be held in a trust account (Trust Account) with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee and invested in United States government securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, having a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of its Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Shares, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. Our initial Business Combination must be with one or more operating businesses or assets with a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the net assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the deferred underwriting commissions and taxes payable on the interest earned on the Trust Account) at the time we sign a definitive agreement in connection with the initial Business Combination. However, we will only complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or March 11, 2023 (the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay its income taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of the then-outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and the board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, we had approximately $2.0 million in its operating cash, and working capital of approximately $3.6 million. Prior to the completion of the Initial Public Offering, our liquidity needs were satisfied through the payment by our Sponsor of $25,000 for certain offering costs on our behalf in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares, and borrowings under our promissory note with our Sponsor of $300,000 as well as additional advances of approximately $114,000. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, our liquidity needs will be satisfied with the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor may, but is not obligated to, provide the Company Working Capital Loans. To date, there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loans. Based on the foregoing, we believe that our Company will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity to meet its needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, we will be using the funds held outside of the Trust Account for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the industry and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of our operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to March 11, 2021 was in preparation for our formation and the Initial Public Offering, and since our Initial Public Offering, our activity has been limited to the search for a prospective initial Business Combination. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of investment income from our investments held in the Trust Account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $524,000, which consisted of approximately $525,000 general and administrative expenses, including approximately $17,000 general and administrative expenses to related party, partly offset by approximately $1,000 in income from investments held in the Trust Account. 17 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Administrative Services Agreement Commencing on the date that our securities were first listed on the NASDAQ through the earlier of consummation of the initial Business Combination and the liquidation, we agreed to pay our Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, secretarial and administrative services provided to us by an affiliate of our Sponsor. We incurred $10,000 of such expenses in the three months end March 31, 2021. In addition, our Sponsor, officers and directors, or our respective affiliates will be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable Business Combinations. Our audit committee will review on a quarterly basis all payments that were made by us to our Sponsor, executive officers or directors, or our affiliates. Any such payments prior to an initial Business Combination will be made using funds held outside the Trust Account. We incurred approximately $7,000 of such expenses in the three months end March 31, 2021. Registration and Shareholder Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Shares, and any shares that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the Founder Shares) were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration and shareholder rights agreement signed upon the effective date of the Initial Public Offering. The holders of these securities were entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders had certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial Business Combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the prospectus to purchase up to 4,000,000 additional shares at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. The underwriters fully exercised the over-allotment option on March 11, 2021. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per unit, or $6.4 million in the, aggregate paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, $0.35 per unit, or $11.2 million in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Forward Purchase Agreement The Company entered into a forward purchase agreement (a Forward Purchase Agreement) with certain investors (the Forward Purchase Investors), which provides for the purchase of $150 million forward purchase shares (the Forward Purchase Shares), for $10.00 per share, in a private placement to close substantially concurrently with the closing of the initial Business Combination. The Forward Purchase Agreement also provided that the Forward Purchase Investor may elect to purchase up to an additional $50 million of Forward Purchase Shares, for a purchase price of $10.00 per share. Any elections to purchase up to 5,000,000 additional Forward Purchase Shares will take place in one or more private placements in such amounts and at such time as the Forward Purchase Investor determines, but no later than simultaneously with the closing of the initial Business Combination. The Company and the Forward Purchase Investors may determine, by mutual agreement, to increase the number of additional Forward Purchase Shares at any time prior to the initial Business Combination. The obligations under the Forward Purchase Agreement do not depend on whether any Class A ordinary shares are redeemed by the Public Shareholders. The forward purchase securities will be issued only in connection with the closing of the initial Business Combination. The proceeds from the sale of forward purchase securities may be used as part of the consideration to the sellers in the initial Business Combination, expenses in connection with the initial Business Combination or for working capital in the post-transaction company. 18 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Investments Held in Trust Account Our portfolio of investments is comprised solely of U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less, or investments in money market funds that invest in U.S. government securities, or a combination thereof. Our investments held in the Trust Account are classified as trading securities. Trading securities are presented on the balance sheet at fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the change in fair value of these securities is included in income from investments held in Trust Account in the unaudited condensed statement of operations. The estimated fair values of investments held in the Trust Account are determined using available market information. Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of March 31, 2021, 30,741,058 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheets. Net Income (loss) per Ordinary Shares Net income (loss) per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the periods. Our unaudited condensed statement of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per share for ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per ordinary share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss from investments held in Trust Account, net of applicable income taxes, by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption outstanding for the period. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), adjusted for income or loss from investment attributable to Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non-redeemable ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Non-redeemable ordinary shares include Founder Shares, Private Placement Shares, and non-redeemable shares of Class A ordinary shares as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable ordinary shares participate in the income or loss from investments based on non-redeemable shares proportionate interest. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.