Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report (including but not limited to factors discussed below, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others, the restrictions contained in the Plan, general economic and market conditions, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, higher than anticipated costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the SEC. Disposition of the Companys and Filenes Businesses Prior to November 2, 2011, all of the Companys and Filenes business operations consisted primarily of running retail operations. As the economy worsened, sales continued to erode and, as a result, cash flow suffered and significant operational losses continued to threaten the on-going businesses. Trade vendors tightened and/or ceased providing credit terms. As a result, the Company and Filenes projected that absent additional financing or measures to monetize certain assets, liquidity would come to an end. On November 2, 2011, Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In response to the Chapter 11 filing, the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the petition date. Net operating results from October 30, 2011 to November 1, 2011 were not material. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs through the liquidation date are provided to the extent reasonably determinable. 9 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. The Company has identified certain significant accounting policies that have been applied to the Companys financial reporting after the adoption of liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. These policies are described below. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon work required for the claims settlement process, changes in market conditions and changes in the strategy surrounding the sale of properties. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. b. Pension Expense The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared annually to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plans. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plans may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at estimated net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. d. Income Taxes To the extent that income taxes, including alternate minimum income taxes, are expected to be incurred as a result of the liquidation of the Companys properties, such costs are reflected in accrued liquidation costs, as described above. As of June 1, 2013 a total of $0.9 million has been accrued. As part of the process of estimating the amount of income taxes to be incurred during the liquidation period, management has taken into consideration the extent to which net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) are expected to be available to offset the amount of income otherwise taxable on the sale of properties. This involved a process of estimating the extent to which each property had a fair value in excess of its tax basis (a built in gain) as of the date of emerging from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. At that point in time, the Company believes there was a change in control of the Company that imposed a restriction on the extent to which the Company can use prior NOLs, except to the extent of a built in gain that existed as of the date of the change in control. Results of Operations For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at estimated settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports the estimated gains and losses on liquidation. The Company began presenting its financial statements under the liquidation basis of accounting as of October 30, 2011 and discontinued its retail operations on or about December 31, 2011. During the thirteen weeks ended June 1, 2013, the Company sold its Southfield, MI property, the building of which is 60,000 square feet, on an as-is basis. The net proceeds from the sale were approximately $2.5 million. In addition to this transaction, the Company received an additional $0.4 million in rents and other income during the thirteen weeks ended June 1, 2013. The Companys operating costs and expenses during the thirteen weeks ended June 1, 2013 were $4.0 million of which $2.2 million related to real estate related carrying costs, $1.0 million related to professional fees and $0.4 million related to payroll costs. Overhead expenses have exceeded the original projections and are outpacing the budgeted reserves, which is primarily due to professional fees. As of June 1, 2013, the net assets of the Company available to Common Shareholders was $23.4 million, slightly lower than $24.8 million as of March 2, 2013. This was the result of a decrease in the net realizable value of two properties and an increase in real estate related carrying costs offset by a decrease in estimated claims payments. The decrease in total assets from $159.1 million at March 2, 2013 to $154.1 million at June 1, 2013 was partially offset by a $3.6 million reduction in accrued expenses and accrued liquidation costs partially offset by increases in other liabilities, primarily lease settlement costs. 10 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 1, 2013, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $12.2 million. Prior to September 14, 2012, the Company used its cash and cash equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations. After September 14, 2012, the Company has used its cash and equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees and claims related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations and to fund reserves under the Plan. The Company believes that it would be able to fund its operations through its cash flows from property sales, but as noted above, the Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from cash flows. At this point, the Company believes it will require additional funds beyond those reserved to pay for its operating expenses, and it is exploring the possibility of equity and/or debt financing. Under the Plan, the proceeds of a common equity financing can be used to fund operating expenses in excess of the reserves, while the proceeds of a debt financing generally must be used to pay creditor claims. Also, the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, and he is currently considering a request from the Company for such an increase. Pursuant to the Plan, with limited exceptions, any excess cash not applied to fund operating expenses must be distributed in accordance with the priorities established in the Plan. Please see Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors for more information. Net Operating Losses The Company believes that the Rights Offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder resulted in the Company undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 382). Accordingly, the Companys NOLs that can be used to offset future income for U.S. federal income tax purposes are limited in the manner set forth in Section 382. Generally, the NOLs that can be used each year will be limited to the product of the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate and the fair market value of the Companys stock immediately before the ownership change, with certain adjustments. Any unused portion of the annual limitation may be carried forward until expiration. The Company believes that, subject to certain requirements and limitations, its annual NOL limitation may be increased by its gain on the sale, prior to 2017, of certain properties held by the Company at the time of the ownership change (i.e., September 14, 2012), to the extent of the Companys built-in gain in such properties at such change date, and subject to an aggregate increase for all years equal to the Companys aggregate net built-in gain in its assets at such change date. The Company believes that its U.S. federal NOLs as of that date were approximately $162.8 million. However, even if all of the Companys regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of the NOLs, the Company may still be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax (which imposes a tax generally equal to the amount by which 20% of a corporations alternative minimum taxable income exceeds the corporations regular tax liability, and is calculated in a manner that may reduce the benefit of NOLs) or to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. CEO Engagement Agreement As previously disclosed, subsequent to the approval and execution of the engagement agreement for CEO services between Mark D. Ettenger and the Company, Alan Cohen, the Company director appointed by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock, informed the Board of Directors that he is of the belief that, under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation and the Plan, his approval is required in order for the Company to enter into and/or perform its obligations under the engagement agreement. Mr. Cohen has not approved the engagement agreement and has indicated that he does not intend to approve it in its current form (which is attached to the Companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 2, 2013). The Company, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Ettenger are engaged in discussion attempting to resolve the issue. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There are no proposed or recently issued accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Company.