Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. 6 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to the Company After the Steel Transaction, we have limited cash resources, our only source of funds is the Steel Promissory Note, and are reliant on external sources of capital to fund ongoing operations. Our prior revenue generating activities did not produce sufficient funds for profitable operations and working capital. Accordingly, our continued operation will require raising additional capital on acceptable terms. We have relied and will continue to rely substantially upon equity and debt financing and draws under the Steel Promissory Note to fund our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of capital will be available to us on commercially favorable terms. In addition, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, because of a low stock price, unfavorable market conditions or otherwise, will affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. If we are unable to raise capital on market terms, our ability to run our operations and/or grow through new acquisitions and investments, and thus become profitable, will be materially adversely impacted. We have not generated an operating profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long-term viability cannot be assured. Since our formation, we have generated limited revenues and had negative cash flow from operations. The development of our business plan has required, and may continue to require, substantial capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities. We are subject to risks associated with TPHGreenwich, including that we may not receive any distributions from TPHGreenwich. Joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present for investments made or owned solely, including the possibility that our joint venture partner might become bankrupt, or may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. We own a 95% interest in TPHGreenwich, with the JV Investor owning the other 5% interest. However, under the Amended and Restated JV Operating Agreement, JV Investor, in its capacity as manager of TPHGreenwich, manages, controls and conducts the affairs of TPHGreenwich, subject only to certain limited major decisions set forth in the Amended and Restated JV Operating Agreement. In addition, distributions under the Amended and Restated JV Operating Agreement first will be paid to the Investor until it has received its initial distribution amount in full (including, but not limited to, all amounts due under the CCF and 77G Mezzanine Loan), following which such distributions will be distributed pro rata pursuant to the members respective percentage interests in TPHGreenwich. The Company may not receive any distributions from TPHGreenwich, including if the JV Investor does not receive repayment of its initial distribution amount in full or if the Asset Management Agreement is terminated, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. TPHGreenwichs revenues and the value of its portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in leasable real estate in connection with TPHGreenwichs existing retail and residential properties. These risks include the ability of TPHGreenwich to secure leases with new tenants, renew leases with existing tenants, the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove or certain upgrades that may be needed should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenants quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation, and potentially, as occurred at 237 11th, damages arising from defective construction. The occurrence of any of these events, particularly with respect to leases at the commercial real estate property, or issues that affect numerous residential units, could adversely impact, and in the case of 237 11th, has adversely impacted, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if TPHGreenwichs competitors offer space at net effective rental rates below our current net effective rental rates or market rates, TPHGreenwich may lose current or potential tenants to other properties in our markets. Additionally, 7 Table of Contents TPHGreenwich may need to reduce net effective rental rates below current rates or offer incentives in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their leases or to attract new tenants. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected as a result of these factors. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business would adversely affect our business. Our ability to continue to operate depends in large part on our ability to retain key personnel. Key personnel who have already left or are scheduled to leave would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future tax payments may be limited as a result of future transactions. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $329.0 million of federal NOLs and $291.3 million of state NOLs and New York State and New York City prior NOL conversion subtraction pools of approximately $27.9 million and $22.9 million, respectively. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), limits the ability of a company to utilize its NOLs after an ownership change. For purposes of Section 382, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the stock of the company owned by persons holding 5% or more of the stock increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three year lookback period. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on our use of NOLs is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change. If we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize our NOLs would be subject to significant limitations. In addition, the 2017 tax legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) limited the deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year, and eliminated the ability of taxpayers to carryback such NOLs to prior years. Political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to outbreaks of contagious diseases could have an adverse effect on us. We cannot predict how current and future political and economic uncertainty, including uncertainty related to taxation and increases in interest rates, will affect TPHGreenwichs critical tenants, joint venture partners, lenders, financial institutions and general economic conditions, including consumer confidence and the volatility of the stock market and real estate market. In addition, we cannot predict the potential outbreak of contagious diseases in the future. These issues may cause consumers to postpone discretionary spending in response to tighter credit, reduced consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, resulting in a downturn in the business of TPHGreenwichs tenants and an impact on potential purchases of our residential condominium units. In the event political and economic uncertainty results in financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Each of these could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, vendors and employees. We also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. 8 Table of Contents We may be deemed to be a transient investment company. We are not engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and we do not hold ourselves out as being engaged in those activities. However, under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, a company may be deemed an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act if the value of its investment securities is more than 40% of its total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. In connection with the Recapitalization Transactions, the JV Investor acquired a five percent (5%) interest in and was appointed the initial manager of TPHGreenwich, which was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company holding directly or indirectly substantially all of the Companys non-cash assets prior to the Recapitalization Transactions. Since we no longer hold a controlling interest in TPHGreenwich, the membership interest we hold in the JV could be deemed under the Investment Company Act to be an investment in investment securities, and, if such investment were to exceed 40% of our total assets, exclusive of U.S. government securities cash items on an unconsolidated basis, and accordingly, we could be deemed to be an inadvertent investment company under such section 3(A)(1)(C). In that case, whether or not another exemption or exclusion from the Investment Company Act is available, we may choose to treat the Company as a transient investment company under Rule 3A-2 under the Investment Company Act. Rule 3a-2 under the Investment Company Act, allows a transient investment company a grace period of one year from the earlier of (a) the date on which an issuer owns securities and/or cash having a value exceeding 50% of the issuers total assets on either a consolidated or unconsolidated basis and (b) the date on which an issuer owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuers total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis to become compliant with Section 3(A)(1)(C) or otherwise find another exemption or exclusion from the definition of an investment company. We believe that for purposes of valuing the membership interest we hold in the JV, the substantial indebtedness attributable to the real property assets owned directly or indirectly by the JV would materially reduce the value of such membership interest. In the event we are deemed to be an inadvertent investment company as a result of the Recapitalization Transactions, we believe would qualify for the grace period. We may take actions to cause any investment securities held by us to be less than 40% of our total assets, which may include acquiring assets, engaging in one or more strategic transactions or liquidating our investment securities. As Rule 3a-2 is available to a company no more than once every three years, and assuming no other exclusion were available to us, we would have to keep within the 40% limit for at least three years after the grace period expires under such rule. This may limit our ability to make certain investments or enter into joint ventures that could otherwise have a positive impact on our earnings. In any event, we do not intend to become an investment company engaged in the business of investing and trading securities. Classification as an investment company under the Investment Company Act requires registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). If an investment company fails to register, it would have to stop doing almost all business, and its contracts would become void or potentially voidable. Registration is time consuming and restrictive and would require a restructuring of our operations, and we would be very constrained in the kind of business we could do as a registered investment company. Further, we would become subject to substantial regulation concerning management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons and portfolio composition, and would need to file reports under the Investment Company Act regime. The cost of such compliance would result in our incurring substantial additional expenses, and the failure to register if required would have a materially adverse impact to conduct our operations. Additional Risks Related to TPHGreenwich and the Properties TPHGreenwich and its subsidiaries are subject to leverage and face risks generally associated with such debt, including an increased risk of default on such entitys obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have incurred substantial indebtedness in furtherance of our activities, at both the parent company level and subsidiary level, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service 9 Table of Contents requirements, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Following the Recapitalization Transactions, a majority of the indebtedness is held by TPHGreenwich and/or its subsidiaries. As a result, TPHGreenwich is subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that TPHGreenwich may fail to repay or refinance existing debt as it matures, which may result in forced disposition of assets on disadvantageous terms or have other adverse consequences, and the risk that if TPHGreenwich refinances any of its debt, it may do so on refinancing terms less favorable than the terms of the existing debt. Covenants in the loan agreements could limit TPHGreenwichs flexibility and adversely affect its financial condition. The loan agreements contain a number of financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on debt, liens, business activities, equity repurchases, distributions and dividends, disposition of assets and transactions with affiliates, as well as financial covenants regarding loan to value and net worth. These covenants may limit TPHGreenwichs flexibility to incur additional debt. If TPHGreenwich fails to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, it would be in default under these agreements and the indebtedness could be declared due and payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their interests against existing collateral. If TPHGreenwich were to default under the loan agreements, its financial condition would be adversely affected. The Legacy Investor is the lender under the CCF, and an affiliate of the Legacy Investor and JV Investor is the lender under the 77G Mezzanine Loan, which could create a conflict of interest. The Legacy Investor is the lender under the CCF, and an affiliate of the Legacy Investor and JV Investor is the lender under the 77G Mezzanine Loan. The JV Investor manages and controls TPHGreenwich, and as a result the Investor controls both the borrower and lender under these loan agreements, and accordingly conflicts of interest could arise. There is no assurance that any future actions by or transactions with the Investor or any of its affiliates will be on the same terms as those available with unaffiliated third parties or that these actions, agreements or relationships will be maintained at all or will not otherwise impact the Company in a manner that is adverse to us or our stockholders. A significant part of TPHGreenwichs current business plan is focused on completion of and the sale of condominiums at 77 Greenwich. An inability to execute this business plan due to adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market or otherwise would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The business plan of TPHGreenwich includes in particular completion of the development of and the sale of condominiums at 77 Greenwich, which currently is its largest asset. As a result, TPHGreenwichs, and in turn our, distribution of earnings from investments, are heavily dependent on the success of implementing the business plan for 77 Greenwich. 77 Greenwich consists of 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, in addition to a retail condominium unit and a New York City elementary school condominium unit. A variety of factors determine New York City residential condominium trends and will impact the sales and pricing of the residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich. These factors include, among others, available supply, changes in interest rates, the availability of home mortgages, foreign exchange rates, foreign buyer patterns, local employment trends, and prices and velocity of sales. Sales of residential condominium units in general, and in particular in New York City, have historically experienced greater volatility than detached single family houses, which may expose TPHGreenwich to more risk. These and other factors fluctuate over time. Based on a number of reports, there is a historically high number of unsold units in newly constructed luxury residential condominiums in New York City, which has resulted in demand and pricing pressures. When we commenced sales in the spring of 2019, the New York City market, in particular downtown Manhattan, was in a period of softness. This was exacerbated by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to current market conditions in New York City, several competing residential condominium projects located in downtown Manhattan, specifically in the Financial District, have been put on hold while others have restarted construction. The status of unsold residential condominium units in 2025 and beyond is inherently uncertain. Closings on sales commenced in September 2021 and are ongoing. An inability to successfully execute the business plan with respect to 77 Greenwich would likely have a material adverse effect on TPHGreenwichs financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Due to the TPHGreenwichs core business of investing in, developing and operating real estate assets, there is an inherent risk that the development and sales of residential condominiums may be subject to unknown potential changes in internal and external financial and economic conditions, such as inflation and rising interest rates, and general market conditions which could impact the Company's business and potential buyers of the residential condominiums for sale. The Company believes it is possible for TPHGreenwich to incur real estate impairment charges in the future in the event these conditions deteriorate. Investment returns from 77 Greenwich may be less than anticipated. The development of 77 Greenwich is exposed to risks, including the following: TPHGreenwich may sell residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich at prices that are less than were projected; the velocity of condominium sales at 77 Greenwich may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in the investment being less profitable than expected or not profitable at all; and operating expenses and real estate taxes may be greater than projected, resulting in the investment being less profitable than were expected. TPHGreenwichs investment in property development for 77 Greenwich may be more costly than anticipated. The current development and construction activities, including with respect to 77 Greenwich, may be exposed to the following risks: TPHGreenwich may incur construction costs for a development project that exceed our original estimates due to increases in interest rates, increased materials, labor, leasing or other costs, and increases in unforeseen costs such as those related to the supply chain disruption, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents or condominium unit sales prices, as applicable, may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; TPHGreenwich may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require it to abandon its activities entirely with respect to a project; TPHGreenwich may expend funds on and devote managements time to projects which it does not complete; TPHGreenwich may be unable to complete construction and/or leasing of its rental properties and sales of its condominium projects (currently limited to 77 Greenwich) on schedule, or at all due to unforeseen construction issues; and TPHGreenwich may suspend development projects after construction has begun due to changes in economic conditions or other factors, and this may result in the write-off of costs, payment of additional costs or increases in overall costs when the development project is restarted. TPHGreenwich may be unable to lease vacant space, renew current leases, or re-lease space as current leases expire. Leases at the properties owned by TPHGreenwich may not be renewed or such properties may not be re-leased at favorable rental rates. If the rental rates for the properties decrease, tenants do not renew their leases or TPHGreenwich does not re-lease a significant portion of available space, tenant defaults or space that is currently unoccupied, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources that compete with TPHGreenwich in seeking tenants who it desires to lease space in the properties. 11 Table of Contents The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of the major tenants at the commercial real estate properties that causes them to reject their leases, or to not renew their leases as they expire, or renew at lower rental rates, may adversely affect TPHGreenwichs cash flows and property values. In addition, retailers at the properties face increasing competition from e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, direct mail and telemarketing, which could reduce rents payable to TPHGreenwich and reduce TPHGreenwichs ability to attract and retain tenants at the properties leading to increased vacancy rates. In addition, if TPHGreenwich is unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. The properties owned, or previously owned, by TPHGreenwich may be subject to known and unknown liabilities and with limited or no recourse to the seller. Properties owned by TPHGreenwich may be subject to known or unknown liabilities with no or minimal recourse to the seller. As a result, if a property is damaged, TPHGreenwich may need to pay to have it repaired, and its ability to recover any such payments through insurance, indemnities, litigation or otherwise is uncertain. The Company acquired one property subject to unknown construction defects due to water penetration in the walls at 237 11th, which was subsequently contributed to TPHGreenwich in the Recapitalization Transactions (and subsequently sold). During the pendency of repairs at 237 11th, units were unable to be leased, and following completion of repairs, they needed to be re-leased. If a liability was asserted against us or TPHGreenwich arising from the ownership of a property, we or TPHGreenwich might have to pay substantial sums to settle it. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for repair of damaged properties or faulty construction; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination and/or repair or other remediation of construction defects. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our cash flow, even if some or all of the costs are ultimately borne by a third party, and the impact could be material. Multi-family residential properties may be subject to rent stabilization regulations, which limit TPHGreenwichs ability to raise rents above specified maximum amounts and could give rise to claims by tenants that their rents exceed such specified maximum amounts. The Rent Stabilization Law and Code imposes rent control or rent stabilization on certain apartment buildings. The rent stabilization regulations applicable to TPHGreenwichs multi-family residential properties set maximum rates for annual rent increases, entitle tenants to receive required services from TPHGreenwich and entitle tenants to have their leases renewed. The limitations established by present or future rent stabilization regulations may impair TPHGreenwichs ability to maintain rents at market levels at its properties subject to such regulations. Pursuant to the Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019, which is a set of New York State laws, vacancy lease increases were eliminated, whereby the landlord was permitted to increase the rent by as much as 20% for a tenant moving into a vacant apartment, to which significant increases in rent for New York City properties were historically attributed. With respect to certain types of properties in New York City, solely by virtue of the real estate tax exemption under RPTL Section 421-a, the Rent Guidelines Board of New York City, approves renewal lease rent increases. In 2024, the Rent Guidelines Board approved a 2.75% increase on 12-month lease renewals and a 5.25% increase for 24-month lease renewals. 12 Table of Contents The application of rent stabilization to apartments in TPHGreenwichs multi-family residential properties will limit the amount of rent TPHGreenwich is able to collect, which could have a material adverse effect on its ability to fully take advantage of the investments that it is making in the properties. In addition, there can be no assurances that changes to rent stabilization laws will not have a similar or greater negative impact on TPHGreenwichs ability to collect rents. TPHGreenwich may not receive or be able to maintain certain tax benefits if it is not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development. TPHGreenwich may not receive or be able to maintain certain existing or anticipated tax benefits related to the 237 11th property if it is not in compliance with certain requirements of the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD). This property currently benefits from a real estate tax exemption under New York Real Property Tax Law (the RPTL) Section 421-a, as a result of a specified percentage of the units in such building being designated as affordable rate units or market rate units and/or subject to rent stabilization guidelines, among other requirements. Section 421-a of the New York RPTL provides an exemption from real estate taxes on the amount of the assessed value of newly constructed improvements if certain requirements are met. A property cannot maintain or continue to receive Section 421-a tax benefits without HPDs determination that all Section 421-a eligibility requirements have and continue to be met. Although HPD has issued final Certificates of Eligibility with respect to the Section 421-a tax benefits for 237 11th and TPHGreenwich is currently in compliance with all applicable Section 421-a requirements for this property, there can be no assurance that compliance with the Section 421-a requirements for this property will continue to be maintained. If TPHGreenwich is not able to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program, as applicable to this property, HPD may find that such property is ineligible to receive the tax exemption benefits related to the Section 421-a partial tax exemption program. TPHGreenwichs ability to develop or redevelop the properties and enter into new leases with tenants will depend on its obtaining certain permits, site plan approvals and other governmental approvals from local municipalities, which it may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. In order to develop or redevelop the properties, TPHGreenwich will be required to obtain certain permits, site plan approvals or other governmental approvals from local municipalities. TPHGreenwich may not be able to secure all the necessary permits or approvals on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent TPHGreenwich from developing or redeveloping the properties according to its business plan. Additionally, potential acquirers or tenants may also need to obtain certain permits or approvals in order to utilize the properties in the manner they intend to do so. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. TPHGreenwichs inability to obtain permits and approvals to develop or redevelop the properties, or the inability of potential purchasers and tenants of the properties to obtain necessary permits and approvals, could severely and adversely affect our business. TPHGreenwich may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair the ability to lease and/or sell real estate. TPHGreenwichs operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair TPHGreenwichs ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. TPHGreenwich is also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. TPHGreenwich could incur fines for environmental compliance and be 13 Table of Contents held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from the properties. Each of the properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to TPHGreenwich. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The ADA generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These rules are subject to interpretation and change. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. If, under the ADA, TPHGreenwich is required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of the operating properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If TPHGreenwich fails to comply with these requirements, it could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect TPHGreenwichs cash flow and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. Our common stock, currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter (OTC) Markets, is thinly traded. Because our common stock is thinly traded, even small trades can have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, especially when there are limited buyers in the market. We cannot assure stockholders that an active market for our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or, if developed, that it will be sustained. As a result of these factors, stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock. Volatility in the market price of our common stock and lack of liquidity may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for such shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: our ability to raise additional capital to fund our cash needs, obtain additional financing and refinance existing loans and on favorable terms or evaluate and realize the anticipated benefits of our recently completed strategic transaction; the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock including at prices that are below the then-current trading price of our common stock; changes in the real estate markets in which TPHGreenwich operates, especially New York City; TPHGreenwichs ability to develop or redevelop or successfully sell units in 77 Greenwich or at other properties in the future; volatility in global and/or U.S. equities markets; our financial results or those of other companies in our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; 14 Table of Contents changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from inflation, rising interest rates, tariffs, war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; changes in generally accepted accounting principles, policies, guidance, or interpretations; and other factors described in our filings with the SEC, including among others in connection with the risks noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, while our common stock remains thinly traded, small sales or purchases may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate dramatically up or down without regard to our financial health or business prospects. Downward fluctuations can impair, and have impaired, our ability to raise equity capital on acceptable terms. We currently have fewer than 300 stockholders of record and, therefore, terminated the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act and suspended being a U.S. public company with reporting obligations. Under the Steel Stock Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to use reasonable efforts to complete the deregistration from the reporting obligations under Section 12 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act, including all associated reporting obligations, Section 12(g)(4) of the Exchange Act allows for the registration of any class of securities to be terminated after a company files a certification with the SEC that the number of holders of record of such class of security is fewer than 300 persons. As of February 18, 2025, there were 128 stockholders of record of our common stock. This does not include the number of shareholders that hold shares in street name through banks, brokers and other financial institutions. Accordingly, we were eligible to deregister our common stock and suspend our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and, on February 18, 2025, filed a Form 15 with the SEC. As a result, we are no longer required to comply with U.S. public company disclosure requirements under the Exchange Act, including, but not limited to, annual and quarterly report filings, proxy statement filings and filings by insiders to disclose the acquisition and disposition of our securities. This annual report on Form 10-K is our final periodic report filed under the Exchange Act. Stockholders have experienced dilution of their ownership interests upon the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock. We may issue additional equity securities in capital raising transactions or otherwise, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 120,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 79,999,997 shares of common stock, two shares of a class of preferred stock (which were redeemed in accordance with their terms and may not be reissued), one share of a class of special stock and 40,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. As of December 31, 2024, there were 65,314,726 shares of our common stock and one share of special stock outstanding. We have in the past and we may in the future raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. Any future issuance of our equity or equity-linked securities may dilute then-current stockholders ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants, as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions and investments, development, redevelopment and repositioning of assets, or for other business purposes. Our board of directors may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common stock without stockholder approval, unless the approval of our common stockholders is required by applicable law, rule or regulation, or our certificate of incorporation. The terms of preferred or other equity or equity-linked securities we may issue in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, anti-dilution protection, pre-emptive rights, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, among other terms, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our previously outstanding warrants also contained these types of provisions. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price or have conversion or exercise prices below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. 15 Table of Contents A decline in the price of our common stock, including as a result of a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. A decline in the price of our common stock, whether as a result of market conditions, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate, which would impair our ability to raise capital. Capital-raising transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restrictions on resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock could fall. A significant number of restricted shares previously issued by us had been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the SEC. More than 60% of our shares of common stock are currently controlled by three of our stockholders who may have the ability to influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. More than 60% of our shares of common stock are controlled by three of our stockholders, including approximately 40% of our common stock being owned by Steel Purchaser since February 18, 2025. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders for a vote. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. The holder of our special stock and the Steel Purchaser each have rights to appoint directors to our board of directors and, consequently, the ability to exert influence over us. In connection with the investment in us by Third Avenue Trust, on behalf of Third Avenue Real Estate Value Fund (Third Avenue), Third Avenue was issued one share of a class of special stock and our certificate of incorporation was amended to provide that, subject to the other terms and conditions of our certificate of incorporation, from the issuance of the one share of special stock and until the Special Stock Ownership Threshold of 2,345,000 shares of common stock is no longer satisfied, Third Avenue has the right to elect one director to the board of directors. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Steel Purchaser Stockholders Agreement, so long as Steel Purchaser owns at least 20% of the Companys outstanding capital stock, the Company will take all action reasonably necessary to cause the Board to remain at five (5) members, which shall include (A) one (1) director who shall qualify as independent and is mutually agreed upon by Purchaser and the Company and (B) two (2) directors designated solely by Steel Purchaser. As a result, for so long as these board appointment rights are in effect, Third Avenue and Steel Purchaser may be able to exert influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our best interests or the best interests of the other stockholders. In order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation includes certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOLs and certain other tax attributes for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our certificate of incorporation contains certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of our common stock and may have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our stock generally. 16 Table of Contents We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be devoted to our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and such other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investors investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. In addition to the matters identified in the risk factors above relating to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, these provisions include: a classified board of directors with two-year staggered terms; limitations in our certificate of incorporation on acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock designed to protect our NOLs and certain other tax attributes; and authorization for blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock and result in the market price of the common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain actions or proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to make a claim against the Company, our directors, officers, and employees. The Companys certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on the Companys behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against the Company arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Companys certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against the Company that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This provision is not intended to apply to claims arising under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. To the extent the provision could be construed to apply to such claims, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce the provision in such respect, and the Companys stockholders will not be deemed to have waived the Companys compliance with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The exclusive forum provision may discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to submit claims in a judicial forum that they find favorable and may create additional costs as a result. If a court were to determine the exclusive forum provision to be inapplicable and unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs in conjunction with our efforts to resolve the dispute in an alternative jurisdiction, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Because we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, non-U.S. holders of our common stock could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from its sale, exchange or other disposition. Because we are a U.S. real property holding corporation, which we refer to as "USRPHC," under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 and applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, which we refer to collectively as the "FIRPTA Rules," unless an exception applies, certain non-U.S. investors in our common stock could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of shares of our common stock, and such non-U.S. investors could be required to file a United States federal income tax return. In addition, the purchaser of such common stock may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase price and remit such amount to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. 17 Table of Contents Under the FIRPTA Rules, we are a USRPHC because our interests in U.S. real property comprise at least 50% of the fair market value of our assets. Our common stock is now traded on the OTC markets. As a result, our common stock is no longer treated as "regularly traded on an established securities market" (within the meaning of the FIRPTA Rules). As a result, (i) a non-U.S. investor who, actually or constructively, holds no more than 5% of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock under the FIRPTA Rules, and (ii) a purchaser of such stock from a non-U.S. investor may be required to withhold any portion of the purchase price of such stock, depending on the percentage of our common stock held by such non-U.S. investor. Any of our common stockholders that are non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisors to determine the consequences of investing in our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY Risk management and strategy Our accounting and financial reporting platforms and related systems, and those that we, or our third-party service providers, offer to TPHGreenwichs tenants are necessary for the operation of our business. We use these platforms and systems, among others, to manage our tenant relationships, for accounting and financial reporting, and for other recordkeeping purposes. Our business operations and financial reporting rely on the secure collection, storage, transmission, and other processing of proprietary, confidential, and sensitive data. We have implemented and maintain various information security processes designed to identify, assess and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats to our critical computer networks, third-party hosted services, hardware and software, and our critical data, including financial information and other confidential information that is proprietary, strategic or competitive in nature, and tenant data (Information Systems and Data). We rely on our management and third-party service providers to manage any perceived cybersecurity threats and risks. Depending on the environment, we implement and maintain various technical, physical, and organizational measures, processes, standards, and/or policies designed to manage and mitigate material risks from cybersecurity threats to our Information Systems and Data, including incident detection and response, internal controls within our accounting and financial reporting functions, network security controls, access controls, physical security, systems monitoring, and employee training. We work with third parties from time to time that assist us in identifying, assessing, and managing cybersecurity risks, including professional services firms and information technology consulting and support firms. To operate our business, we utilize certain third-party service providers to perform a significant portion of our critical functions. We seek to engage reliable, reputable service providers that maintain cybersecurity programs. To address risks associated with third-party service providers, we will review and assess the cybersecurity controls of our third-party service providers and make changes to our business processes to manage these risks. This approach is designed to mitigate risks related to data breach or other security incidents originating from third-party service providers. We are not aware of any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any cybersecurity incidents, which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our company, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Governance The Board holds oversight responsibility over our strategy and risk management, including material risks related to cybersecurity threats. This oversight is executed directly by the Board through management.Our management, represented by our Chief Financial Officer, Steven Kahn, leads our cybersecurity risk assessment and management processes and oversees their implementation and maintenance.Mr. Kahn is an experienced compliance and risk management professional and has served as Chief Financial Officer since September 2015. Mr. Kahn currently oversees key functions for the Companys accounting, finance, and treasury strategies, including risk management. In addition, Mr. Kahn leads our cybersecurity risk oversight and the development and enhancement of internal controls designed to prevent, detect, 18 Table of Contents address, and mitigate the risk of cyber incidents.Our management will report any serious cybersecurity incidents to our Board. Item 2. PROPERTIES The Companys sole investment consists of its 95% ownership interest in TPHGreenwich. Below is certain information regarding the real estate properties held by TPHGreenwich as of December 31, 2024. Building Size (estimated Leased at rentable Number of December 31, Property Location Type of Property square feet) Units 2024 Owned Locations 77 Greenwich, New York, New York (1) Residential condominium units for sale N/A Paramus, New Jersey (2) Retail 77,000 100 % 237 11th Street, Brooklyn, New York (3) Multi-family 80,000 105 96 % Total 157,000 105 (1) 77 Greenwich. TPHGreenwich has substantially completed the construction of an over 300,000 gross square foot mixed-use building that corresponds to the approximate total of 233,000 zoning square feet. The property consists of 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, 7,500 square feet of retail space, almost all of which is street level, a 476-seat elementary school serving New York City District 2, including the adaptive reuse of the landmarked Robert and Anne Dickey House. As of March 3, 2023, this property had received its temporary certificates of occupancy (TCOs) for 100% of the residential condominium units, lobby, Cloud Club (lounge, terrace, game room, dining room, kitchen and kids play room), mechanical rooms, and portions of the cellar (including the bike and storage rooms.) There have been closings on 46 residential condominium units through December 31, 2024, and TPHGreenwich has closed on the sale of four more residential condominium units subsequent with 40 remaining units to sell as of March 24, 2025. Prior to the Recapitalization Transactions, we entered into an agreement with the New York City School Construction Authority (the SCA), whereby we constructed a school sold to the SCA as part of our condominium development at 77 Greenwich. Pursuant to the agreement, the SCA agreed to pay us $41.5 million for the purchase of their condominium unit and reimburse us for the costs associated with constructing the school, including a construction supervision fee of approximately $5.0 million. Payments for construction are being made by the SCA to the general contractor in installments as construction on their condominium unit progresses. Payments to us for the land and construction supervision fee commenced in January 2018 and continued through October 2019 for the land and will continue through completion of the SCA buildout for the construction supervision fee. An aggregate of $46.4 million had been paid to us by the SCA as of February 14, 2024, with approximately $176,000 remaining to be paid to TPHGreenwich. We have also received an aggregate of $56.1 million in reimbursable construction costs from the SCA through February 14, 2024. In April 2020, the SCA closed on the purchase of the school condominium unit from us, at which point title transferred to the SCA. The SCA has completed the buildout of the interior space, which is a public elementary school with approximately 476 seats. The school received its final TCO and opened to students in September 2022. There is an inherent risk that the development and sales of residential condominiums may be subject to unknown potential changes in internal and external financial and economic conditions, such as inflation and rising interest rates, and general market conditions, which could impact the business and potential buyers of the residential condominiums for sale. In addition, construction work is ongoing and there continue to be delays and issues the impact of which is not yet known. We believe it is possible under generally accepted accounting practices for TPHGreenwich to incur real estate impairment charges in the future in the event these conditions deteriorate. 19 Table of Contents (2) Paramus Property. The Paramus property consists of a one-story and partial two-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet, for approximately 77,000 total square feet of rentable space. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building is leased to Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: RH) pursuant to a license agreement that began on June 1, 2016, is terminable upon three months notice, and currently is scheduled to end on March 31, 2025. The outparcel building was leased under a short-term license agreement with a tenant whose lease began on October 1, 2023, and ends June 30, 2025. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres. On February 4, 2025, TPHGreenwich sold the Paramus Property for a gross sales price of $15.6 million. After repayment of the underlying loan of $11.7 million and closing costs, TPHGreenwich received approximately $2.9 million in net sale cash proceeds. (3) 237 11th Street.In 2018, we acquired a 105-unit, 12-story multi-family apartment building encompassing approximately 93,000 gross square feet (approximately 80,000 rentable square feet) located at 237 11th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, New York for a purchase price of $81.2 million, excluding transaction costs of approximately $0.7 million. The property also includes 6,264 square feet of retail space, all of which is leased to Starbucks Inc. (NQGS:SBUX), an oral surgeon and a health and wellness tenant. Located on the border of the Park Slope and Gowanus neighborhoods of Brooklyn, the property is located one block from the 4th Avenue/9th Street subway station. The 237 11th property offers an array of modern amenities that surpass what is available in the neighborhoods brownstone housing stock. The property also benefits from a 15-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Although all apartments are market rate units, they are subject to New York Citys rent stabilization law during the remaining term of the Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Due to the approval of the Gowanus up-zoning, this property benefitted to the extent of approximately 30,000 square feet of air rights. Due to water damage in apartment units and other property at 237 11th, we submitted a notice of claim to our insurance carrier for property damage and business interruption (lost revenue) in September 2018. The insurance carrier subsequently disclaimed coverage for the losses and we filed a complaint against the carrier alleging that it breached the insurance policy by denying coverage. We also filed legal claims against the seller, its parent company, and the general contractor (who, thereafter, impleaded into that litigation several subcontractors who performed work on the property), and we subsequently reached a settlement of that action. Management also expects that TPHGreenwich and/or its affiliates will recover some portion of the cost incurred to repair the property through the litigation and/or settlement negotiations with its insurer, although the amount of damages that may be recoverable in litigation and/or potential settlement negotiations are uncertain at this time, as is the timing of receipt of any such payments. TPHGreenwich will continue to pursue all legal remedies against the insurance carrier. On March 14, 2025, TPHGreenwich sold 237 11th for a gross sales price of $68.5 million. After repayment of the underlying loan of $60.0 million and closing costs, TPHGreenwich received approximately $6.0 million in net sale cash proceeds. Corporate Headquarters The Company leases its corporate headquarters in New York, New York (approximately 6,271 square feet). The lease expires on March 31, 2025. Following the expiration of the lease, the Companys principal place of business will be 590 Madison Avenue, 32nd floor, New York, NY, 10022. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the normal course of business, we are party to routine legal proceedings. Based on advice of counsel and available information, including current status or stage of proceedings, and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from litigation we are currently involved in will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the OTC. The trading symbol of our common stock is TPHS. Outstanding Common Stock and Holders As of March 24, 2025, we had 73,467,053 shares issued and 66,247,266 shares outstanding and there were approximately 129 record holders of our common stock. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 6. (RESERVED) Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion related to our consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A detailed discussion of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 is not included herein and can be found in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section in the 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 29, 2024. Overview We are a real estate holding, investment, development and asset management company. As of December 31, 2024, our sole investment is a 95% ownership interest in TPHGreenwich, which is accounted for as an equity method investment. As part of a series of transactions described below, on February 14, 2024, TPHGreenwich Holdings LLC (TPHGreenwich), a previously 100% owned subsidiary of ours, became owned 95% by us, with an affiliate of the lender under our corporate credit facility (the Corporate Credit Facility or CCF) owning a 5% interest in, and acting as manager of, such entity. This entity holds our previously consolidated real estate assets and related liabilities, which prior to the sales described below, includes (i) the property located at 77 Greenwich Street in Lower Manhattan (77 Greenwich), which is substantially complete as a mixed-use project consisting of a 90-unit residential condominium tower, retail space and a New York City elementary school, (ii) a 105-unit, 12-story multi-family property located at 237 11th Street in Brooklyn, New York (237 11th), and (iii) a property occupied by retail tenants in Paramus, New Jersey (the Paramus Property). On February 4, 2025, TPHGreenwich sold the Paramus Property for a gross sales price of $15.6 million. After repayment of the underlying loan of $11.7 million and closing costs, TPHGreenwich received approximately $2.9 million in net sale cash proceeds. The Companys guarantee of the loan underlying the Paramus Property was retired upon the sale. On March 14, 2025, TPHGreenwich sold 237 11th for a gross sales price of $68.5 million. After repayment of the underlying loan of $60.0 million and closing costs, TPHGreenwich received approximately $6.0 million in net sale cash proceeds. 21 Table of Contents We also control a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, a legacy of our predecessor, Syms Corp. (Syms), including FilenesBasement.com, our rights to the Stanley Blacker brand, as well as the intellectual property associated with the Running of the Brides event and the An Educated Consumer is Our Best Customer slogan. Recapitalization Transactions On February 14, 2024, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 5, 2024 (as amended, the Legacy Stock Purchase Agreement), between the Company, TPHS Lender LLC, the lender under the Companys Corporate Credit Facility ( TPHS Lender) and TPHS Investor LLC, an affiliate of TPHS Lender (the JV Investor, and together with TPHS Lender, the Legacy Investor), pursuant to which (i) the Legacy Investor purchased 25,112,245 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share of the Company (the Legacy Investor Shares) for a purchase price of $0.30 per share, (ii) the Company and the JV Investor entered into an amended and restated limited liability company operating agreement of TPHGreenwich (the JV Operating Agreement), pursuant to which the JV Investor was appointed the initial manager of, and acquired a five percent (5%) interest in, TPHGreenwich, as described in more detail below, and TPHGreenwich continues to own, indirectly, all of the previously consolidated real property assets and liabilities of the Company, and (iii) TPHGreenwich entered into an asset management agreement (the Asset Management Agreement) with a newly formed subsidiary of the Company (the TPH Manager), pursuant to which TPHGreenwich hired the TPH Manager to act as initial asset manager for TPHGreenwich for an annual management fee, as described in more detail below (collectively, the Recapitalization Transactions). Under the Recapitalization Transactions, the real estate assets and related liabilities as well as the Corporate Credit Facility became part of TPHGreenwich, with the Company retaining the intellectual property and a 95% equity interest in TPHGreenwich. In addition, the maturity date of each of the mortgage loan agreement (the 77G Mortgage Loan) and mezzanine loan agreement (the 77G Mezzanine Loan) for 77 Greenwich, both of which were assumed by TPHGreenwich, was extended to October 23, 2025 with an option to extend for an additional year, and the maturity date of the Corporate Credit Facility was extended to June 30, 2026. In connection with the Steel Partners transaction in February 2025 (as defined and described below), the Legacy Stock Purchase Agreement was partially terminated by the Company and the TPHS Lender (including and cancellation of the TPHS Lenders right to receive penny warrants of the Company equivalent to 5% of the Companys Common Stock), except for provisions of the Legacy Stock Purchase Agreement which would cause an impairment or termination of the TPHS Lenders representation and warranty insurance policy obtained. Recent Developments Steel Partners Transaction See Item 1, BusinessSteel Partners Transaction for more information regarding the Steel Partners Transactions. Charter Amendment In February 2025, the Company filed an Amendment to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State (the Amendment). The Amendment extended certain transfer restrictions set forth in the Companys charter to until February 25, 2035. A copy of the Amendment is filed as exhibit 3.3 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Managements Plans and Objectives Following the Recapitalization Transactions, our primary business is owning a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, as well as a 95% interest in TPHGreenwich. As discussed herein, we may distribute the interest in TPHGreenwich to our shareholders in 2025. At the same time, we are implementing various cost efficiencies using Steels proven business optimization practices and exploring with Steel potential business expansions and alternatives in order to maximize stockholder value. These may include, for example, acquisition of additional business assets, contribution by Steel or a third party of additional business assets to Trinity, or other business combinations. There 22 Table of Contents is no assurance that we will successfully complete any such acquisition, contribution, or combination, or that any such transaction will ultimately be successful. Results of Operations Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2024, compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Rental revenues in total decreased by approximately $5.1 million to $798,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This consisted of a decrease in rent revenues of approximately $5.0 million to $741,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as well as a decrease in tenant reimbursements of approximately $139,000 to $57,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $196,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in total rental revenues and its related components was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above whereby TPHGreenwich is recording the rental revenues. Other income increased by approximately $1.1 million to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $177,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2024, this income represents the management fee earned from TPHGreenwich. For the year ended December 31, 2023, this income was made up of a contractual payment received as a result of the cancelation of the purchase and sale agreement for the Paramus, New Jersey property in January 2023, as well as the SCAs construction supervision fee. Sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich decreased by approximately $26.1 million to $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $27.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. We closed on one and ten residential condominium units during the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decrease in total sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich was due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above whereby TPHGreenwich is recording the sales of residential condominium units. Units that we closed on during 2023 were generally lower priced, smaller units on the buildings lower floors. Property operating expenses decreased by approximately $3.5 million to $480,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in property operating expenses was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above, and to a lesser extent lower marketing and operating costs at 77 Greenwich due to nine fewer residential condominium units having closed. This was partially offset by no capitalized operating costs associated with 77 Greenwich during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. Property operating expenses consisted primarily of expenses incurred for utilities, payroll, and general operating expenses as well as repairs and maintenance and leasing commission at 237 11th, general operating expenses at 77 Greenwich, including marketing costs, and to a lesser extent expenses related to the Paramus, New Jersey property. Real estate tax expense decreased by approximately $2.0 million to $363,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in real estate tax expense was due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above as real estate tax expenses are recorded at TPHGreenwich. There were also less unsold residential condominium units paying real estate taxes which was partially offset by higher assessed values for the unsold residential condominium units and there were less capitalized real estate tax expenses for those units at 77 Greenwich for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $667,000 to $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2024, approximately $140,000 related to stock-based compensation, $2.6 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.6 million related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $1.0 million related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. For the year ended December 31, 2023, approximately $365,000 related to stock-based compensation, $2.6 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $1.8 million related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $1.3 million related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. 23 Table of Contents Pension related costs increased by approximately $328,000 to $97,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to income of $231,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. These costs represent professional fees and other periodic pension costs incurred in connection with the legacy Syms Pension Plan (see Note 9 Pension Plan to our consolidated financial statements for further information). Cost of sales residential condominium units decreased by approximately $25.8 million to $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $27.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. We closed on one and ten residential condominium units during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. This decrease in costs of sales is due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above whereby TPHGreenwich is recording the cost of sales of residential condominium units. Cost of sales consists of construction and capitalized operating costs that are allocated to the respective condominium units being sold, as well as closing costs of the residential condominium units. Units that we closed during 2023 were generally lower priced, smaller units on the buildings lower floors. Depreciation and amortization decreased by approximately $2.9 million to $771,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above whereby TPHGreenwich is recording the depreciation and amortization expense. For the year ended December 31, 2024, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for 237 11th of approximately $207,000, the amortization of lease commissions and acquired in-place leases of approximately $95,000 for 237 11th, the amortization of warrants of approximately $456,000 and depreciation for the corporate office furniture, fixtures and computer equipment of $13,000. For the year ended December 31, 2023, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for the Paramus, New Jersey property of approximately $835,000, depreciation for 237 11th of approximately $1.7 million, the amortization of lease commissions and acquired in-place leases of approximately $770,000 for 237 11th, and amortization of warrants of approximately $456,000. Gain on contribution to joint venture was approximately $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, and represents the gain in the value of the Company relating to the Recapitalization Transactions that closed on February 14, 2024. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures was approximately $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2024, equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint venture represented the impact of our contribution to the TPHGreenwich joint venture on February 14, 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2023, equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures represented our 10% share in 250 North 10th, which was sold in February 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our share of the net loss is primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $121,000 offset by depreciation and amortization of $77,000 and interest expense of $48,000 for 250 North 10th. Equity in net gain on sale of unconsolidated joint venture property of $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 represents the February 2023 sale of our interest in the joint venture that owned 250 North 10th to our joint venture partner resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.2 million after repayment of our Partner Loan, where we recognized an approximate $3.1 million gain. Unrealized gain on warrants was $73,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. This represents the change in the fair market valuation of the warrants due mainly to the change in our stock price on the measurement date. Interest expense, net decreased by approximately $25.3 million to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $29.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in interest expense was due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above whereby TPHGreenwich is recording the interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2024, there was approximately $3.9 million of gross interest expense incurred and no amounts were capitalized into residential condominium units for sale. For the year ended December 31, 2023, there was approximately $29.9 million of gross interest expense incurred, $689,000 of which was capitalized into residential condominium units for sale. Interest expense - amortization of deferred finance costs decreased by approximately $2.7 million to $334,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, from $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, which was principally due to the 24 Table of Contents Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above whereby TPHGreenwich is recording the amortization of deferred finance costs. We recorded $218,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $183,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. Net income attributable to common stockholders increased by approximately $44.6 million to $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, from a net loss of $39.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This is a result of the changes discussed above, principally due to the gain on disposition recognized from the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above and interest expense, partially offset by equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had total cash and restricted cash of $403,000, of which approximately $277,000 was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $126,000 was restricted cash. Under the Recapitalization Transactions, the real estate assets and related liabilities as well as the Corporate Credit Facility became part of TPHGreenwich, with the Company retaining the consumer intellectual property assets and a 95% equity interest in TPHGreenwich. Cash Position As part of the Recapitalization Transactions, the CCF, 77G Mortgage Loan and 77G Mezzanine Loan were amended and extended, and were transferred to TPHGreenwich. As of March 24, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $497,000. We have a limited amount of unrestricted cash and liquidity available for working capital and our cash needs are variable under different circumstances. In connection with the Steel Partners Transaction, on February 18, 2025, the Company issued a Senior Secured Promissory Note (the Steel Promissory Note) to Steel Connect, LLC (the Steel Lender), an affiliate of Steel Partners and Steel Purchaser, pursuant to which the Company may borrow up to $5.0 million from the Steel Lender. The Steel Promissory Note is secured by a pledge of all of the assets of the Company. As of March 24, 2025, $1.0 million was outstanding under the Steel Promissory Note. Cash Flows Cash Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2024, Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Net cash used in operating activities increased by approximately $2.4 million to $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions that occurred on February 14, 2024, whereby Trinity transferred assets and liabilities, including restricted cash, to the TPHGreenwich. Net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $14.0 million to $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The cash used in investing activities was due to the Recapitalization Transactions that occurred on February 14, 2024, whereby Trinity transferred cash to TPHGreenwich. The cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023, was due to $7.2 million in sale proceeds from the sale of our 10% interest in the 250 North 10th joint venture property in February 2023. Net cash provided by financing activities increased by approximately $22.2 million to $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $15.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities primarily relates to the proceeds from loans and corporate credit facility of approximately $2.5 million as well as the approximate $4.4 million, net of expenses, from the sale of common stock related to the Recapitalization Transactions during the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to the approximate $22.5 million in repayments of loans, corporate credit facility and notes payable for the year ending December 31, 2023, partially offset by $7.4 million in borrowings from the loans, corporate credit facility and secured line of credit for the year ending December 31, 2023. 25 Table of Contents Net Operating Losses We believe that our U.S. federal NOLs as of the emergence date of the Syms bankruptcy were approximately $162.8 million. As of December 31, 2024, we believe that our U.S. federal NOLs and state NOLs were approximately $329.0 million and $291.3 million, respectively, and our New York State and New York City prior NOL conversion subtraction pools were approximately $27.9 million and $22.9 million, respectively. Since 2009 through December 31, 2024, we have utilized approximately $20.1 million of the federal NOLs. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that the entire deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategies. Accordingly, a valuation allowance of $90.2 million was recorded as of December 31, 2024. If our assumptions change and we determine that we will be able to realize these NOLs, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets would be recognized as a reduction of income tax expense and an increase in the deferred tax asset. We believe that certain of the transactions that occurred in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy in September 2012, including the rights offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former majority shareholder of Syms in accordance with the Plan, resulted in an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, we believe that we should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, we believe that our NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. However, if we were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize our NOLs could be subject to limitation under Section 382. In addition, the TCJA limited the deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year. Even if all of our regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing our NOLs, we may still be subject to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with our NOLs. This provision generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. Critical Accounting Estimates a. Income Taxes - We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method as required by the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. 26 Table of Contents ASC 740-10-65 addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under ASC 740-10-65, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. ASC 740-10-65 also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and increased other disclosures. As of both December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had determined that no liabilities are required in connection with unrecognized tax positions. As of December 31, 2024, our tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2019, through December 31, 2023, are subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service. Our state returns are open to examination for the years December 31, 2018 or 2019, through December 31, 2023, depending on the jurisdiction. Significant management estimates and judgments are involved to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, forecasted financial conditions and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. We are subject to certain federal, state and local income and franchise taxes. b. Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures - We accounted for our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, namely, The Berkley, which was sold in April 2022, 250 North 10th, which was sold in February 2023, and TPHGreenwich under the equity method of accounting (see Note 14 - Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures for further information). The Company uses the equity method of accounting to record its equity investments in entities in which it has significant influence but does not hold a controlling financial interest, including equity investments in VIEs in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary. Under the equity method, an investment is reflected on the statement of financial condition of an investor as a single amount, and an investors share of earnings or losses from its investment is reflected in the statement of operations as a single amount. The investment is initially measured at cost and subsequently adjusted for the investors share of the earnings or losses of the investee and distributions received from the investee. The investor recognizes its share of the earnings or losses of the investee in the periods in which they are reported by the investee in its financial statements rather than in the period in which an investee declares a distribution. Intra-entity profits and losses on assets still remaining with an investor or investee are eliminated. The Company recognizes its share of earnings or losses from certain equity method investments based on the hypothetical-liquidation-at-book value (HLBV) method. Under this method, earnings or losses are recognized based on how an entity would allocate and distribute its cash if it were to sell all of its assets and settle its liabilities for their carrying amounts and liquidate at the reporting date. This method is used to calculate the Companys share of earnings or losses from equity method investments when the contractual cash disbursements to the investors are different than the investors stated ownership percentage. This method of accounting is used for our investment in TPHGreenwich given the non-pro rata distribution provision in the JV Operating Agreement in favor of Investor, and there is no obligation to fund losses or operations of the joint venture. Under the HLBV method we do not record our proportionate share of TPHGreenwich losses and we will not recognize losses from the joint venture in excess of our investment basis. As of December 31, 2024, our investment in TPHGreenwich has been reduced to $0, and our unrecorded share of suspended losses was approximately $27.6 million. The Company reviews its investments on an ongoing basis for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment in which the Company evaluates, among other factors, the fair market value of its investments, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than cost, and the Companys intent and ability to hold an investment until it recovers. The Company also considers specific adverse conditions related to the financial health and business outlook of the investee, including industry and market performance, rating agency actions, and expected future operating and financing cash flows. If a decline in the fair value of an investment is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment loss is recorded to reduce the investment to its fair value, and a new cost basis in the investment is established. 27 Table of Contents Under the equity method, investments in real estate ventures are recorded initially at the fair value of the assets contributed and subsequently adjusted for equity in earnings, contributions, distributions, and impairments. The Company generally allocates income and losses from the unconsolidated real estate ventures based on the venture's distribution priorities, which may be different from its stated ownership percentage. In connection with the Recapitalization Transaction, as defined in Item 1. Business, Recapitalization Transactions, all real estate assets and related liabilities contributed to TPHGreenwich were transferred at fair value. This resulted in a gain on contribution to joint venture of approximately $21.0 million and was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2024. Accounting Standards Updates See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on or any supplement to this Annual Report, may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions that are not historical facts, and other statements identified by words such as may, will, expects, believes, plans, estimates, potential, or continues, or the negative thereof or other and similar expressions. In addition, in some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others: After the Steel Transaction, we have limited cash resources, our only source of funds is the Steel Promissory Note, and are reliant on external sources of capital to fund ongoing operations; we have not generated an operating profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long-term viability cannot be assured; risks associated with the Company failing to realize the benefits of our recently completed strategic transaction; we are subject to risks associated with TPHGreenwich, including that we may not receive any distributions from TPHGreenwich; TPHGreenwichs revenues and the value of its portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally; the loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business would adversely affect our business; our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future tax payments may be limited as a result of future transactions; TPHGreenwich and its subsidiaries are subject to leverage and face risks generally associated with such debt, including an increased risk of default on such entities obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; covenants in the loan agreements could limit TPHGreenwichs flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition; 28 Table of Contents the Legacy Investor is the lender under the CCF, and an affiliate of the Legacy Investor and JV Investor is the lender under the 77G Mezzanine Loan, which could create a conflict of interest; adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market; general economic and business conditions, including with respect to real estate, and their effect on the New York City residential real estate market in particular; TPHGreenwichs ability to enter into new leases and renew existing leases with tenants at the commercial and residential properties; risks associated with the effect that rent stabilization regulations may have on TPHGreenwichs ability to raise and collect rents; TPHGreenwichs ability to maintain certain state tax benefits with respect to certain of the properties; TPHGreenwichs ability to obtain required permits, site plan approvals and/or other governmental approvals in connection with the development or redevelopment of the properties; costs associated with complying with environmental laws and environmental contamination, as well as the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements; the effects of new tax laws; risks associated with current political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to the outbreak of contagious diseases; risks associated with breaches of information technology systems; stock price volatility and other risks associated with a lightly traded stock; we have terminated the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act and cease being a U.S. public company with reporting obligations; stockholders may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future; a declining stock price may make it more difficult to raise capital in the future; the influence of certain significant stockholders; limitations in our charter on transactions in our common stock by substantial stockholders, designed to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, may not succeed and/or may limit the liquidity of our common stock; certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; certain provisions in our charter documents may have the effect of limiting our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for certain disputes; and unanticipated difficulties which may arise and other factors which may be outside our control or that are not currently known to us or which we believe are not material. In evaluating such statements, you should specifically consider the risks identified under the section entitled Risk Factors 29 Table of Contents in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those contemplated by any forward looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the SEC. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of any documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the date of such document, in each case based on information available to us as of such date, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.