Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report (including but not limited to factors discussed below, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others general economic and market conditions, decreased consumer demand for the Companys products, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, possible work stoppages or increases in labor costs, effects of competition, possible disruptions or delays in the opening of new stores or inability to obtain suitable sites for new stores, higher than anticipated store closings or relocation costs, higher interest rates, unanticipated increases in merchandise or occupancy costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with the integration of Filenes Basement and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 9 SYMS CORP Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are constantly reevaluated, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, located in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2009. The Company has identified certain critical accounting policies that are described below. Merchandise Inventory Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market, as determined by the moving weighted average cost method for Syms and the lower of cost or market, FIFO retail method for Filenes. Under the FIFO retail method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio between the costs of goods available for sale and the retail value of inventories. The significant estimates used are for markdowns and shrinkage. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences and age of the merchandise, fashion trends and weather conditions. In addition, inventory is also evaluated against corporate pre-determined historical markdown trends. When a decision is made to permanently markdown merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The timing of the decision, particularly surrounding the balance sheet date, can have a significant effect on the results of operations. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the date of the last physical inventory to the end of the fiscal year. Physical inventories are taken at least annually for all locations and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in combination with historical experience, is used as the standard for the shrinkage accrual following the physical inventory. The Company has found the use of these estimates to be appropriate and actual results have not differed materially. However, the Company is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause its future estimates to differ materially from past experience. Long-Lived Assets - In evaluation of the fair value and future benefits and any potential impairment of long-lived assets, the Company performs analyses of the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows of the related long-lived assets. If the carrying value of the related asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the Company reduces the carrying value to its fair value, which is generally calculated using discounted cash flows. Various factors including future sales growth and profit margins are included in this analysis. To the extent these future projections or the Companys strategies change, the conclusion regarding impairment may differ from the Companys current estimates. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance - The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that could produce additional future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Should the Company determine that it will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will be charged to income in the period such determination is made. 10 SYMS CORP Results of Operations Thirteen weeks Ended May 29, 2010 Compared to Thirteen weeks Ended May 30, 2009 Net sales increased by $71.2 million or 142% to $121.4 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Sales were $50.3 million in the comparable period last year. This increase was primarily the result of the acquisition of Filenes in June 2009 which contributed $74.4 million of the sales increase. In addition, comparable store sales, which are only for the Syms stores, increased 4.5% and contributed $2.0 million of the sales increase in the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. Comparable store sales in the prior year period decreased 20.5%. The increase in comparable store sales was the result of a higher average transaction size partially offset by a decrease in the number of transactions. The Companys comparable store sales computation only includes stores that have been owned and operated by the Company for a period of at least twelve months. Partially offsetting the above sales increases, was the loss of sales resulting from the closing of five stores during the past year. Gross profit increased by $32.7 million to $53.7 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 from $21.1 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. Gross profit as a percent of net sales increased by 240 basis points to 44.3% during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 from 41.9% during the comparable prior year period. This increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Filenes which had a higher gross profit rate than the Syms stores results last year. In addition the Syms stores had an improvement in their gross profit rate as a result of lower markdowns this year. Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) increased $17.8 million to $34.6 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 as compared to $16.8 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009 primarily as a result of the Filenes acquisition. As percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased approximately 500 basis points to 28.5% of net sales during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 from 33.5% of net sales in the comparable prior year period. Excluding the acquisition costs incurred during the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009, SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased by 420 basis points, primarily as a result of the Filenes acquisition and the related leveraging of expenses over a larger sales base. Advertising expense for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 was $2.5 million or 2.1% of net sales as compared to $0.8 million or 1.5% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. Advertising expense for the thirteen week period ending May 29, 2010 increased primarily due to the acquisition of Filenes and higher radio expenditures at Syms. Occupancy costs (net) were $14.4 million or 11.9% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 as compared to $3.4 million or 6.8% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009 with the increase primarily related to the Filenes acquisition. Included as an offset to net occupancy cost is rental income from third parties. For the thirteen week period ended May 29, 2010 and May 30, 2009, rental income was $563,000 and $606,000, respectively. Occupancy costs for the thirteen week period ended May 29, 2010 included occupancy costs for Filenes of $11.3 million. For the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 as compared to the same period last year, occupancy costs for Syms, exclusive of Filenes, decreased by $0.3 million, predominately as a result of the closure of five store locations during the past year. Depreciation and amortization expense was $3.4 million or 2.8% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 as compared to $1.9 million or 3.8% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. Depreciation and amortization expense for the thirteen week period ended May 29, 2010 included depreciation and amortization expense for Filenes of $1.2 million. For the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 versus the same period last year, depreciation and amortization expense for Syms, exclusive of Filenes, increased by $0.3 million due primarily to capital expenditure additions over the past twelve months. Interest expense was $0.2 million or 0.2% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 as compared to $0.2 million or 0.5% of net sales for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. For the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 interest expense was a result of borrowings on the Companys revolving credit 11 SYMS CORP facility. During the prior year period, interest expense was primarily due to borrowing against the cash surrender value of officers life insurance policies. As a result of the above-noted items, the loss before income taxes for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 was $1.4 million as compared to a loss of $2.1 million for the same period last year. For the thirteen week period ended May 29, 2010 the effective income tax rate was 44.1% as compared to 4.0% for the comparable period a year ago. The difference between the effective income tax rate and the federal statutory rate and the reason for the increase in effective income tax is due to permanent differences in deductibility of expenses for book and tax purposes. In addition, in 2009, the Company recorded certain expense adjustments related to prior years. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital as of May 29, 2010 was $53.8 million, a decrease of $3.2 million as compared to $57.1 million as of May 30, 2009. This decrease in working capital is primarily attributable to higher accounts payable and lower cash partially offset by higher inventory. The increases in accounts payable and inventory are to support the business needs of Filenes. Cash has decreased as a result of the cash used to partially fund the Filenes acquisition. Net cash used by operating activities totaled $2.0 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010 as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $4.8 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. This decrease resulted largely from increases in merchandise inventory levels partially offset by increases in accounts payable, both attributed to the acquisition of Filenes. Net cash provided by investing activities was $2.6 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010, as compared to $1.9 million used in investing activities for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. The proceeds from the sale of land, building and other assets of two former store locations largely accounts for this increase. Capital expenditures for property and equipment increased from $1.9 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009 to $3.8 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010. The increase is largely attributed to the larger store base as a result of the Filenes acquisition. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.2 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 29, 2010, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $16 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 30, 2009. This decrease was the result of an advance of $16 million on the cash surrender value of officers life insurance last year. The Company had an unsecured $40 million, revolving credit facility with Israel Discount Bank (IDB) through June 4, 2009, the agreement for which contained various financial covenants and ratio requirements. There were no borrowings under this facility during its term and the Company was in compliance with its covenants during the period in which this facility was available. Effective June 5, 2009 the Company revised this facility to a secured $40 million, revolving credit facility with the same bank and in connection with the acquisition of Filenes, borrowed $24.0 million under this facility. On August 27, 2009 the Company entered into a $75 million, secured, revolving credit facility with Bank of America which replaced the IDB facility, and expires on August 27, 2012. In connection with the new Bank of America facility, the company recognized approximately $1.1 million of deferred financing costs, which are being amortized over the term of the agreement. This facility calculates availability to borrow utilizing a formula which considers accounts receivable, inventory and certain real estate and bears interest at various rates depending on availability under formula, currently Prime +2.25%. The Company is in compliance in all respects with the Bank of America facility at May 29, 2010. As of May 29, 2010, approximately $9.8 million is outstanding under this facility. Each of the Companys loan facilities have had sub-limits for letters of credit which when utilized, reduce availability under the facility. At May 29, 2010 and May 30, 2009 the Company had outstanding letters of credit of $7.9 million and $0, respectively. The U.S. economy is continuing to experience weakness across virtually every sector. Such continued weakness could negatively affect the Companys cash, sales and/or operating performance and, further, could limit additional capital if needed and increase concomitant costs. Management believes that existing 12 SYMS CORP cash, internally generated funds, trade credit and funds available from the revolving credit facility will be sufficient for working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the fiscal year ending February 26, 2011. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices Although the Company cannot accurately determine the precise effect of inflation on its operations, it does not believe inflation has had a material effect on sales or results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for a description of the Recent Accounting Pronouncements including the respective dates of adoption and the effects on Results of Operations and Financial Condition. I tem 3.