Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report (including but not limited to factors discussed below, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks including, among others, the restrictions contained in the Plan, general economic and market conditions, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, higher than anticipated costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Disposition of the Companys and Filenes Businesses Prior to November 2, 2011, all of the Companys and Filenes business operations consisted primarily of running retail operations. As the economy worsened, sales continued to erode and, as a result, cash flow suffered and significant operational losses continued to threaten the on-going businesses. Trade vendors tightened and/or ceased providing credit terms. As a result, the Company and Filenes projected that absent additional financing or measures to monetize certain assets, liquidity would not be available to the Company. On November 2, 2011, Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In response to the Chapter 11 filing, the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the petition date. Net operating results from October 30, 2011 to November 1, 2011 were not material. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs through the liquidation date are provided to the extent reasonably determinable. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. The Company has identified certain significant accounting policies that have been applied to the Companys financial reporting in accordance with the liquidation basis of accounting. These policies are described below. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon work required for the claims settlement process, changes in market conditions and changes in the strategy surrounding the sale of properties. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. 12 b. Pension Expense The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared annually to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plans. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plans may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at estimated net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. d. Income Taxes To the extent that income taxes, including alternate minimum income taxes, are expected to be incurred as a result of the liquidation of the Companys properties, such costs are reflected in accrued liquidation costs, as described above. As of November 30, 2013 a total of $0.9 million has been accrued. As part of the process of estimating the amount of income taxes to be incurred during the liquidation period, management has taken into consideration the extent to which net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) are expected to be available to offset the amount of income otherwise taxable on the sale of properties. This involved a process of estimating the extent to which each property had a fair value in excess of its tax basis (a built in gain) as of the date of emerging from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. At that point in time, the Company believes there was a change in control of the Company that may impose a restriction on the extent to which the Company can use prior NOLs. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact that the change in control could have on its ability to use the NOLs that existed prior to September 14, 2012. Results of Operations For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at estimated settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports the estimated gains and losses on liquidation. During the three fiscal quarters ended November 30, 2013, the Company sold five properties for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $33.8 million, net of $1.6 million of transaction-related expenses. See Note 10 above for more information on these sales. As a result of these transactions, the value of the Companys real estate assets decreased from $142.6 million as of March 2, 2013 to $106.5 million as of November 30, 2013. During the same thirty-nine week period, the Company used the aggregate net proceeds from asset sales to pay $33.1 million of allowed claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, reducing the Companys liabilities. In addition to these transactions, the Company received an additional $1.1 million in net rents and other income during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 30, 2013. The Companys operating costs and expenses during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 30, 2013 were $12.9 million of which $8.6 million related to real estate related carrying costs, $2.9 million related to professional fees and $1.4 million related to payroll costs. Overhead expenses have exceeded the original projections and have outpaced the budgeted reserves, which is primarily due to professional fees. As of November 30, 2013, the net assets of the Company available to common shareholders was $40.5 million, $15.7 million higher than the $24.8 million as of March 2, 2013. This was mainly the result of the $13.0 million cash raised, net of $0.5 million in offering costs, in the stock purchase agreement with Third Avenue Trust, as discussed in Note 11. The remaining change resulted from a decrease in estimated claims payments of $3.6 million for lease settlements and $1.9 million in other claims, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in the net realizable value of two properties, an increase in payroll costs of $0.8 million and an increase in professional fees of $1.3 million primarily from bankruptcy professionals. The decrease in total assets of $34.0 million from $159.1 million at March 2, 2013 to $125.1 million at November 30, 2013 was offset by a $49.6 million reduction in accrued expenses, accrued liquidation costs and other liabilities largely as a result of the payment of allowed claims using the proceeds of asset sales in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The capital raised during the quarter ended November 30, 2013 from the stock sale provided the Company with additional liquidity necessary to satisfy obligations during the quarter ended November 30, 2013. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services in order to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the remaining liquidation period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of November 30, 2013, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $16.1 million. Prior to September 14, 2012, the Company used its cash and cash equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations. After September 14, 2012, the Company has used its cash and equivalents primarily for the payment of professional fees and claims related to the Chapter 11 cases, as well as its daily operations and to fund reserves under the Plan. The Company believes that it would be able to fund its operations through net cash proceeds from property sales; however, the Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from such net cash proceeds. The Companys $5 million corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan has been depleted, primarily due to greater than expected professional fees. The holder of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock, which has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, has consented to an increase in the corporate overhead reserve to $11 million, subject to certain limitations and a reduction of up to approximately $800,000 if certain anticipated expenses are not incurred. Up to $2.5 million of corporate overhead expenses previously paid by the Company from generally available cash will count toward and be reimbursed from the increased corporate overhead reserve following receipt of net cash proceeds from future property sales. In addition, as noted in Note 11, the Company entered into a stock purchase agreement on October 1, 2013 and raised $13.0 million, net of $0.5 million in offering costs, which can be used to fund overhead and other expenses. The Company believes through the sale of its assets and cash on hand, along with the possibility of additional equity and/or debt financing, it has the cash necessary to satisfy its required claims distributions and operating activities. 13 Under the Plan, the proceeds of a common equity financing can be used to fund operating expenses in excess of the reserves and for other uses, while the proceeds of a debt financing generally must be used to pay creditor claims. Pursuant to the Plan, with limited exceptions, any excess cash from property sales not applied to fund operating expenses must be distributed in accordance with the priorities established in the Plan. The payments to creditors and the former Majority Shareholder during the quarter ended November 30, 2013 aggregating $32.6 million were made pursuant to the Plan. Net Operating Losses The Company believes that the Rights Offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder resulted in the Company undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 382). Accordingly, the Companys NOLs that can be used to offset future income for U.S. federal income tax purposes could be limited in the manner set forth in Section 382. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact, if any, that the change in control could have on its ability to use the NOLs that existed prior to September 14, 2012. The Company believes that its U.S. federal NOLs as of the emergence date were approximately $162.8 million. However, even if all of the Companys regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of the NOLs, the Company may still be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax (which imposes a tax generally equal to the amount by which 20% of a corporations alternative minimum taxable income exceeds the corporations regular tax liability, and is calculated in a manner that may reduce the benefit of NOLs) or to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There are no proposed or recently issued accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Company.