Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources, we ceased reporting on the liquidation basis of accounting in light of our available cash resources, the estimated range of outstanding payments on unresolved claims, and our ability to operate as a going concern. We resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015. The impact of this change in accounting is discussed below in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsChange from Liquidation Accounting to Going Concern Accounting and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements (Basis of Presentation). Our fiscal year and that of our predecessor was historically a 52-week or 53-week period ending on the Saturday on or nearest to February 28. On November 12, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a change to a December 31 calendar year end, effective with the year ended December 31, 2015. The 2016 year is based on a calendar year and Fiscal 2015 is based on the period from March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Employees As of December 31, 2016, we had eight full-time employees staffed in executive, management, finance, accounting, operations and administrative capacities. General Information about Trinity Trinity was incorporated in Delaware immediately prior to the effective date of the Plan. Trinity maintains its headquarters at 717 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York, 10022, and the telephone number is (212) 235-2190. Available Information We are a public company and are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. Accordingly, we file periodic reports and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding us and other issuers that file electronically. Our website address is www.trinityplaceholdings.com or www.tphs.com . We make available without charge, through our website in the Financials section, copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. References in this document to our website are not and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and stockholders should take such risks into account in evaluating us or any investment decision involving us. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business. More detailed information concerning certain of the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Stockholders should also refer to the other information contained in our periodic reports, including the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. 7 Risk Factors Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have not generated a profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long term viability cannot be assured. Our prospects for financial success are difficult to assess because we have a limited operating history since emergence from bankruptcy and, more recently, as a going concern. Our predecessor filed for Chapter 11 relief on November 2, 2011, and we emerged from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. We resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015. Since emergence from bankruptcy, we have generated limited revenues and had negative cash flow from operations and the development of our business plan will require substantial capital expenditures. Our business could be subject to any or all of the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including, but not limited to capital resources. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities. Much of our current business plan is focused on the development of 77 Greenwich, and an inability to execute this business plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business plan includes the development or redevelopment of our remaining commercial real estate properties and in particular the development of 77 Greenwich, which currently makes up a majority of our assets. As a result, our revenues and future growth are heavily dependent on the success of implementing our business plan to develop 77 Greenwich, which is currently in pre-development. An inability to successfully execute our business plan with respect to 77 Greenwich could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business plan for 77 Greenwich may be adversely impacted by trends in the Manhattan condominium market. Our revenues and future growth are partially dependent on the success of monetizing 77 Greenwich, which is currently in pre-development. Our plans for 77 Greenwich currently call for approximately 90 condominium apartments, in addition to retail and a New York City elementary school. There are a variety of factors that determine Manhattan condominium trends and that will ultimately impact the sales and pricing of condominiums at 77 Greenwich, including among others, supply, changes in interest rates, the availability of home mortgages, foreign exchange rates and local employment trends, prices and velocity of sales. Sales of condominiums in general, and in particular in Manhattan, have historically experienced greater volatility than detached single family houses, which may expose us to more risk. These and other factors fluctuate over time and their status at the time we actually commence sales, which is itself uncertain, is inherently uncertain. An inability to successfully execute our business plan with respect to 77 Greenwich could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our development of 77 Greenwich is dependent upon our ability to obtain commercially reasonable financing. Our ability to develop 77 Greenwich depends on our ability to obtain construction financing, permanent financing and/or letters of credit, on commercially reasonable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to develop 77 Greenwich could be materially adversely affected, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated. We intend to continue to develop or redevelop our current and future properties. Our current and future development and construction activities may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to proceed with the development of properties because we cannot obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all; we may incur construction costs for a development project that exceed our original estimates due to increases in interest rates and increased materials, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project; we may abandon development opportunities after we begin to explore them and as a result we may lose deposits or fail to recover expenses already incurred; we may expend funds on and devote managements time to projects which we do not complete; we may be unable to complete construction and/or leasing of our rental properties and sales of our condominium projects (currently limited to 77 Greenwich) on schedule, or at all; and we may suspend development projects after construction has begun due to changes in economic conditions or other factors, and this may result in the write-off of costs, payment of additional costs or increases in overall costs when the development project is restarted. Investment returns from our properties planned to be developed may be less than anticipated. Our properties planned to be developed may be exposed to the following risks: we may sell condominiums at 77 Greenwich and other future developed properties at prices, and/or lease commercial and residential properties at current or future properties, that are less than the prices projected at the time we decide to undertake the development; the velocity of leasing at commercial and residential properties, and/or condominium sales at future developed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; and operating expenses may be greater than projected at the time of development, resulting in our investment being less profitable than we expected. Competition for new acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. We may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: 9 an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. In addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks associated with acquisitions of and investments in new properties. We may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. Our acquisition and investment activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to complete proposed acquisitions or other transactions due to an inability to meet required closing conditions; we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, acquisition opportunities which we do not complete, which may include non-refundable deposits; we may be unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms as contemplated as part of our underwriting; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of such a property, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: 10 claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in and owning leased real estate in connection with our existing shopping centers, the residential property owned by our joint venture and new properties or investments in leased real estate. These risks include the ability to secure leases with new tenants, the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove or certain upgrades that may be needed should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenants quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation. The occurrence of any of these events, particularly with respect to larger leases at our commercial real estate properties, could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if our competitors offer space at rental rates below our current rates or the market rates, we may lose current or potential tenants to other properties in our markets. Additionally, we may need to reduce rental rates below our current rates in order to retain tenants upon expiration of their leases or to attract new tenants. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected as a result of these factors. We may be unable to lease vacant space, renew our current leases, or re-lease space as our current leases expire. We cannot assure you that leases at our properties will be renewed or that such properties will be re-leased at favorable rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults or space that is currently unoccupied, and space for which leases are scheduled to expire, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources than we have that compete with us in seeking tenants who will lease space in our properties. The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of the major tenants at our commercial real estate properties that causes them to reject their leases, or to not renew their leases as they expire, or renew at lower rental rates, may adversely affect our cash flows and property values. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, direct mail and telemarketing, which could reduce rents payable to us and reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties leading to increased vacancy rates at our properties. In addition, if we are unable to renew leases or re-lease a property, the resale value of that property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend in part upon the value of the leases of such property. Competition may adversely affect our ability to purchase properties and make other investments. Our competitors for new acquisitions and other investments include real estate investment trusts, financial institutions, private funds, insurance companies, pension funds, private companies, family offices, sovereign wealth funds and individuals. Many of our competitors have greater resources, including access to equity capital and debt financing, than we do. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties than we wish to pay. 11 We are subject to the risks associated with partnerships and joint ventures. We formed a joint venture between a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and an affiliate of Pacolet Milliken Enterprises, Inc., to acquire and operate The Berkley in Brooklyn, New York. We may become involved in additional partnerships and/or joint ventures in the future with respect to current or future properties. Partnerships and joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made or owned solely by us, including the possibility that our partner or co-venturer might become bankrupt, or may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture, activities conducted by a partner that have a negative impact on the joint venture or us, and disputes with our partner. Also, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of our funds that may be invested in joint ventures. Our ability to develop or redevelop our properties and enter into new leases with tenants will depend on our obtaining certain permits, site plan approvals and other governmental approvals from local municipalities, which we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. In order to develop or redevelop our properties, we will be required to obtain certain permits, site plan approvals or other governmental approvals from local municipalities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits or approvals on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from developing or redeveloping our properties according to our business plan. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Lack of permits and approvals to develop or redevelop our properties could severely and adversely affect our business. We have generated minimal revenues from operations and have limited cash resources, and may be reliant on external sources of financing to fund operations in the future. Our revenue generating activities have not yet produced sufficient funds for profitable operations. In addition, we anticipate that we may be required to set aside specified minimum levels of liquidity in connection with the development and financing of current and future properties, including 77 Greenwich. Such amounts could be substantial. As a result, these amounts would not be available for investment or operating activities. Our continued operation will be dependent upon the success of future operations and will likely require raising additional financing on acceptable terms. We have relied and may continue to rely substantially upon equity and debt financing to fund our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of financing would be available to us on commercially favorable terms should our capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified management and other personnel, including in particular our President and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Messinger. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract qualified management and other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure of our subsidiaries to repay or refinance outstanding loans, and any liability we incur as a result of the financing arrangements and our guarantees of those loans, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All of our properties secure loan agreements that our subsidiaries have entered into. The failure by the borrower subsidiaries to make scheduled repayments under the loan agreements, or the default of any of the obligations under the loans, would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the applicable subsidiary may be required to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the respective loan and the lenders may exercise other remedies available to them, including foreclosing on the respective property securing the loan. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 Loans Payable to our consolidated financial statements, for further discussion regarding each loan transaction. 12 Our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future tax payments may be limited as a result of future transactions. We had approximately $230.2 million of federal NOLs at December 31, 2016. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership by certain stockholders of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOLs after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders who directly or indirectly own 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by us. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of NOLs is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change. If we experience an ownership change, our ability to utilize our NOLs would be subject to significant limitations. Political and economic uncertainty could have an adverse effect on us. We cannot predict how current political and economic uncertainty, including uncertainty related to taxation, will affect our critical tenants, joint venture partners, lenders, financial institutions and general economic conditions, including the health and confidence of the consumer and the volatility of the stock market. Political and economic uncertainty poses a risk to us in that it may cause consumers to postpone discretionary spending in response to tighter credit, reduced consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, resulting in a downturn in the business of our tenants. In the event current political and economic uncertainty results in financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Each of these could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties. Each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. 13 Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. We also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These rules are subject to interpretation and change. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our operating properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT. Our common stock is thinly traded. We cannot assure stockholders that an active market for our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or, if developed, that it will be sustained. As a result stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock. Because our common stock is thinly traded, even small trades can have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for such shares. The market price could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: volatility in global and/or U.S. equities markets; changes in the real estate markets in which we operate; 14 our ability to develop or re-develop 77 Greenwich and our other properties; our ability to identify new acquisition and investment opportunities and/or close on previously announced acquisitions or investments; our financial results or those of other companies in our industry; the publics reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock; sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; changes in generally accepted accounting principles, policies, guidance, or interpretations; and other factors described in our filings with the SEC, including among others in connection with the risks noted herein. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restrictions on resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock could fall. A significant amount of restricted shares previously issued by us have been registered for resale on registration statements filed with the SEC, and we agreed to file a resale registration statement with the SEC with respect to the shares purchased from us and certain selling shareholders in connection with the private placement in February 2017. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. In addition, until our common stock is more widely held and actively traded, small sales or purchases will likely cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate dramatically up or down without regard to our financial health or business prospects. Stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities in capital raising transactions or otherwise, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 120,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 79,999,997 shares of common stock, two shares of a class of preferred stock (which have been redeemed in accordance with their terms and may not be reissued), one share of a class of special stock and 40,000,000 shares of blank-check preferred stock. As of December 31, 2016, there were 25,663,820 shares of our common stock and one share of special stock outstanding and, subsequent to year-end, we issued an additional 3,585,000 shares of common stock in a private placement that closed in February 2017. 15 Any future issuance of our equity securities may dilute then-current stockholders ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. We may need to raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants, as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions and investments, development, redevelopment and repositioning of assets, or for other business purposes. Our board of directors may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common stock without stockholder approval, unless the approval of our common stockholders is required by applicable law, rule or regulation, including NYSE MKT regulations, or our certificate of incorporation. The terms of preferred equity securities we may issue in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price or have exercise prices below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. Over 50% of our shares of common stock are currently controlled by four of our stockholders who may have the ability to influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. Over 50% of our shares of common stock are controlled by four of our stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. The holder of our special stock has the right to appoint a member to our board of directors and, consequently, the ability to exert influence over us. In connection with the investment in us by Third Avenue Trust, on behalf of Third Avenue Real Estate Value Fund (Third Avenue), a beneficial holder of 16.3% of our common stock, Third Avenue was issued one share of a class of special stock and our certificate of incorporation was amended to provide that, subject to the other terms and conditions of our certificate of incorporation, from the issuance of the one share of special stock and until the Special Stock Ownership Threshold of 2,345,000 shares of common stock is no longer satisfied, Third Avenue has the right to elect one director to the board of directors. As a result, this stockholder may be able to exert influence over our policies and management, potentially in a manner which may not be in our best interests or the best interests of the other stockholders, until such time as the Special Stock Ownership Threshold is no longer satisfied. In order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation includes certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOLs and certain other tax attributes for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, our certificate of incorporation contains certain transfer restrictions with respect to our stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of our common stock and may have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our stock generally. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be devoted to our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and such other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investors investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 16 Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. In addition to the matters identified in the risk factors above relating to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, these provisions include: a classified board of directors with two-year staggered terms; limitations in our certificate of incorporation on acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock designed to protect our NOLs and certain other tax attributes; and authorization for blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock and result in the market price of the common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Below is certain information regarding our commercial real estate properties, as of December 31, 2016: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated rentable square feet) Number of Units Leased at December 31, 2016 Occupancy at December 31, 2016 Owned Locations New York, New York (77 Greenwich) Property under development 57,000 - N/A (1) N/A Paramus, New Jersey Property under development 77,000 - - (2) 100.0 % West Palm Beach, Florida Operating property 112,000 - 67.8 % (3) 67.8 % Westbury, New York Property under development 92,000 - - (4) 100.0 % Total Owned Square Feet 338,000 Joint Venture 223 North 8th Street, Brooklyn, New York - 50% Multi-family 65,000 95 72.6 % (5) 72.6 % Grand Total Square Feet 403,000 (1) 77 Greenwich. The 77 Greenwich property consists of a vacant six-story commercial building of approximately 57,000 square feet, yielding approximately 173,000 square feet of zoning floor area as-of-right. We also have ownership of approximately 60,000 square feet of development rights from adjacent tax lots, one of which is owned in fee by us and has a 4-story landmark building. We are currently in the pre-development stage for the development of an over 300,000 gross square foot mixed-use building that corresponds to the approximate total of 233,000 zoning square feet as described above. The plans call for approximately 90 luxury residential condominiums and 7,600 square feet of retail space on Greenwich Street, as well as a 476-seat elementary school serving New York City District 2. The school project has obtained city council and mayoral approval. Environmental remediation was completed and demolition has started. Demolition is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2017 after which foundation work is expected to begin. 17 (2) Paramus Property . The Paramus property consists of a one-story and partial two-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet, for approximately 77,000 total square feet of rentable space. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building was leased pursuant to a short-term license agreement to Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: RH) (Restoration Hardware) from October 15, 2015 to February 29, 2016 when the tenant vacated the property. Subsequently, we entered into a new twelve month license agreement with Restoration Hardware that began on June 1, 2016, which is terminable upon one months notice to the other party. The outparcel building is leased to a tenant whose lease expires on March 31, 2018. The tenant has been in the space since 1996. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres. We have entered into an option agreement with an investment grade tenant who will construct a new building after we obtain approvals and demolish the existing buildings. The option agreement includes a fully negotiated lease agreement. This transaction is subject to town approvals. (3) West Palm Beach Property. The West Palm Beach property consists of a one-story neighborhood retail strip center that is comprised of approximately 112,000 square feet of rentable area, which includes three outparcel locations with approximately 11,000 combined square feet. The land area of the West Palm Beach property consists of approximately 515,000 square feet, or approximately 11.8 acres. Our redevelopment and repositioning of the center is complete. We will incur additional lease-up costs as the current vacancies are filled. Our two largest tenants, Walmart Marketplace, with 41,662 square feet of space and Tire Kingdom, a national credit tenant who took possession of a 5,400 square feet outparcel, opened for business in June, 2016. (4) Westbury Property. The Westbury property consists of a one-story building and lower level that in the aggregate contains approximately 92,000 square feet of rentable space. The land area of the Westbury property consists of approximately 256,000 square feet, or approximately 6.0 acres. As of March 28, 2016, we entered into a short term license agreement with New York Community Bank to lease a portion of the parking lot of the Westbury property. This agreement ended on October 31, 2016. We also entered into a twelve month license agreement with Restoration Hardware that began on June 1, 2016. (5) 223 North 8 th Street. We, through a joint venture with Pacolet Milliken Enterprises, Inc., indirectly own a 50% interest in the entity formed to acquire and operate The Berkley, a newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property encompassing approximately 99,000 gross square feet (65,000 rentable square feet) on 223 North 8 th Street in North Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. The Berkley is in close proximity to public transportation and offers a full amenity package. Apartments feature top-of-the-line unit finishes, central air conditioning and heating and most units have private outdoor space. The property benefits from a 25-year 421a real estate tax abatement. 18 Lease Expirations The following chart shows the tenancy, by year of lease expiration, of our retail properties for all tenants in place as of December 31, 2016, excluding the license agreements with Restoration Hardware ($ in 000s): Number of Tenants Leased Square Feet by Year of Expiration Annualized Rent in Year of Expiration (A) 2017 (B) 2 2,400 $ 29 2018 1 4,000 140 2019 - - - 2020 8 12,488 245 2021 2 7,063 119 Thereafter 5 54,262 1,092 18 80,213 $ 1,625 (A) This is calculated by multiplying the rent in the final month of the lease by 12. (B) Reflects tenants with a month to month tenancy. Corporate Headquarters We lease our corporate headquarters in New York, New York (approximately 3,500 square feet). The lease expires in September 2017. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are a party to routine legal proceedings, which are primarily incidental to our former business. Some of the actions to which we are a party are covered by insurance and are being defended or reimbursed by our insurance carriers. Based on an analysis performed by our actuary and available information and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from this routine litigation will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Additionally, as discussed in Item 1. Business, we currently operate under the Plan that was approved in connection with the resolution of the Chapter 11 cases involving Syms and its subsidiaries. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES On December 21, 2015 our common stock began trading on the NYSE MKT. Prior to this, our common stock was quoted in the OTCQB. The trading symbol of our common stock is TPHS. The following table summarizes the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of the common stock as reported in the NYSE MKT for the quarterly periods for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the period from March 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015, the table summarizes the quarterly high and low bid quotations prices per share of the common stock as reported in the OTCQB for the period from March 1, 2015 until December 18, 2015 and the high and low sales prices as reported by the NYSE MKT for the period from December 21, 2015 through December 31, 2015. The OTCQB quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. 19 For the Period January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 For the Period March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 7.18 $ 5.25 $ 8.40 $ 6.50 Second Quarter $ 8.05 $ 6.36 $ 8.01 $ 6.00 Third Quarter $ 10.37 $ 6.91 $ 6.70 $ 5.60 Fourth Quarter $ 10.13 $ 8.77 $ 6.30 $ 5.11 Outstanding Common Stock and Holders As of March 15, 2017, we had 34,444,923 shares issued and 29,343,441 shares outstanding and there were approximately 212 record holders of our common stock. Dividends No dividends were paid during either the year ended December 31, 2016 or the periods from February 10, 2015 to February 28, 2015 and March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In accordance with the terms of the employment agreement between us and Matthew Messinger, our President and Chief Executive Officer, on December 29, 2016, Mr. Messinger was granted 30,000 restricted stock unit awards (the RSU Awards). The issuance of the RSU Awards was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We made no stock repurchases during the year ended December 31, 2016. Performance Graph The following graph is a comparison of the cumulative return of our shares of common stock from October 2, 2012 (the first date following our emergence from bankruptcy that our common stock was quoted) through December 31, 2016, the Standard & Poors 500 Index (the S&P 500 Index) and the FTSE National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) All Equity Index, a peer group index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on September 14, 2012 in our shares of common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the NAREIT All Equity Index and assumes the reinvestment of all dividends (if applicable), and that no commissions were paid. There can be no assurance that the performance of our shares will continue in line with the same or similar trends depicted in the graph below. 20 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth our selected financial data and should be read in conjunction with our Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The below selected financial data does not include any information prior to February 10, 2015 as we were reporting on the liquidation basis of accounting during the periods prior to February 10, 2015. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. Our accounting basis reverted to the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015, resulting in all remaining assets and liabilities at that date being adjusted to their net book value less an adjustment for depreciation and/or amortization calculated from the date we entered liquidation through the date we emerged from liquidation. Accordingly, this change in accounting basis resulted in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. Also on November 12, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a change to our fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to the last day of February to a December 31 calendar year end, effective with the year ended December 31, 2015. The period that resulted from this change is March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Because the bases of accounting are non-comparable to each other as well as due to the change in our fiscal year, we are not reporting selected financial data for the periods prior to February 10, 2015. 21 January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 February 10, 2015 to February 28, 2015 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 1,856 $ 841 $ 43 Total operating expenses 9,034 7,583 346 Operating loss (7,178 ) (6,742 ) (303 ) Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint venture (308 ) - - Interest income (expense), net 42 (246 ) (40 ) Amortization of deferred finance costs (98 ) (63 ) (17 ) Reduction of claims liability 132 557 - Loss before taxes (7,410 ) (6,494 ) (360 ) Tax expense 26 67 2 Net loss available to common stockholders $ (7,436 ) $ (6,561 ) $ (362 ) Loss per share - basic and diluted $ (0.29 ) $ (0.32 ) $ (0.02 ) Weighted average number of common shares - basic and diluted 25,439 20,518 20,016 Balance Sheet Data (in thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 February 28, 2015 Real estate, net $ 60,384 $ 42,638 $ 31,121 Investment in unconsolidated joint venture 13,939 - - Total assets 85,601 86,571 78,258 Loans payable, net 48,705 39,615 39,323 Total stockholders' equity 28,025 24,966 5,201 Cash Flow Data (in thousands) January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 February 10, 2015 to February 28, 2015 Cash flows (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (14,842 ) $ (7,034 ) $ (114 ) Investing activities (26,214 ) (6,278 ) (511 ) Financing activities 7,561 27,615 - 22 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Trinity Place Holdings Inc. (referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Trinity, we, our, or us) is a real estate holding, investment and asset management company. Our business is primarily to own, invest in, manage, develop or redevelop real estate assets and/or real estate related securities. Currently, our largest asset is a property located at 77 Greenwich Street (77 Greenwich) in Lower Manhattan. We also own a retail strip center located in West Palm Beach, Florida and former retail properties in Westbury, New York and Paramus, New Jersey. Through a joint venture, we own a 50% interest in a newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property, known as The Berkley, located in Brooklyn, New York (see Item 2. Properties for a more detailed description of our properties). We also continue to evaluate new investment opportunities. We also control a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, including our on-line marketplace at FilenesBasement.com, our rights to the Stanley Blacker brand, as well as the intellectual property associated with the Running of the Brides event and An Educated Consumer is Our Best Customer slogan. We also had approximately $230.2 million of federal net operating losses (NOLs) at December 31, 2016. As described in greater detail in Item 1. Business, the predecessor to Trinity is Syms Corp. (Syms). Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Court) in 2011. In August 2012, the Court entered an order confirming the Syms Plan of Reorganization. In September 2012, the Plan became effective and the Debtors consummated their reorganization under Chapter 11 through a series of transactions contemplated by the Plan and emerged from bankruptcy. As part of those transactions, reorganized Syms merged with and into Trinity, with Trinity as the surviving corporation and successor issuer pursuant to Rule 12g-3 under the Exchange Act. From the effective date of the Plan in 2012 through the date the General Unsecured Claims Satisfaction occurred, our business plan was historically focused on the monetization of our commercial real estate properties, including the development of 77 Greenwich, and the payment of approved claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan. During the period from the effective date of the Plan through December 31, 2016, we sold 14 properties, including one condominium, and paid approximately $116.2 million in respect of approved claims, including the final payment to the former Majority Shareholder on March 14, 2016 in the amount of approximately $6.9 million, which followed the occurrence of a General Unsecured Claims Satisfaction on or about March 8, 2016. As of December 31, 2016, the amount of remaining multiemployer pension plan claims was $2.5 million (see Note 8 Pension and Profit Sharing Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, we had insured claims (see Note 16 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and other pension liabilities of $3.4 million. On November 12, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a change to our fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to the last day of February to a December 31 calendar year end, effective with the year ending December 31, 2015. The transition period that resulted from this change was March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Because the bases of accounting are non-comparable to each other as well as due to the change in our fiscal year, we are excluding all information from the period prior to February 10, 2015 from any disclosure or discussion. Change from Liquidation Accounting to Going Concern Accounting In response to the Chapter 11 filing we adopted the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. On February 10, 2015, we changed our basis of accounting from the liquidation basis to the going concern basis of accounting. Accordingly, our accounting basis for real estate and trademark assets were adjusted to their net book values at the date we changed back to the going concern basis of accounting, adjusted for depreciation and amortization calculated from the date we entered liquidation through the date we emerged from liquidation. This change in accounting basis resulted in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. 23 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements. Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. Critical Accounting Policies As noted above, we resumed reporting on the going concern basis of accounting on February 10, 2015 and adjusted our assets and liabilities back to their historical cost, adjusted for a catchup of depreciation and amortization during the liquidation period. a. Real Estate - Real estate assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. All costs related to the improvement or replacement of real estate properties are capitalized. Additions, renovations and improvements that enhance and/or extend the useful life of a property are also capitalized. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance, repairs and improvements that do not materially prolong the normal useful life of an asset are charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are determined using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, as described in the table below: Category Terms Buildings and improvements 10 - 39 years Tenant improvements Shorter of remaining term of the lease or useful life b. Real Estate Under Development - We capitalize certain costs related to the development and redevelopment of real estate including initial project acquisition costs, pre-construction costs and construction costs for each specific property. Additionally we capitalize operating costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved with the specific project related to real estate under development. Capitalization of these costs begin when the activities and related expenditures commence, and cease when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity at which time the project is placed in service and depreciation commences. Revenue earned under short-term license agreements at properties under development is offset against these capitalized costs. c. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets We periodically review long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We consider relevant cash flow, managements strategic plans, significant decreases in the market value of the asset and other available information in assessing whether the carrying value of the assets can be recovered. When such events occur, we compare the carrying amount of the asset to the expected future cash flows, excluding interest charges, from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this comparison indicates an impairment, the carrying amount would then be compared to the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. An impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. No provision for impairment was recorded during either of the year ended December 31, 2016 or the period ended December 31, 2015. 24 d. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, as required by the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10-30, Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which we do not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. e. Deferred Financing Costs - Deferred financing costs represent commitment fees, legal, title and other third party costs associated with obtaining commitments for financing which result in a closing of such financing. These costs are being offset against loans payable in the consolidated balance sheets. These costs are amortized over the terms of the respective financing agreements. Unamortized deferred financing costs are expensed when the associated debt is refinanced or repaid before maturity. Costs incurred in seeking financing transactions, which do not close, are expensed in the period in which it is determined that the financing will not close. f. Revenue Recognition - Leases with tenants are accounted for as operating leases. Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases, beginning when the tenant takes possession of the space. The excess of rents recognized over amounts contractually due pursuant to the underlying leases are included in deferred rents receivable. In addition, leases typically provide for the reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance and other property operating expenses. These reimbursements are recognized as revenue in the period the expenses are incurred. We make estimates of the collectability of our accounts receivable related to tenant revenues. An allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided against certain tenant accounts receivable that are estimated to be uncollectible. Once the amount is ultimately deemed to be uncollectible, it is written off. g. Stock-based Compensation - We have granted stock-based compensation, which is described in Note 12 Stock-Based Compensation to the consolidated financial statements. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-30-30, which establishes accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services. Under the provisions of ASC 718-10-35, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award on that date, and is expensed at the grant date (for the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the respective vesting periods (see Adoption of New Accounting Principle in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements). Results of Operations Due to the change in our fiscal year end approved by our Board of Directors on November 12, 2015, the comparable period presented only covers the ten-month period from March 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, which is a shorter period than the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 and thus is not directly comparable. Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 Compared to the Ten-Month Period from March 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015 Total rental revenues and tenant reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $1.9 million. Total revenues for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $841,000. These amounts represent rental revenues and tenant expense reimbursements from our West Palm Beach, Florida and Paramus, New Jersey properties. The relative increase was mainly due to the increased occupancy at the West Palm Beach property since June 2016. Property operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $624,000. Property operating expenses for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $576,000. These amounts consisted of costs incurred for maintenance and repairs, utilities and general operating expenses at our West Palm Beach, Florida property. 25 Real estate tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $275,000 for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. Real estate tax expense for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $165,000, primarily for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $5.9 million. Of this amount, approximately $2.8 million related to stock-based compensation, $1.6 million related to payroll and payroll related expenses and $1.5 million related to other corporate costs including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance. General and administrative expenses for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $4.3 million. Of this amount, approximately $1.4 million related to stock-based compensation, $1.5 million related to payroll and payroll related costs and $1.4 million related to other corporate costs including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance. The total increase of $1.6 million in general and administrate expenses from 2015 mainly related to the vesting of stock-based compensation related to the December 2015 rights offering. Professional fees for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $1.5 million. These costs consisted of general corporate legal fees of approximately $473,000, bankruptcy related professional fees of approximately $277,000, accounting, tax, audit and audit related fees of approximately $336,000, intellectual property maintenance, licensing, operating and start-up costs (inclusive of FilenesBasement.com) of approximately $317,000, and other professional fees of approximately $120,000. Professional fees for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $2.2 million which consisted of general corporate legal fees of approximately $296,000, bankruptcy related professional fees of approximately $449,000, accounting, tax, audit and audit related fees of approximately $511,000, professional fees related to work on our intellectual property of $937,000 and other professional fees of approximately $44,000. The total decrease in professional fees of $714,000 from 2015 mainly related to the one-time startup costs incurred in 2015 related to the launch of our e-commerce marketplace at FilenesBasement.com. Transaction related costs of $243,000 represent professional fees and other costs incurred in connection with formation activities and underwriting and evaluating potential acquisitions and investments which are required to be expensed in accordance with the accounting for business combinations. Depreciation and amortization expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were approximately $457,000. These costs consisted of depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property of approximately $165,000 and the amortization of trademarks, lease commissions and tenant improvements of approximately $292,000. Depreciation and amortization expenses for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $309,000. These costs consisted of depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property of $122,000, as well as amortization of trademarks and deferred financing costs of $187,000. Operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $7.2 million. Operating loss for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $6.7 million. Net loss in equity of unconsolidated joint venture was approximately $308,000. This amount represents our 50% share in the joint venture of the newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property in Brooklyn, New York purchased on December 5, 2016. Our share of the loss is primarily due to one-time transaction related costs of $198,000 and depreciation and amortization of $110,000. Interest income, net, for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $42,000, which consisted of $2.1 million of gross interest expense offset by $1.9 million of capitalized interest and $223,000 of interest income. Interest expense, net, for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $246,000 which consisted of $1.5 million of gross interest expense offset by $1.2 million of capitalized interest and $87,000 of interest income. Amortization of deferred financing costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $98,000, which consisted of $443,000 of amortization of costs related to obtaining the loans encumbering 77 Greenwich and West Palm Beach, Florida partially offset by $345,000 of capitalized costs. Amortization of deferred financing costs for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $63,000, which consisted of $291,000 of amortization of costs related to obtaining the loan encumbering 77 Greenwich partially offset by $228,000 of capitalized costs. We recorded an adjustment to our claims liability for the year ended December 31, 2016 of $132,000 which was due mainly to the positive settlement of the former Majority Shareholder liability. We recorded an adjustment to our claims liability for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 of $557,000 which was due to the lower settlement of certain claims. 26 We recorded approximately $26,000 in tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016. We recorded tax expense for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 of approximately $67,000. Net loss available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $7.4 million. Net loss available to common stockholders for the ten-month period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $6.6 million. Operating Activities for the Period from February 10, 2015 through February 28, 2015 Total revenues for the period were approximately $43,000. This represents rental revenues for the West Palm Beach, Florida and Paramus, New Jersey properties. Property operating expenses for the period were approximately $14,000 and consists of costs incurred for maintenance and repairs, utilities and general operating costs. Real estate tax expense for the period was approximately $12,000 and consists of real estate taxes for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. General and administrative expenses for the period were approximately $181,000 and consist of payroll and payroll related costs and costs to maintain the corporate office. Of this amount approximately $85,000 relates to stock-based compensation. Professional fees for the period were approximately $121,000. These costs consist of general corporate legal fees of approximately $20,000, bankruptcy related professional fees of approximately $30,000, audit fees of approximately $11,000, professional fees related to work on the intellectual property of $29,000 and other professional fees of approximately $31,000. Depreciation and amortization expenses for the period were approximately $18,000 and consists of depreciation for the West Palm Beach, Florida property. Operating loss for the period was approximately $303,000. Interest expense for the period was approximately $40,000 and mainly consists of interest on the $40.0 million loan payable that has a variable interest rate. Interest of $68,000 was capitalized as part of real estate under development. Amortization of deferred financing costs for the period was approximately $17,000, which consisted of amortization of costs related to obtaining the loan encumbering 77 Greenwich. We recorded tax expense of approximately $2,000 during the period. Net loss available to common stockholders for the period was approximately $362,000. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently expect that our principal sources of funds to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements for working capital and funds for acquisition and development or redevelopment of properties, tenant improvements, leasing costs, and repayments of outstanding indebtedness will include: (1) Cash on hand; (2) Increases to existing financings and/or other forms of secured financing; 27 (3) Proceeds from common stock or preferred equity offerings, including rights offerings; (4) Cash flow from operations; and (5) Net proceeds from divestitures of properties. Cash flow from operations is primarily dependent upon the occupancy level of our portfolio, the net effective rental rates achieved on our leases, the collectability of rent, operating escalations and recoveries from our tenants and the level of operating and other costs. On February 22, 2017, we entered into two secured lines of credit for an aggregate of $12.0 million with Sterling National Bank as lender. The lines, which are secured by our properties located in Paramus, New Jersey, and Westbury, New York, mature in 12 months. We have an option to extend the maturity date of each line for an additional 12 months, subject to certain conditions. The lines, which bear interest at 100 basis points over prime with a floor of 3.75%, are prepayable at any time without penalty. On February 14, 2017, we closed on a private placement of common shares in which we raised gross proceeds of approximately $26.9 million. We also commenced a rights offering to our existing stockholders for up to 3.7 million shares of common stock on March 3, 2017. As of December 31, 2016, we had total cash of $8.4 million, of which approximately $4.7 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $3.7 million was restricted cash. As of December 31, 2015, we had total cash of $41.8 million, of which approximately $38.2 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $3.6 million was restricted cash. Restricted cash represents reserves required to be restricted under the 77 Greenwich Loan agreement (see Note 10 Loans Payable to our consolidated financial statements), and the West Palm Beach, Florida tenant security deposits and loan related reserves. The decrease in total cash during the period from December 31, 2015, to December 31, 2016 was primarily the result of the final payment made to the former Majority Shareholder, the purchase of a 50% joint venture interest in a newly constructed 95-unit multi-family property in Brooklyn, New York, as well as payments for operating expenses and pre-development activities. On May 11, 2016, our subsidiary that owns our West Palm Beach, Florida property, commonly known as The Shoppes at Forest Hill, entered into a loan agreement with Citizens Bank, National Association, as Lender, pursuant to which the Lender agreed to provide a loan in the amount of up to $12.6 million, subject to the terms and conditions as set forth in the loan agreement. Our subsidiary borrowed $9.1 million at closing. This loan requires interest-only payments and bears interest at the 30-day LIBOR plus 230 basis points. The effective rate at December 31, 2016 was 3.07%. This loan matures on May 11, 2019, subject to extension until May 11, 2021 under certain circumstances. The Borrower can prepay the Loan at any time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. On December 8, 2015, we consummated a common stock rights offering and the transactions contemplated by the Investment Agreements, dated as of September 11, 2015, between the Company and each of MFP Partners, L.P. and Third Avenue. The consummation of the rights offering and the transactions contemplated by the Investment Agreements resulted in our issuance of 5,000,000 shares of common stock whereby we received gross proceeds of $30.0 million. On February 9, 2015, a newly formed special purpose entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of ours (TPH Borrower) entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which the lenders agreed to extend credit to TPH Borrower in the amount of $40.0 million (the 77 Greenwich Loan). The 77 Greenwich Loan can be increased up to $50.0 million subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. The 77 Greenwich Loan bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (i) the rate published from time to time in the Wall Street Journal as the U.S. Prime Rate plus 1.25% (the Contract Rate) or (ii) 4.50% and requires interest only payments through maturity. The interest rate on the 77 Greenwich Loan was 4.50% through December 16, 2015, when it was then increased to 4.75% through December 15, 2016 and then increased to 5.00%. The 77 Greenwich Loan was extended to August 8, 2017 after having satisfied certain conditions. We are currently evaluating our options which include, among others, an extension of the existing loan or refinancing as part of a construction loan. The collateral for the 77 Greenwich Loan is our fee interest in 77 Greenwich and the related air rights owned by us with respect to 77 Greenwich. See Note 10 Loans Payable to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We had claims liabilities recorded in our consolidated financial statements of approximately $2.5 million and $10.5 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The claims liability included the multi-employer pension plan of approximately $2.5 million and $3.4 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, which is payable in quarterly distributions of $0.2 million until completely paid (see Note 8 - Pension and Profit Sharing Plans to our consolidated financial statements) as well as the obligation to the former Majority Shareholder of approximately $7.1 million at December 31, 2015. On March 8, 2016, a General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction occurred and on March 14, 2016, we made the final payment to the Majority Shareholder in the amount of approximately $6.9 million. Following this General Unsecured Claim Satisfaction and final payment to the former Majority Shareholder as described above - Claims Payment Process, we satisfied our payment and reserve obligations under the Plan and we had no liability to the former Majority Shareholder at December 31, 2016 (see Note 13 - Related Party Transactions to our consolidated financial statements). 28 At-The-Market Equity Offering Program In December 2016, we entered into an "at-the-market" equity offering program (the ATM Program), to sell up to an aggregate of $12.0 million of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we sold 120,299 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $1.2 million (excluding approximately $218,000 in professional and brokerage fees) at a weighted average price of $9.76 per share. As of December 31, 2016, $10.8 million of common stock remained available for issuance under the ATM Program. Cash Flows Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2016 Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $14.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The net cash used during this period reflects the net loss available to common stockholders of $7.4 million, a decrease in the obligation to the former Majority Shareholder of $6.9 million, a decrease in pension liabilities of $1.4 million and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $1.5 million. This was partially offset by the impact of non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $2.8 million. Net cash used in investing activities for year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $26.2 million. The net cash used reflects the payments for certain property development and redevelopment costs of $11.9 million capitalized as part of the real estate under development as well as our equity investment of $14.3 million in the joint venture which acquired The Berkley property in Brooklyn, New York. Net cash provided by financing activities for year ended December 31, 2016 was approximately $7.6 million. This amount was primarily from the net proceeds of $8.6 million received from the WPB Loan, net proceeds of $0.9 million from the at-the-market stock offering, net of professional fees and brokerage fees, partially offset by the repurchase of approximately $2.0 million of common stock units from certain employees in order to pay withholding taxes on those common stock units for those employees. Cash Flows for the period ended December 31, 2015 Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $7.0 million for the period ended December 31, 2015. The net cash used during this period reflects the net loss available to common stockholders of $6.6 million as well as a decrease in other liabilities, primarily lease settlement liabilities, of $16.2 million and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $1.9 million related mainly to payments of other non-lease related claims, as well as a decrease in pension liabilities of $1.2 million. This was partially offset by a reduction of $18.0 million of restricted cash for the use of paying claims, as well as the impact of non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $1.4 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $6.3 million. The net cash used reflects the payments for certain property development and redevelopment costs capitalized as part of the real estate under development. Net cash provided by financing activities for period ended December 31, 2015 was approximately $27.6 million. This amount was primarily from the net proceeds of $29.6 million from the Rights Offering, partially offset by the repurchase of approximately $2.0 million of common stock units from certain employees in order to pay withholding taxes on those common stock units for those employees. 29 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 (dollars in thousands): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Claims (1) $ 2,547 $ 813 $ 1,734 $ - $ - Operating lease (2) 225 225 - - - Loans payable (3) 49,100 40,000 9,100 - - Interest expense on loans (4) 1,915 1,517 398 - - TotalContractual Obligations $ 53,787 $ 42,555 $ 11,232 $ - $ - (1) This represents the remaining claims payments we expect to make for the multiemployer pension plan. Payments are made quarterly extending through 2019. (2) This represents the operating lease payments for our corporate office in New York, New York. (3) See Note 10 - Loans Payable to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the loans. This excludes $395,000 of net deferred financing costs. (4) This represents the estimated monthly interest expense on the loans that are typically paid on the first business day after the month incurred based on interest rates in effect on December 31, 2016. Capital Expenditures We estimate that for the year ending December 31, 2017, we may incur approximately $9.9 million of capital expenditures and development or redevelopment expenditures (including tenant improvements and leasing commissions) on existing properties. We anticipate funding these capital expenditures through a combination of operating cash flow, additional property level mortgage financings, construction financing, issuance of equity and cash on hand. Future property acquisitions may require substantial capital investments for refurbishment and leasing costs. Inflation Substantially all of our leases provide for separate real estate tax and operating expense escalations. In addition, many of the leases provide for fixed base rent increases. We believe that inflationary increases will be at least partially offset by the contractual rent increases and expense escalations described above. 30 Net Operating Losses We believe that our U.S. Federal NOLs as of the emergence date were approximately $162.8 million and believe our U.S. Federal NOLs at December 31, 2016 were approximately $230.2 million. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that the entire deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategy. Accordingly a valuation allowance of $95.3 million was recorded as of December 31, 2016. We believe that the rights offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder that occurred in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012 resulted in us undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, we believe that we should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, we currently believe that our NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382. However, if we were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, our NOLs could be subject to limitation under Code Section 382. Notwithstanding the above, even if all of our regular U.S. Federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing our NOLs, we may still be subject to the U.S. Federal alternative minimum tax and to state, local or other non-Federal income taxes. On February 12, 2015, we amended our certificate of incorporation to, among other things, add a new provision to the certificate of incorporation intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with our NOLs (the Protective Amendment). The Protective Amendment generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. Accounting Standards Updates See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements.