Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Trinity Place Holdings Inc., which we refer to in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as Trinity, we, our, or us, is a real estate holding, investment, development and asset management company. As part of a series of transactions described below, on February 14, 2024, TPHGreenwich Holdings LLC (TPHGreenwich), a previously 100% owned subsidiary of ours, became owned 95% by us, with an affiliate of the lender under our corporate credit facility (the Corporate Credit Facility or CCF) owning a 5% interest in, and acting as manager of, such entity. The entity holds our real estate assets (and related liabilities), including (i) the property located at 77 Greenwich Street in Lower Manhattan (77 Greenwich), which is substantially complete as a mixed-use project consisting of a 90-unit residential condominium tower, retail space and a New York City elementary school, (ii) a 105-unit, 12-story multi-family property located at 237 11th Street in Brooklyn, New York (237 11th), and (iii) a property occupied by retail tenants in Paramus, New Jersey (the Paramus Property). See Item 2. Properties below for a more detailed description of these properties. We also control a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, a legacy of our predecessor, Syms Corp. (Syms), including FilenesBasement.com, our rights to the Stanley Blacker brand, as well as the intellectual property associated with the Running of the Brides event and An Educated Consumer is Our Best Customer slogan. In addition, we also had approximately $329.3 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) and other tax loss carryforwards at March 31, 2024, as well as approximately $341.3 million of various state and local NOLs, which can be used to reduce our future taxable income and capital gains. Recapitalization Transactions On February 14, 2024, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 5, 2024 (as amended, the Stock Purchase Agreement), between the Company, TPHS Lender LLC, the lender under the Companys Corporate Credit Facility (the Company Investor) and TPHS Investor LLC, an affiliate of the Company Investor (the JV Investor, and together with the Company Investor, the Investor), pursuant to which (i) the Company Investor purchased 25,112,245 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share of the Company (the Investor Shares) for a purchase price of $0.30 per share, (ii) the Company and the JV Investor entered into an amended and restated limited liability company operating agreement of TPHGreenwich (the JV Operating Agreement), pursuant to which the JV Investor was appointed the initial manager of, and acquired a five percent (5%) interest in, TPHGreenwich, as described in more detail below, and TPHGreenwich continues to own, indirectly, all of the real property assets and liabilities of the Company, and (iii) TPHGreenwich entered into an asset management agreement (the Asset Management Agreement) with a newly formed subsidiary of the Company (the TPH Manager), pursuant to which TPHGreenwich hired the TPH Manager to act as initial asset manager for TPHGreenwich for an annual management fee, as described in more detail below (collectively, the Recapitalization Transactions). Under the Recapitalization Transactions, the real estate assets and related liabilities as well as the Corporate Credit Facility became part of TPHGreenwich, with the Company retaining the substantial federal, state and local tax NOLs and other tax loss carryforwards, intellectual property and a 95% equity interest in TPHGreenwich. In addition, the maturity date of each of the mortgage loan agreement (the 77G Mortgage Loan) and mezzanine loan agreement (the 77G Mezzanine Loan) for 77 Greenwich, both of which were assumed by TPHGreenwich, was extended to October 23, 2025 with an option to extend for an additional year, and the maturity date of the Corporate Credit Facility was extended to June 30, 2026. We believe that the Recapitalization Transactions allow for an improved structure for a new investor to invest in the Company, which is less complex as a result of the real estate assets and substantially all liabilities being off-balance sheet. In addition, the parties agreed to certain provisions in the Stock Purchase Agreement to accommodate a new strategic partner that may invest in the Company. Joint Venture Agreement At the closing of the Recapitalization Transactions, the Company and the JV Investor entered into the JV Operating Agreement, with the Company owning 95% of the ownership interests in TPHGreenwich and the JV Investor owning 5% of the ownership interests in TPHGreenwich. Distributions under the JV Operating Agreement first go to the Investor until the JV Investor has received its initial distribution amount in full (which initial distribution amount is the sum of (v) all 23 Table of Contents amounts due under the CCF and 77G Mezzanine Loan, (w) all amounts due in connection with any additional TPHGreenwich debt financing provided by Investor or its affiliate, (x) Investors initial capital contribution, and (y) any additional capital contributions made by Investor), then distributed pro rata pursuant to the members respective percentage interests in TPHGreenwich. If TPH Manager is terminated for Cause under the Asset Management Agreement, as described below, at the option of Investor, the Companys right to distributions from TPHGreenwich will be forfeited and any distribution that would otherwise have been made to the Company will instead be distributed to the JV Investor. JV Investor, in its capacity as manager of TPHGreenwich, will manage, control and conduct the affairs of TPHGreenwich, subject only to certain major decisions set forth in the JV Operating Agreement. Major decisions are (1) entering into any transaction with or for the benefit of Investor or its affiliate, other than any transaction involving Investor or its affiliate providing debt and/or equity to the Company as set forth in the JV Operating Agreement or any arms-length transaction, (2) any amendment or modification of the JV Operating Agreement or any operating agreement of a subsidiary company of TPHGreenwich, or any other agreement with the Company or a subsidiary company of TPHGreenwich if such amendment would materially adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Company in a manner that is disproportionate to the JV Investor, (3) any tax or accounting matter decision relating to net operating losses that would be materially adverse to the Company but not the JV Investor, and (4) the admission of any other member to TPHGreenwich or its subsidiary except as permitted under the JV Operating Agreement. Under the JV Operating Agreement, the Company will retain oversight of the Paramus Property and will have the sole and exclusive right to manage and make decisions regarding the Paramus Property, subject to (i) the Company Investors right to approve any purchase and sale agreement for the Paramus Property that may be entered into in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Stock Purchase Agreement; (ii) the JV Investors right to approve any material modifications of such purchase and sale agreement for the Paramus Property, and (iii) the JV Investors right to approve any dissolution of the owner of the Paramus Property. The Companys liability under any cause of action arising from or in connection with the JV Operating Agreement is limited to its interest in TPHGreenwich, other than with respect to certain Company guaranty liabilities related to (a) any loss or expense incurred by the JV Investor under any non-recourse carveout guaranty or environmental indemnity to a third-party lender, or (b) indemnification and reimbursement from the Company if the JV Investor makes a payment to a third party lender pursuant to a guaranty (other than a non-recourse carve out guaranty or environmental indemnity), in each case, to the extent such loss, expense or payment was caused solely by, or required solely as a result of, the acts or omissions of the Company or the TPH Manager without the prior written consent of the JV Investor. Asset Management Agreement At the closing of the Recapitalization Transactions, the TPH Manager entered into the Asset Management Agreement with TPHGreenwich. The Asset Management Agreement provides that the TPH Manager agrees to provide certain services in connection with the construction (with respect to 77 Greenwich), management, operation, supervision and maintenance of 77 Greenwich and 237 11th. To compensate TPH Manager for such services, TPHGreenwich will pay an annual management fee to TPH Manager equal to the greater of (x) $400,000 or (y) 1.25% of (i) the outstanding principal balance of the CCF plus (ii) the outstanding principal balance of the 77G Mezzanine Loan, plus (iii) the principal balance of any future fundings of any type under the CCF and/or 77G Mezzanine Loan. The Asset Management Agreement will continue until the earlier to occur of (a) both consummation of a sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of 77 Greenwich and 237 11th and the final resolution of the 237 11th litigation, or (b) the earlier termination of the Asset Management Agreement pursuant to its terms. TPHGreenwich has the right to terminate the Asset Management Agreement at any time with or without cause, provided that if the TPH Manager is terminated without cause prior to the 18-month anniversary of the Asset Management Agreement, the TPH Manager will be entitled to a termination payment equal to 75 days payment of the management fee, based on the average fee paid to the TPH Manager during the immediately prior 12 months. After the 18-month anniversary of the Asset Management Agreement, the TPH Manager will also have the right to terminate the Asset Management Agreement in its sole and absolute discretion, upon not less than 75 days prior written notice to TPHGreenwich. As described above, if TPH Manager is terminated for Cause under the Asset Management Agreement, at the option of Investor, the Companys right to distributions from TPHGreenwich will be forfeited and any distribution that would otherwise have been made to the Company will instead be distributed to the JV Investor. The term Cause means (a) the Company ceasing to be a member under the JV Operating Agreement, (b) TPH Manager transfers its rights or obligations 24 Table of Contents under the Asset Management Agreement in violation of the terms therein, (c) TPH Manager files or consents to a petition in bankruptcy, (d) TPH Manager, any Key Manager Employee (defined below) or any affiliate is convicted of fraud or is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a final judgment to have committed an act of fraud, (e) any misappropriation, gross negligence or willful misconduct by TPH Manager, any Key Manager Employee or any affiliate of the foregoing (which is curable one time during the term of the Asset Management Agreement if committed by a non-senior level employee), (f) any of the Company, TPH Manager or any Key Manager Employee is convicted of a felony crime or crime of moral turpitude, (f) any representation or warranty made by TPH Manager under the Asset Management Agreement is untrue in any material respect and remains uncured after notice from TPHGreenwich, (h) a material breach by TPH Manager of the terms of the Asset Management Agreement (other than as set forth above in this definition) which breach has a material adverse effect on TPHGreenwich and remains uncured after notice from TPHGreenwich, or (i) the breach or failure to comply by TPHGreenwich or any subsidiary with any loan documents (other than, in the case of loan documents in which an affiliate of JV Investor is a lender, with respect to any key person provisions relating to Mr. Messinger, our chief executive officer, or a replacement) in the event such breach or failure is caused by the actions of TPH Manager, Key Manager Employee or any affiliate and continues after the giving of any required notice and the expiration of any applicable cure period under such loan documents, and which is not the subject of a forbearance or waiver from such lender. Under the Asset Management Agreement, Key Manager Employee means Mr. Messinger or a replacement officer or employee of TPH Manager with reasonably equivalent skills and abilities (as determined by the JV Investor on behalf of TPHGreenwich in its reasonable discretion). In the event Mr. Messinger fails to be involved in the day-to-day operations of the TPH Manager pursuant to the Asset Management Agreement, TPHGreenwich agrees its sole and exclusive remedy will be to terminate TPH Manager without cause on 30 days notice. On April 26, 2024, the Company and Mr. Messinger entered into an amendment (the Amendment) to Mr. Messingers employment agreement, as amended (the Employment Agreement), and TPHGreenwich and Mr. Messinger entered into a consulting agreement (the Consulting Agreement). Under the Amendment, the parties agreed among other things that the Company will make certain payments to Mr. Messinger in exchange for Mr. Messingers agreement to continue his employment as chief executive officer of the Company until July 31, 2024, unless extended by the parties (the Termination Date). Upon the Termination Date, the Consulting Agreement will automatically become effective, unless the Employment Agreement is otherwise terminated in accordance with its terms. Under the Consulting Agreement, Mr. Messinger has agreed to provide certain consulting services as an independent contractor to TPHGreenwich related to the properties owned by TPHGreenwich, in exchange for certain consulting payments. The Consulting Agreement will remain in effect until June 1, 2026, unless sooner terminated in accordance with its terms. Managements Plans and Objectives Following the Recapitalization Transactions, our primary business is owning over $600 million of federal, and various state and local NOLs and other tax loss carryforwards and a variety of intellectual property assets focused on the consumer sector, as well as a 95% interest in TPHGreenwich and acting as asset manager for the properties owned by TPHGreenwich. With the Company now unencumbered by its real estate and related liabilities, we continue to focus on exploring a range of strategic and financing alternatives to maximize stockholder value and to engage with parties that have expressed interest in the Companys attributes and assets and may see the Company as a potential vehicle for growth, with potential opportunities to recapitalize the Company at a lower cost of capital. The Company has engaged Houlihan Lokey and Ackman-Ziff to act as advisors (the Advisors) in connection with our strategic review process and to assist us in identifying and evaluating potential alternatives, including among others securing an equity and/or debt financing of the Company, refinancing of existing debt, and/or a sale or merger or reverse merger of the Company. There is no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any such strategic transaction on terms or a timeframe acceptable to us or at all. 25 Table of Contents Properties Below is certain information regarding the real estate properties held by TPHGreenwich as of March 31, 2024: Building Size (estimated Leased at rentable Number of March 31, Property Location Type of Property square feet) Units 2024 Owned Locations 77 Greenwich, New York, New York (1) Residential condominium units for sale N/A Paramus, New Jersey (2) Retail 77,000 100 % 237 11th Street, Brooklyn, New York (3) Multi-family 80,000 105 100 % Total 157,000 105 (1) 77 Greenwich. TPHGreenwich has substantially completed the construction of an over 300,000 gross square foot mixed-use building that corresponds to the approximate total of 233,000 zoning square feet. The property consists of 90 luxury residential condominium apartments, 7,500 square feet of retail space, almost all of which is street level, a 476-seat elementary school serving New York City District 2, including the adaptive reuse of the landmarked Robert and Anne Dickey House. As of March 3, 2023, this property had received its temporary certificates of occupancy (TCOs) for 100% of the residential condominium units, lobby, Cloud Club (lounge, terrace, game room, dining room, kitchen and kids play room), mechanical rooms, and portions of the cellar (including the bike and storage rooms.) We have closed on the sale of 39 residential condominium units through March 31, 2024, and we have closed on one more condominium unit since March 31, 2024 with 50 remaining units to sell as of May 14, 2024. We entered into an agreement with the New York City School Construction Authority (the SCA), whereby we constructed a school sold to the SCA as part of our condominium development at 77 Greenwich. Pursuant to the agreement, the SCA agreed to pay us $41.5 million for the purchase of their condominium unit and reimburse us for the costs associated with constructing the school, including a construction supervision fee of approximately $5.0 million. Payments for construction are being made by the SCA to the general contractor in installments as construction on their condominium unit progresses. Payments to us for the land and construction supervision fee commenced in January 2018 and continued through October 2019 for the land and will continue through completion of the SCA buildout for the construction supervision fee. An aggregate of $46.4 million had been paid to us by the SCA as of March 31, 2024 with approximately $176,000 remaining to be paid to TPHGreenwich. We have also received an aggregate of $56.1 million in reimbursable construction costs from the SCA through March 31, 2024. In April 2020, the SCA closed on the purchase of the school condominium unit from us, at which point title transferred to the SCA. The SCA has completed the buildout of the interior space, which is a public elementary school with approximately 476 seats. The school received its final TCO and opened to students in September 2022. There is an inherent risk that the development and sales of residential condominiums may be subject to unknown potential changes in internal and external financial and economic conditions, such as inflation and rising interest rates, and general market conditions, which could impact the business and potential buyers of the residential condominiums for sale. In addition, construction work is ongoing and there continue to be delays and issues the impact of which is not yet known, which may delay final completion. We believe it is possible under generally accepted accounting practices to incur real estate impairment charges in the future in the event these conditions deteriorate. (2) Paramus Property. The Paramus property consists of a one-story and partial two-story, 73,000 square foot freestanding building and an outparcel building of approximately 4,000 square feet, for approximately 77,000 total square feet of rentable space. The primary building is comprised of approximately 47,000 square feet of ground floor space, and two separate mezzanine levels of approximately 21,000 and 5,000 square feet. The 73,000 square foot building is leased to Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: RH) pursuant to a license agreement that began on June 1, 2016, is terminable upon three months notice, and currently is scheduled to end on March 31, 2025. The outparcel building was leased under a short-term license agreement with a tenant whose lease began on October 1, 26 Table of Contents 2023 and ends July 30, 2024. The land area of the Paramus property consists of approximately 292,000 square feet, or approximately 6.7 acres. TPHGreenwich is currently exploring options with respect to a potential sale of the Paramus property. (3) 237 11th Street.In 2018, we acquired a 105-unit, 12-story multi-family apartment building encompassing approximately 93,000 gross square feet (approximately 80,000 rentable square feet) located at 237 11th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, New York for a purchase price of $81.2 million, excluding transaction costs of approximately $0.7 million. The property also includes 6,264 square feet of retail space, all of which is leased to Starbucks Inc. (NQGS:SBUX), an oral surgeon and a health and wellness tenant. Located on the border of the Park Slope and Gowanus neighborhoods of Brooklyn, the property is located one block from the 4th Avenue/9th Street subway station. The 237 11th property offers an array of modern amenities that surpass what is available in the neighborhoods brownstone housing stock. The property also benefits from a 15-year Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Although all apartments are market rate units, they are subject to New York Citys rent stabilization law during the remaining term of the Section 421-a real estate tax exemption. Due to the approval of the Gowanus up-zoning, this property benefitted to the extent of approximately 30,000 square feet of air rights. Due to water damage in apartment units and other property at 237 11th resulting from construction defects which we believe were concealed by the prior ownership team and its contractor, we submitted a notice of claim to our insurance carrier for property damage and business interruption (lost revenue) in September 2018. The insurance carrier subsequently disclaimed coverage for the losses and we filed a complaint against the carrier alleging that it breached the insurance policy by denying coverage. We also filed legal claims against the seller, its parent company, and the general contractor to recover damages arising from defective construction of the building, including defects that resulted in water damage as well as other defects. In addition, the general contractor impleaded into that litigation several subcontractors who performed work on the property. Management expects that TPHGreenwich will recover some portion of the cost incurred to repair the property through the litigations and/or settlement negotiations with the seller, its parent company, the general contractor, the subcontractors, and the insurance carrier, although the amount of damages that may be recoverable in litigation and/or potential settlement negotiations are uncertain at this time, as is the timing of receipt of any such payments. TPHGreenwich will continue to pursue all legal remedies. We incurred significant cash outflows for costs associated with these repairs and remediation, which commenced in September 2019 and were completed as of December 31, 2021. Lease Expirations As of March 31, 2024, TPHGreenwich had one retail license at its Paramus property encompassing 73,000 square feet of leased space with annualized rent of $540,000 per year and expiring in March 2025 and a short-term license for the outparcel building began October 1, 2023 and expiring in July 2024. TPHGreenwich also had a retail lease at the 237 11th property encompassing 2,006 square feet of leased space with annualized rent of $130,000 per year that expires in 2027, a second retail lease at the 237 11th property encompassing 1,074 square feet of leased space with average annualized rent of $94,506 per year that expires in 2036 and a third retail lease at the 237 11th property encompassing 2,208 square feet of leased space with average annualized rent of $153,366 per year that expires in 2032. TPHGreenwich also had a retail lease at 77 Greenwich encompassing 1,061 square feet of leased space with an average annualized rent of $88,085 per year that expires in 2034. All TPHGreenwichs other leases are residential leases most of which expire within twelve or twenty-four months of the commencement date. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are included in this report (see Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Basis of Presentation to our consolidated financial statements for further information). Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. We believe there have been no material changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 27 Table of Contents Operations, in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K (as amended, the 2023 Annual Report) for the year ended December 31, 2023. The following discussion and analysis is intended to assist readers in understanding our financial condition and results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2023 Annual Report. As a result of the closing of the Recapitalization Transactions on February 14, 2024, the results of operations and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 may not be comparable. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Rental revenues in total decreased by approximately $713,000 to $798,000 for three months ended March 31, 2024 from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This consisted of a decrease in rent revenues of approximately $690,000 to $744,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as well as a decrease in tenant reimbursements of approximately $23,000 to $55,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $78,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in total rental revenues and its related components was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above. Other income remained consistent at $120,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, this income represents the management fee earned from TPHGreenwich. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the income was made up of a contractual payment received as a result of the cancelation of the purchase and sale agreement for the Paramus, New Jersey property in January 2023, as well as the SCAs construction supervision fee. Sales of residential condominium units at 77 Greenwich decreased by approximately $11.7 million to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. We closed on one and five residential condominium units during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Units that we closed during 2023 were generally lower priced, smaller units on the buildings lower floors, many of which entered into contract during the height of the pandemic. Property operating expenses decreased by approximately $852,000 to $415,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in property operating expenses was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above, and to a lesser extent lower marketing and operating costs at 77 Greenwich due to four fewer residential condominium units having closed. This was partially offset by no capitalized operating costs associated with 77 Greenwich during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Property operating expenses consisted primarily of expenses incurred for utilities, payroll, and general operating expenses as well as repairs and maintenance and leasing commission at 237 11th, general operating expenses at 77 Greenwich, including marketing costs, and to a lesser extent expenses related to the Paramus, New Jersey property. Real estate tax expense decreased by approximately $98,000 to $365,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $463,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in real estate tax expense was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above and less unsold residential condominium units paying real estate taxes, partially offset by higher assessed values for the unsold residential condominium units as well as less capitalized real estate tax expenses for those units at 77 Greenwich for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compare to the three months ended March 31, 2023. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $338,000 to $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, approximately $32,000 related to stock-based compensation, $632,000 related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $412,000 related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $30,000 related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, approximately $94,000 related to stock-based compensation, $648,000 related to payroll and payroll related expenses, $412,000 related to other corporate expenses, including board fees, corporate office rent and insurance and $290,000 related to legal, accounting and other professional fees. 28 Table of Contents Pension related costs remained relatively flat at $130,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $144,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. These costs represent professional fees and other periodic pension costs incurred in connection with the legacy Syms Pension Plan (see Note 9 Pension Plan to our consolidated financial statements for further information). Cost of sales residential condominium units decreased by approximately $10.9 million to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $12.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. We closed on one and five residential condominium units during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cost of sales consists of construction and capitalized operating costs that are allocated to the respective condominium units being sold, as well as closing costs of the residential condominium units. Units that we closed during 2023 were generally lower priced, smaller units on the buildings lower floors, many of which entered into contract during the height of the pandemic. Depreciation and amortization decreased by approximately $238,000 to $762,000 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for 237 11th of approximately $208,000, the amortization of lease commissions and acquired in-place leases of approximately $96,000 for 237 11th and the amortization of warrants of approximately $452,000 For the three months ended March 31, 2023, depreciation and amortization expense consisted of depreciation for the Paramus, New Jersey property of approximately $282,000, depreciation for 237 11th of approximately $412,000, the amortization of lease commissions and acquired in-place leases of approximately $192,000 for 237 11th, and amortization of warrants of approximately $114,000. Gain on contribution to joint venture was approximately $21.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and represents the gain in the value of the Company relating to the Recapitalization Transactions that closed on February 14, 2024. Equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures was $6.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint venture represented our 95% share of TPHGreenwichs net loss which was primarily comprised of operating loss before depreciation of $368,000, depreciation and amortization of $531,000, interest expense and amortization of deferred finance fees of $5.9 million partially offset by a gain from the change in the fair market value of the interest rate swap of $7,000. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures represented our 10% share in 250 North 10th, which was sold in February 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, our share of the net loss is primarily comprised of operating income before depreciation of $121,000 offset by depreciation and amortization of $77,000 and interest expense of $48,000 for 250 North 10th. Equity in net gain on sale of unconsolidated joint venture property for the three months ended March 31, 2023 represents the February 2023 sale of our interest in the joint venture that owned 250 North 10th to our joint venture partner resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.2 million after repayment of our Partner Loan, where we recognized an approximate $3.1 million gain. Unrealized gain on warrants was $66,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This represents the change in the fair market valuation of the warrants due mainly to the change in our stock price on the measurement date. Interest expense, net decreased by approximately $2.4 million to $3.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $6.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in interest expense was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above For the three months ended March 31, 2024, there was approximately $3.9 million of gross interest expense incurred and no amounts were capitalized into residential condominium units for sale. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, there was approximately $7.0 million of gross interest expense incurred, $689,000 of which was capitalized into residential condominium units for sale. Interest expense - amortization of deferred finance costs decreased approximately $558,000 to $334,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $892,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023 which was principally due to the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above. We recorded an $86,000 in tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $124,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2023. 29 Table of Contents Net income attributable to common stockholders increased by approximately $14.3 million to $8.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from a loss of $6.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This is a result of the changes discussed above, principally due to the gain on disposition recognized from the Recapitalization Transactions mentioned above, partially offset by equity in net loss from unconsolidated joint ventures and interest expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe that the Recapitalization Transactions put us in a stronger financial position and allows for more time to seek a strategic transaction than we would have had otherwise. As of March 31, 2024, we had total cash and restricted cash of $4.0 million, of which approximately $285,000 was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $4.0 million was restricted cash. Under the Recapitalization Transactions, the real estate assets and related liabilities as well as the Corporate Credit Facility became part of TPHGreenwich, with the Company retaining the substantial federal, state and local tax NOLs and other tax loss carryforwards, intellectual property and a 95% equity interest in TPHGreenwich. In addition, the maturity date of each of the 77G Mortgage Loan and the 77G Mezzanine Loan was extended to October 23, 2025 with an option to extend for an additional year, and the maturity date of the Corporate Credit Facility was extended to June 30, 2026. In addition, we were released from all guarantees arising under these loan agreements subsequent to the closing of the Recapitalization Transactions. As part of the amendment, we re-affirmed our guaranty under the Secured Line of Credit. For a discussion regarding these loan agreements, see Note 7 Loans Payable and Secured Line of Credit to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Cash Position In connection with the closing of the Recapitalization Transactions, we believe that we will have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations for the next 12 months, assuming TPHGreenwich does not terminate the Asset Management Agreement with us, which it has the ability to do on short notice. As part of the Recapitalization Transactions, the CCF, 77G Mortgage Loan and 77G Mezzanine Loan were amended and extended, and were transferred to TPHGreenwich. As of May 14, 2024, our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $3.3 million. Cash Flows Cash Flows for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Net cash used in operating activities increased by approximately $8.5 million to $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from net cash provided by operating activities of $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was mainly due to the Recapitalization Transactions that occurred on February 14, 2024 where Trinity transferred assets and liabilities to the TPHGreenwich. Net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $14.1 million to $6.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from net cash provided by investing activities of $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The cash used in investing activities was due to the Recapitalization Transactions that occurred on February 14, 2024 where Trinity transferred cash to TPHGreenwich. The cash provided by investing activities was due to $7.2 million in sale proceeds from the sale of our 10% interest in the 250 North 10th joint venture property in February 2023. Net cash provided by financing activities increased by approximately $21.6 million to $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from net cash used in financing activities of $14.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities primarily relates to the proceeds from loans and corporate credit facility of approximately $2.5 million as well as the approximate $4.5 million from the sale of stock related to the Recapitalization Transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the approximate $16.5 million in repayments of loans, corporate credit facility and notes payable for the three months ending March 31, 2023 partially offset by $2.0 million in borrowings from the secured line of credit for the three months ending March 31, 2023. Net Operating Losses We believe that our U.S. federal NOLs as of the emergence date of the Syms bankruptcy were approximately $162.8 million and believe our U.S. federal NOLs, and other tax loss carryforwards, and state NOLs and other tax loss 30 Table of Contents carryforwards were approximately $329.3 million and $290.6 million, respectively, and our New York State and New York City prior NOL conversion subtraction pools of approximately $27.9 million and $22.9 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2024. In connection with the conveyance of the school condominium to the SCA, we applied approximately $11.6 million of federal NOLs against taxable capital gains of approximately $18.5 million. Since 2009 through March 31, 2024, we have utilized approximately $20.1 million of the federal NOLs. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that the entire deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategies. Accordingly, a valuation allowance of $87.6 million was recorded as of March 31, 2024. We believe that certain of the transactions that occurred in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy in September 2012, including the rights offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former majority shareholder of Syms in accordance with the Plan, resulted in us undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Code. However, while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, we believe that we should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, we believe that our NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. However, if we were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize our NOLs could be subject to limitation under Section 382. In addition, the TCJA limited the deductibility of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80 percent of taxable income (computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction) for the taxable year. However, the CARES Act suspended the 80% limitation on the use of NOLs for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021, and allowed losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2021 to be carried back up to five years. Even if all of our regular U.S. federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing our NOLs, we may still be subject to state, local or other non-federal income taxes. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision intended to help preserve certain tax benefits primarily associated with our NOLs. This provision generally prohibits transfers of stock that would result in a person or group of persons becoming a 4.75% stockholder, or that would result in an increase or decrease in stock ownership by a person or group of persons that is an existing 4.75% stockholder. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including information included or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on or any supplement to this Quarterly Report, may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions that are not historical facts, and other statements identified by words such as may, will, expects, believes, plans, estimates, potential, or continues, or the negative thereof or other and similar expressions. In addition, in some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others: our limited cash resources, our only source of revenue is an asset management fee, and our reliance on external sources of capital to fund operations in the future; we have not generated an operating profit and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long-term viability cannot be assured; risks associated with the Company evaluating and potentially consummating a strategic transaction, including the risk that the Company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction; we are subject to risks associated with TPHGreenwich, including that we may not receive any distributions from TPHGreenwich; 31 Table of Contents one of our primary business purposes following the Recapitalization Transactions is to act as asset manager for the properties owned by TPHGreenwich in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Asset Management Agreement which can be terminated by TPHGreenwich at any time with or without cause; we are subject to extensive covenants, and the Investor has many consent and approval rights, under the Stock Purchase Agreement, many of which survive indefinitely following the closing of the Recapitalization Transactions; our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased commercial and residential real estate generally; the loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business would adversely affect our business; our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset future taxable income and capital gains for U.S. Federal, state and local income tax purposes; TPHGreenwich and its subsidiaries are subject to leverage and face risks generally associated with such debt, including an increased risk of default on the such entitys obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; covenants in the loan agreements could limit TPHGreenwichs flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition; the Company Investor is the lender under the CCF, and an affiliate of the Company Investor and JV Investor is the lender under the 77G Mezzanine Loan, which could create a conflict of interest; adverse trends in the New York City residential condominium market; general economic and business conditions, including with respect to real estate, and their effect on the New York City residential real estate market in particular; TPHGreenwichs ability to enter into new leases and renew existing leases with tenants at the commercial and residential properties; risks associated with the effect that rent stabilization regulations may have on TPHGreenwichs ability to raise and collect rents; TPHGreenwichs ability to maintain certain state tax benefits with respect to certain of the properties; TPHGreenwichs ability to obtain required permits, site plan approvals and/or other governmental approvals in connection with the development or redevelopment of the properties; costs associated with complying with environmental laws and environmental contamination, as well as the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements; the effects of new tax laws; risks associated with current political and economic uncertainty, and developments related to the outbreak of contagious diseases; risks associated with breaches of information technology systems; stock price volatility and other risks associated with a lightly traded stock; our common stock may be delisted; we are eligible to terminate the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act and cease being a U.S. 32 Table of Contents public company with reporting obligations and we may do so in the near future; stockholders may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future; a declining stock price may make it more difficult to raise capital in the future; the influence of certain significant stockholders; limitations in our charter on transactions in our common stock by substantial stockholders, designed to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes, may not succeed and/or may limit the liquidity of our common stock; certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may have the effect of making more difficult or otherwise discouraging, delaying or deterring a takeover or other change of control of us; certain provisions in our charter documents may have the effect of limiting our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for certain disputes; and unanticipated difficulties which may arise and other factors which may be outside our control or that are not currently known to us or which we believe are not material. In evaluating such statements, you should specifically consider the risks identified under the section entitled Risk Factors in our 2023 Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 29, 2024, as amended on April 29, 2024, and under the section entitled Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those contemplated by any forward looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in our 2023 Annual Report, this Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q or, in the case of any documents incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q, the date of such document, in each case based on information available to us as of such date, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.