Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report (including but not limited to factors discussed in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others general economic and market conditions, particularly in the commercial real estate sector; possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems; higher than anticipated costs; unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company or its properties; and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the SEC. Disposition of the Syms and Filenes Retail Businesses On November 2, 2011, Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 in the Court. Prior to November 2, 2011, the business operations of Syms and Filenes, LLC consisted primarily of running retail operations. As the economy worsened, sales continued to erode and, as a result, cash flow suffered. Notwithstanding the efforts of Syms and Filenes, significant operational losses continued to threaten the ongoing businesses. Trade vendors tightened and/or ceased credit terms. As a result, Syms and Filenes projected that absent additional financing or measures to monetize certain assets, liquidity would cease to exist. In response to the Chapter 11 Filings, Syms implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the Petition Date. Net operating results from October 30, 2011 to November 1, 2011 were not material. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs over the anticipated period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. The consolidated condensed financial statements for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 27, 2011 were prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, which contemplated realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations and Cash Flows for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ending August 27, 2011 and the Consolidated Condensed Statement of Cash Flows for the twenty-six week periods ending August 27, 2011 contain all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present a fair statement of interim results. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. Management believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, management has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. 16 Liquidation Basis of Accounting The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Accordingly, the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011. Under this basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value and liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs - Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon the timing of the Chapter 11 proceedings and changes in market conditions. Management reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of the Companys assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. b. Pension Expense - The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared quarterly to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plans. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plans may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The Company accrued the termination value of the pension plans under the liquidation basis of accounting. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Owned real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. Management also identified certain critical accounting policies that applied to the Companys financial reporting until the adoption of the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. These policies are described below. Merchandise Invento r y Merchandise inventories were stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis, as determined by the retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins were calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio between the costs of goods available for sale and the retail value of inventories. The significant estimates used were for markdowns and shrinkage. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns included current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise, fashion trends and weather conditions. In addition, inventory was also evaluated against corporate pre-determined historical markdown trends. When a decision was made to permanently markdown merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction was recognized in the period the markdown was recorded. The timing of the decision, particularly surrounding the balance sheet date, could have had a significant effect on the results of operations. Shrinkage was estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the date of the last physical inventory to the end of the fiscal year. Physical inventories were taken at least annually for all stores and inventory records were adjusted accordingly. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in combination with historical experience, was used as the standard for the shrinkage accrual following the physical inventory. The Company found the use of these estimates to be appropriate and actual results did not differ materially. Long-Lived Assets - In evaluating and measuring an impairment loss, the Company considered individual retail locations to be the appropriate asset group, since the store level was the lowest level at which identifiable cash flows were independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The Company evaluated long-lived assets for impairment at all retail locations on at least an annual basis at the end of each fiscal year, after the holiday selling season, when the Company had the most visibility into the operations of the individual store. The Company also tested an asset group for impairment during the year if any impairment indicators were identified that could result in a potential impairment. 17 If it was determined that such indicators were present and the review disclosed that the assets would not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining useful lives, their carrying values were reduced to estimated fair value. Various factors, including future sales growth and profit margins, were included in this analysis. To the extent these future projections or the Companys strategies changed, the conclusion regarding impairment may have differed from the Companys estimates. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance The Company had considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that could produce additional future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. A net valuation allowance of approximately $46.5 million was recorded in the eight month period ended October 29, 2011. Further valuation allowance of approximately $38.6 million was recorded in the subsequent period from October 30, 2011 through February 25, 2012. An additional valuation allowance of $4.0 million was recorded during the twenty-six weeks ended August 25, 2012. Results of Operations For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports the estimated gains and losses on liquidation. The Company began presenting its financial statements under the liquidation basis of accounting as of October 30, 2011 and discontinued its retail operations on or about December 31, 2011. Because all retail operations have ceased, the results of operations for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 25, 2012 are not comparable to the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 27, 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion relates only to liquidity and capital resources for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 27, 2011. Until October 29, 2011, the Company purchased first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 900 vendors at prices that were believed to be below those generally available to major department and specialty stores, at which time the Company was highly reliant on the trade credit from factors, vendors and service providers. Decreasing availability of trade credit throughout the eight months ending October 29, 2011 limited the Companys available liquidity. Net cash used by operating activities totaled $7.2 million for the twenty-six weeks ended August 27, 2011. Net cash provided by investing activities was $17.1 million for the twenty-six weeks ended August 27, 2011. The $18.2 million in proceeds is primarily attributed to the sale of land, buildings and other assets from three former Syms store locations, partially offset by capital expenditures for property and equipment of $1.1 million. Net cash used by financing activities was $9.9 million for the twenty-six weeks ended August 27, 2011. The cash provided in the 2011 period was the result of net repayments on our credit facility. On August 27, 2009, the Company entered into a secured $75 million revolving credit agreement, which was set to expire on August 27, 2012. That credit agreement, which was amended as of January 7, 2011, March 8, 2011 and June 16, 2011, was among Syms as Lead Borrower, Filenes, LLC, the guarantors named therein, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (the Credit Agreement). Subsequent to the Chapter 11 filings, the Credit Agreement was paid off and terminated on November 18, 2011. At August 25, 2012 and February 25, 2012 the Company had an outstanding letter of credit of $1.1 million for a workers compensation and general liability insurance standby letter of credit, which was cash collateralized. Also at February 25, 2012 the Company had an outstanding standby LC of $0.2 million for merchandise, which was cash collateralized. The Company had no interest charges for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 25, 2012. Total interest charges incurred for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 27, 2011 were $0.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively. There was no capitalized interest for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended August 25, 2012 or August 27, 2011. 18 Subsequent Events Confirmation and Effectiveness of the Plan . On August 30, 2012, the Court entered an order confirming the Plan, the final version of which was co-proposed by the Debtors and the Equity Committee with the support of the Creditors Committee. The Plan sets forth the manner in which claims against and equity interests in the Company and its subsidiaries are to be treated following the conclusion of the Chapter 11 cases. The Plan became effective on September 14, 2012. Upon the effective date of the Plan and pursuant to its terms, Syms and its subsidiaries were reorganized and, subject to the obligations under the Plan, were discharged of all claims. To effect the reorganization, Syms was reincorporated in Delaware by way of a merger with and into Trinity. As a result of the merger, each share of Syms was converted into one share of Trinity. Under the Plan, Trinity will attempt to monetize its real estate assets over time in a manner intended to maximize their value for the benefit of creditors and shareholders, as further described below. Under the Plan, Syms creditors holding allowed claims are entitled to payment in full. The Plan also provides for Filenes, LLC creditors to receive recoveries from the monetization of Trinitys assets. Filenes, LLC short-term creditors are entitled to payment in full on their allowed claims and Filenes, LLC long-term creditors with allowed claims are entitled to a recovery of 75% on their claims. The Company continues to make progress in the reconciliation and settlement of various classes of claims associated with the discharge of liabilities subject to compromise pursuant to the Plan. Following emergence from Chapter 11, the Company paid approximately $9.7 million in allowed administrative claims and, as of October 1, 2012, has reserved approximately $21.7 million for other administrative claims, including professional fees. Due to the significant number of claims filed, it is premature to estimate with any degree of accuracy the ultimate allowed amount of claims under the Plan. The claims reconciliation process may result in material adjustments to current estimates of allowable claims. Trinitys current business plan includes the monetization of 16 real estate properties and the development of 28-42 Trinity Place in Lower Manhattan. Trinity also plans to explore the licensing of its intellectual property, including its rights to the Filenes Basement trademark, the Stanley Blacker and Maine Bay brands, and the intellectual property associated with the well-known Running of the Brides event and An Educated Consumer is Our Best Customer slogan. Rights Offering and Redemption . In connection with proposal of the Plan, Syms entered into the ECA among (i) Syms, (ii) the Majority Shareholder and (iii) the Backstop Parties. The ECA provided that, pursuant to and upon the effective date of the Plan, the Majority Shareholder would sell all of its shares of Syms common stock to Syms at a price of $2.49 per share. Accordingly, on September 14, 2012, immediately following the effectiveness of the Plan, the Majority Shareholder sold all of its 7,857,794 shares of common stock to Syms. Payment for the shares will be made to the Majority Shareholder in accordance with the Plan as Trinitys real estate assets are monetized. In connection with the ECA and pursuant to the Plan, Syms offered to sell to existing shareholders other than the Majority Shareholder, who qualified as accredited investors within the meaning of Regulation D under the Exchange Act, the right to purchase a total of 10,040,160 new shares of Syms at a price equal to $2.49 per share, or approximately $25 million in the aggregate. Pursuant to the ECA, the Backstop Parties agreed to purchase each of their pro rata share of the new shares, as well as new shares that were not subscribed for by other shareholders. Accordingly, on September 14, 2012, immediately following the effectiveness of the Plan, Syms sold 10,040,160 shares of common stock. The foregoing descriptions of certain transactions contemplated by the ECA and the Plan are summaries only and do not purport to be complete and are qualified, in all respects, by the actual provisions of the ECA, the Plan and related documents. On September 7, 2012, Syms sold its Miami, FL property, the building of which is 53,000 square feet, in a Court-approved transaction. The net proceeds from the sale were $4,140,024. On October 8, 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Houston, TX property, the building of which is 42,000 square feet, on an as-is, where-is basis for a purchase price of $3,800,000. Closing is expected to occur within 40 days. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There are no proposed or recently issued accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Company. 19