Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources, for additional discussion). Note 2 Basis of Presentation Liquidation Basis of Accounting In response to the Chapter 11 filing the Company adopted the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the petition date. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value, liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. The Company does not believe it would qualify for fresh start accounting if it were to emerge from liquidation. Under fresh-start accounting, assets and liabilities are adjusted to fair value. Since fresh-start accounting would likely not apply if the Company were to emerge from liquidation, the Companys accounting basis could revert back to the going concern basis of accounting, resulting in all remaining assets and liabilities at that date being adjusted to their net book value less an adjustment for depreciation and/or amortization calculated from the date the Company entered liquidation through the date it emerged from liquidation. Accordingly, if a change in accounting basis were to occur, it would likely result in a decrease in the reporting basis of the respective assets and liabilities. The Company can provide no guarantee that it will emerge from liquidation as a going concern entity, nor can it guarantee the method of accounting that would be adopted upon emergence from liquidation. The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with the liquidation basis of accounting requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates include, among others, realizable value of real estate and other assets, accrued liquidation costs, lease settlement costs, and deferred tax assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 8 Estimated Costs of Liquidation Significant estimates and judgment are required to determine the accrued costs of liquidation, which reflects all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees and other outside services to be incurred during the liquidation period. The companys accrued costs expected to be incurred in liquidation and recorded payments made related to the accrued liquidation costs are as follows (in thousands): Balance Balance November 29, Adjustments March 1, Estimated Costs of Liquidation 2014 to Reserves Payments 2014 Real estate related carrying costs $ 4,658 $ (1,800 ) $ (4,503 ) $ 10,961 Professional fees 3,546 $ 2,724 $ (2,844 ) 3,666 Payroll related costs 1,594 $ 352 $ (1,475 ) 2,717 Other 80 $ (373 ) $ (115 ) 568 $ 9,878 $ 903 $ (8,937 ) $ 17,912 The assumptions underlying the estimated accrued costs of liquidation of $9.9 million as of November 29, 2014 contemplated all changes in estimates resulting from the Plan. The Company reviewed all of its operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, property carrying costs and professional fees to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. The liquidation period is currently anticipated to conclude by July 2015. The following discussion explains the adjustments to the costs of liquidation reserves as recorded during the thirty-nine week period ended November 29, 2014: Adjustments to decrease the reserve for real estate related carrying costs of approximately $1.8 million were recorded during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014. The adjustments were mainly the result of estimated selling expenses for the Trinity Place Property and the actual selling expenses related to the sale of the Secaucus Lease. Adjustments to increase the reserve for professional fees of approximately $2.7 million were recorded during the thirty-nine week period ended November 29, 2014. The majority of the increase reflects the increased costs resulting from the complexities of litigation related to the bankruptcy cases. Adjustments to Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities The following table summarizes adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities under the liquidation basis of accounting during the thirty-nine week period ended November 29, 2014 (in thousands): Adjustments of Assets and Liabilities to Net Realizable Value March 2, 2014 through November 29, 2014 Adjust real estate to estimated net realizable value $ 25 Adjust other claims to net realizable value (40 ) $ (15 ) 9 The following discussion explains the adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities under the liquidation basis of accounting as recorded during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014 : During the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014, there was an increase of approximately $14,000 related to other claims payouts as the Company continues its reconciliation of claims as well as an additional $26,000 of costs related to the sale of common stock in the prior fiscal year. Note 3 New Accounting Pronouncements There are no proposed or recently issued accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Company. Note 4 Financial Position As of November 29, 2014, the Company had total cash of $16.6 million, of which approximately $8.1 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $8.5 million was restricted cash. As of March 1, 2014, the Company had total cash of $15.3 million, of which approximately $9.7 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $5.6 million was restricted cash. The change in total cash during the period was primarily from the payment of Allowed Claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases, the sales of properties, and the daily operations of the Company. The Company has estimated claims liabilities recorded in its consolidated financial statements of approximately $39.7 million and $62.1 million at November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, respectively. The claims liability includes the obligation to former Majority Shareholder of approximately $7.1 million at November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014 (see Note 9 - Related Party Transactions), and a liability for the multi-employer pension plan of approximately $4.2 million and $5.3 million at November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, respectively, which is payable in quarterly distributions of $0.2 million until completely paid (see Note 6 - Pension Plan). For a discussion of the Companys payment of claims and the extension of the creditor payment date, see the discussion in the Claims Payment Process section in Note 1. The Company believes that it would be able to fund its operations through net cash proceeds generated from property sales; however, the Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from such net cash proceeds. As previously discussed, the Companys $5 million corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan has been depleted, primarily due to greater than expected professional fees, and the Company has obtained the consent of the holder of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock who has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, to increase the corporate overhead reserve to $11 million, subject to certain limitations and a reduction of up to approximately $0.8 million if certain anticipated expenses are not incurred. Up to $2.5 million of corporate overhead expenses previously paid by the Company from available cash will count toward and be reimbursed from the increased corporate overhead reserve following receipt of net cash proceeds from future property sales. In addition, during fiscal year 2013, the Company raised $13.0 million, net of $0.5 million in offering costs, from the issuance of stock, which can be used to, among other things, fund overhead and other expenses. The Company believes through the sale of its assets and cash on hand, along with the possibility of additional equity and/or debt financing, it will have the cash necessary to satisfy its required claims distributions and operating activities as contemplated by the plan. On December 31, 2014, the Company filed a motion (the Motion) with the Court to approve, among other things, a proposed loan facility. For more information on the Motion, see Note 10 - Subsequent Events as well as the Current Report Form 8-K filed by the Company on December 31, 2014, which attaches a copy of the Motion, including the proposed loan facility and charter amendment, as Exhibit 10.1 thereto. Note 5 Other Assets Other assets include trademark license intangibles, with a balance of $0.9 million as of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, and security deposits with a balance of $0.2 million and $1.3 million as of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, respectively. Note 6 Pension Plan Syms sponsored a defined benefit pension plan for certain eligible employees not covered under a collective bargaining agreement. The pension plan was frozen effective December 31, 2006. As of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, the Company had a recorded liability of $2.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively, within accrued expenses which represents the estimated cost to the Company of terminating the plan in a standard termination, which would require the Company to make additional contributions to the plan so that the assets of the plan are sufficient to satisfy all benefit liabilities. 10 The Company had contemplated other courses of action, including a distress termination, whereby the PBGC would take over the plan. On February 27, 2012, Syms notified the PBGC and other affected parties of its consideration to terminate the plan in a distress termination. However, the estimated total cost associated with a distress termination was approximately $15 million. As a result of the cost savings associated with the standard termination approach, Syms elected not to terminate the plan in a distress termination and formally notified the PBGC of this decision. The Company will maintain the Syms pension plan and make all contributions required under applicable minimum funding rules; provided, however, that the Company may terminate the Syms pension plan from and after January 1, 2017. In the event that the Company terminates the Syms pension plan, the Company intends that any such termination shall be a standard termination. Although the Company has accrued the liability associated with a standard termination, it has not taken any steps to commence such a termination and has made no commitment to do so by a certain date. Certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements participate in multiemployer pension plans. Syms ceased to have an obligation to contribute to these plans in 2012, thereby triggering a complete withdrawal from the plans within the meaning of section 4203 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Consequently, the Company is subject to the payment of a withdrawal liability to these pension funds. The Company had a recorded liability of $4.2 million and $5.3 million which is reflected in accrued expenses as of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, respectively, and is included as part of the net claims distribution. The Company is required to make quarterly distributions in the amount of $0.2 million until this liability is completely paid to the multiemployer plan. In accordance with minimum funding requirements and court ordered allowed claims distributions, the Company paid approximately $2.4 million to the Syms sponsored plan and approximately $2.8 million to the multiemployer plans from September 17, 2012 through November 29, 2014 of which $0.7 million and $1.2 million were funded during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014 to the Syms sponsored plan and to the multiemployer plans, respectively. Note 7 Contingencies The Company is a party to routine litigation incidental to its former business. Some of the actions to which the Company is a party are covered by insurance and are being defended or reimbursed by the Companys insurance carriers. Based on advice of counsel and available information and taking into account accruals where they have been established, management currently believes that any liabilities ultimately resulting from this routine litigation will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position or net assets (liquidation basis). Note 8 Income Taxes Under liquidation basis accounting all future estimated taxes are accrued as of the reporting date net of the benefit expected to be derived from available net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs). Accordingly, it is not appropriate to record a separate deferred tax asset on the same NOLs. A valuation allowance of approximately $83.7 million was recorded through March 2, 2013. The valuation allowance was reduced by approximately $23.8 million during the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014 to $59.9 million primarily due to the increase in the values of the Companys real estate during the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014 and decreased by $1.4 million during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014 to $58.5 million. Note 9 Related Party Transactions Under the terms of the Plan, the Company is restricted from making any distributions, dividends or redemptions until after the former Majority Shareholder payments are made in full. The Certificate of Incorporation provides for a preferred series share, held by the former Majority Shareholder and which is pledged as security and held in escrow, entitling the former Majority Shareholder to control a majority of the Board of Directors if the former Majority Shareholder payments are not made by October 16, 2016, provided and conditioned upon the general unsecured claim satisfaction having occurred. 11 In addition, as part of the Plan, the former Majority Shareholder agreed to repay the Company $1.6 million for all premiums paid by the Company on her behalf after the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as $0.2 million for the net present value of pre-Sarbanes-Oxley premiums, for a total of $1.8 million. At November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014, the value of these premiums was recorded as an offset against the payment due under the Plan to the former Majority Shareholder on account of the redemption of the former Majority Shareholders shares of Syms common stock. On October 1, 2013 the Company met its Plan obligation to pay the former Majority Shareholder $10.7 million and has a remaining liability of $7.1 million due to the former Majority Shareholder recorded on its Consolidated Statements of Net Assets as of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014. Ms. Syms, the Company and Filenes, LLC also entered into an agreement in connection with the Plan whereby the rights to the Syms name and to any images of Ms. Syms and her family members were assigned to Ms. Syms. The impact of this provision of the Plan has been reflected in the estimated net realizable value of the trademarks within other assets as of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014. Note 10 Subsequent Events Payment of Claims In accordance with the Plan, the Company made additional payments through December 31, 2014 that constituted the full distributions payable to the then presently Allowed Claims (as defined in the Plan) to the holders of Syms Class 2B and Filenes Class 4, as defined in the Plan, in an aggregate amount of approximately $7.5 million, of which payments were made from the Companys restricted cash balance as reported for the fiscal period ended November 29, 2014. Motion filed with Bankruptcy Court On December 31, 2014, the Company filed a motion (the Motion) with the Court seeking the following from the Court: authority to enter into a $40 million loan facility, with the option if certain conditions are met, to add additional term loans not to exceed $10 million to be provided by Sterling National Bank and Israel Discount Bank of New York and secured by the Trinity Place Property; authority to develop, sell or otherwise transfer the Syms Owned Real Estate in whole or in part (as such term is defined in the Plan), including the Trinity Place Property, pursuant to the Plan and Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order Confirming the Modified Second Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Syms Corp. and Its Subsidiaries (the Confirmation Order); authority to amend the certificate of incorporation of the Company to preserve the NOLs by virtue of certain restrictions on transfers of stock and stock ownership that may otherwise result in limitations on the NOLs; confirmation that no mortgage recording, transfer, or similar taxes that may otherwise be incurred due to the transfer of any interest in Syms Owned Real Estate shall be due pursuant to section 1146 of Chapter 11 of the United States Code and the Confirmation Order. The hearing on the Motion is scheduled for January 21, 2015. For more information on the Motion, see the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on December 31, 2014, which attaches a copy of the Motion, including the proposed loan facility and charter amendment, as Exhibit 10.1 thereto. 12 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report, including but not limited to factors discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others, the restrictions contained in the Plan and our certificate of incorporation, including restrictions that may be imposed as a result of certain voting and approval rights of the holder of our Series A preferred stock, the occurrence or lack thereof of some or all of the items contemplated by the Motion, the adequacy of reserves for Company operating expenses, the influence of certain majority stockholders, the Companys ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain conflicts of interest as a result of certain of our directors having affiliations with certain of our stockholders, competition in the real estate business, the ability of the Company to comply with environmental or other laws, the risk of potential uninsured losses and/or claims, asset values, the outcome of litigation, general economic and market conditions, higher than anticipated costs, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control or that are not currently known to the Company. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those contemplated by any forward looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the SEC. Disposition of Retail Operations; Implementation of Liquidation Accounting Prior to November 2, 2011, all of the Companys and Filenes business operations consisted primarily of running retail operations. On November 2, 2011, Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In response to the Chapter 11 filing, the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the petition date. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs through the liquidation date are provided to the extent reasonably determinable. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. 13 The Company has identified certain significant accounting policies that have been applied to the Companys financial reporting after the adoption of liquidation basis of accounting. These policies are described below: a. Accrued Liquidation Costs Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon work required for the claims settlement process, changes in market conditions and changes in the strategy surrounding the sale of properties. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. b. Pension Expense The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared annually to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plans. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plans may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at estimated net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. d. Income Taxes To the extent that income taxes, including alternate minimum income taxes, are expected to be incurred as a result of the liquidation of the Companys properties, such costs are reflected in accrued expenses. As of November 29, 2014 and March 1, 2014 a total of $1.2 million has been accrued. As part of the process of estimating income taxes to be incurred during the liquidation period, management has taken into consideration the extent to which NOLs are expected to be available to offset income otherwise taxable on the sale of properties. This involved a process of estimating the extent to which each property had a fair value in excess of its tax basis (a built in gain) as of the date of emerging from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012. The Company has analyzed the impact of the change in control that occurred on September 14, 2012 when the Company emerged from bankruptcy could have on its ability to utilize its NOLs. While the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, the Company believes that it should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). As a result, the Company believes that its NOLs are not currently subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382 even though an ownership change (as defined under Code Section 382) occurred on September 14, 2012. Also, as a result of the passage of two years from emergence without a subsequent Section 382 ownership change, the pre-emergence federal NOLs will not be forfeited, although they would still become subject to an annual limitation, in the event of such an ownership change in the future. Results of Operations For an entity reporting under the liquidation basis of accounting, the entity is required to present a statement of net assets (which replaces a balance sheet), whereby the assets are reported at estimated realizable amounts and the liabilities are reported at estimated settlement amounts; and a statement of changes in net assets in liquidation (which replaces the statement of operations), which reports changes in estimated fair value and other adjustments recognized during the fiscal year. 14 Operating Activities for the Thirty-Nine Weeks Ended November 29, 2014 Certain information about the properties of the Company sold during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014, including the proceeds generated, net of brokerage commissions and sale costs, is set forth below: Property Location Type of Property Building Size (estimated square feet) Net Proceeds ($ in millions) Date of Sale Berwyn, PA Short term property 69,000 $ 3.0 April, 2014 Secaucus, NJ Short term property 340,000 28.0 May, 2014 Williamsville, NY Short term property 102,000 2.4 September, 2014 Total 511,000 $ 33.4 The liquidation basis of accounting requires management to make significant estimates and judgments. The Company adjusts its real estate assets to reflect the estimated net realizable value of the owned property. The net realizable value is estimated, by considering a number of factors and the views of multiple parties from various vantage points, including input from a third party valuation expert. As a result of the above sales transactions, the value of the Companys real estate assets decreased from $157.7 million as of March 1, 2014 to $123.0 million as of November 29, 2014. During the same thirty-nine week period, the Company used the aggregate net proceeds from asset sales to pay approximately $22.5 million of allowed claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, reducing the Companys liabilities under the Plan. In addition to the sale transactions, the Company received an additional $1.1 million in rents and other cash receipts during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014. Subsequent to November 29, 2014, the Company paid $7.5 million of allowed claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, using the restricted cash balance as reported for the fiscal period ended November 29, 2014, reducing the Companys liabilities under the Plan. The Companys cash operating costs and expenses for the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014 were approximately $10.1 million, of which approximately $5.8 million pertained to real estate related costs, $2.8 million related to professional fees and $1.5 million related to payroll costs. As previously noted, overhead expenses have exceeded the original projections and are outpacing the budgeted reserves, primarily due to professional fees; however the Company has obtained the consent of its Series A stockholder to an increase in operating reserves. As of November 29, 2014, the net assets of the Company available to Common Shareholders was $87.6 million, a slight decrease from $88.5 million as of March 1, 2014, primarily due to an increase in the estimated costs of liquidation expenses. Total assets decreased from $175.4 million at March 1, 2014 to $140.8 million at November 29, 2014 primarily as a result of claims payments made in accordance with the Plan as well as payments of liquidation expenses from the proceeds received from the sales of properties during the period. Liabilities decreased approximately $33.7 million primarily as a result of such payments. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services in order to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the remaining liquidation period. 15 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of November 29, 2014, the Company had total cash of $16.6 million, of which approximately $8.1 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $8.5 million was restricted cash. As of March 1, 2014, the Company had total cash of $15.3 million, of which approximately $9.7 million was cash and cash equivalents and approximately $5.6 million was restricted cash. The change in total cash during the period was primarily from the payment of Allowed Claims in accordance with the terms of the Plan, professional fees related to the Chapter 11 cases, the sales of properties, and the daily operations of the Company. The Company believes that it would be able to fund its operations through net cash proceeds from property sales; however, the Plan imposes restrictions on the amount of operating expenses that the Company is allowed to incur and pay from such net cash proceeds. As previously discussed, the Companys $5 million corporate overhead reserve initially contemplated by the Plan has been depleted, primarily due to greater than expected professional fees, and the Company has obtained the consent of the holder of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock, who has the sole authority to approve an increase in the operating reserves, to increase the corporate overhead reserve to $11 million, subject to certain limitations and a reduction of up to approximately $0.8 million if certain anticipated expenses are not incurred. Up to $2.5 million of corporate overhead expenses previously paid by the Company from generally available cash will count toward and be reimbursed from the increased corporate overhead reserve following receipt of net cash proceeds from future property sales. In addition, during fiscal 2013, the Company raised $13.0 million, net of $0.5 million in offering costs, from the issuance of stock, which can be used to, among other things, fund overhead and other expenses. The Company believes through the sale of its assets and cash on hand, along with the possibility of additional equity and/or debt financing, it will have the cash necessary to satisfy its required claims distributions and operating activities as contemplated by the Plan. On December 31, 2014, the Company filed a Motion with the Court to approve, among other things, a proposed loan facility. For more information on the Motion, see Note 10 - Subsquent Events as well as the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on December 31, 2014, which attaches a copy of the Motion, including the proposed loan facility and charter amendments, as Exhibit 10.1 thereto. Under the Plan, the proceeds of a common equity financing can be used to fund operating expenses in excess of the reserves and for other uses, while the proceeds of a debt financing, following the establishment of reserves, generally must be used to pay creditor claims. Pursuant to the Plan, with limited exceptions, any Excess Cash (as defined in the Plan) from property sales not applied to fund operating expenses must be distributed in accordance with the priorities established in the Plan. Consistent with the terms of the Plan, the Company made payments to creditors and the former Majority Shareholder of $33.7 million during the fiscal year ended March 1, 2014, $22.5 million during the thirty-nine weeks ended November 29, 2014 and subsequently an additional $7.5 million through December 31, 2014. Net Operating Losses The Company believes that the Rights Offering and the redemption of the Syms shares owned by the former Majority Shareholder that occurred in connection with the Companys emergence from bankruptcy on September 14, 2012 resulted in the Company undergoing an ownership change, as that term is used in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). However, the Company has analyzed the impact of such ownership change on its ability to utilize its NOLs, and while the analysis is complex and subject to subjective determinations and uncertainties, the Company believes that it should qualify for treatment under Section 382(l)(5) of the Code. As a result, the Company currently believes that its NOLs are not subject to an annual limitation under Code Section 382. However, if the Company were to undergo a subsequent ownership change in the future, the Companys NOLs could be subject to limitation under Code Section 382. The Company believes that its U.S. Federal NOLs as of the emergence date were approximately $162.8 million and believes its U.S. Federal NOLs at November 29, 2014 are approximately $189.5 million. As a result of the passage of two years from emergence without a subsequent Section 382 ownership change, the $162.8 million of pre-emergence federal NOLs will not be forfeited, although they would still become subject to an annual limitation, in the event of such an ownership change in the future. Notwithstanding the above, even if all of the Companys regular U.S. Federal income tax liability for a given year is reduced to zero by virtue of utilizing its NOLs, the Company may still be subject to the U.S. Federal alternative minimum tax (which imposes a tax generally equal to the amount by which 20% of a corporations alternative minimum taxable income exceeds the corporations regular tax liability, and is calculated in a manner that may reduce the benefit of NOLs) and to state, local or other non-Federal income taxes. 16 Recent Accounting Pronouncements There are no proposed or recently issued accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Company.