Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report (including but not limited to factors discussed, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others general economic and market conditions, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, possible work stoppages, higher than anticipated costs, higher interest rates, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with respect to the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the SEC. Disposition of the Companys and Filenes Businesses On November 2, 2011, Syms and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 in the Court. Prior to November 2, 2011, all of the Companys and Filenes business operations consisted primarily of running retail operations. As the economy worsened, sales continued to erode and, as a result, cash flow suffered. Notwithstanding the best efforts of the Company and Filenes, significant operational losses continued to threaten the ongoing businesses. Trade vendors tightened and/or ceased credit terms. As a result, the Company and Filenes projected that absent additional financing or measures to monetize certain assets, liquidity would cease to exist. In response to the Chapter 11 Filings the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011, which was the beginning of the fiscal month closest to the Petition Date. Net operating results from October 30, 2011 to November 1, 2011 were not material. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Accordingly the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs over the anticipated period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. The consolidated condensed financial statements for the thirteen week period ended May 28, 2011 were prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, which contemplated realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations and Cash Flows for the thirteen week period ending May 28, 2011 contain all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present a fair statement of interim results. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. 15 Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. Liquidation Basis of Accounting The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Accordingly, the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting effective on October 30, 2011. Under this basis of accounting, assets are stated at their net realizable value and liabilities are stated at their net settlement amount and estimated costs over the period of liquidation are accrued to the extent reasonably determinable. a. Accrued Liquidation Costs - Under the liquidation basis of accounting, management is required to make significant estimates and judgments regarding the anticipated costs of liquidation. These estimates are subject to change based upon the timing of the Chapter 11 proceedings and changes in market conditions. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, the estimated fair value of its assets and all other remaining operating expenses and contractual commitments such as payroll and related expenses, lease termination costs, professional fees, alternative minimum income taxes and other outside services to determine the estimated costs to be incurred during the liquidation period. b. Pension Expense - The Company will terminate its pension plans. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, actuarial valuation analyses are prepared quarterly to determine the fair value, or termination value, of the plan. These valuations and the ultimate liability to settle the plan may result in adjustments driven by changes in assumptions due to market conditions. The Company accrued the termination value of the pension plan under the going concern basis of accounting. The liabilities related to these pension plans will be settled at the same payout percentage as all other unsecured creditor claims. c. Long-Lived Assets Owned real estate and other long-lived assets are recorded at net realizable value based on valuations, purchase agreements and/or letters of intent from interested third parties, when available. The Company has identified certain critical accounting policies that applied to the Companys financial reporting until the adoption of the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. These policies are described below. Merchandise Invento r y Merchandise inventories were stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis, as determined by the retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins were calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio between the costs of goods available for sale and the retail value of inventories. The significant estimates used were for markdowns and shrinkage. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns included current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, ageof the merchandise, fashion trends and weather conditions. In addition, inventory was also evaluated against corporate pre-determined historical markdown trends. When a decision was made to permanently markdown merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction was recognized in the period the markdown was recorded. The timing of the decision, particularly surrounding the balance sheet date, could have had a significant effect on the results of operations. Shrinkage was estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the date of the last physical inventory to the end of the fiscal year. Physical inventories were taken at least annually for all stores and inventory records were adjusted accordingly. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in combination with historical experience, was used as the standard for the shrinkage accrual following the physical inventory. The Company has found the use of these estimates to be appropriate and actual results have not differed materially. Long-Lived Assets - In evaluating and measuring an impairment loss, the Company considered individual retail locations to be the appropriate asset group, since the store level is the lowest level at which identifiable cash flows are independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. 16 The Company evaluated long-lived assets for impairment at all retail locations on at least an annual basis at the end of each fiscal year, after the holiday selling season, when the Company had the most visibility into the operations of the individual store. The Company also tested an asset group for impairment during the year if any impairment indicators were identified that could result in a potential impairment. If it was determined that such indicators were present and the review disclosed that the assets would not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining useful lives, their carrying values were reduced to estimated fair value. Various factors, including future sales growth and profit margins, were included in this analysis. To the extent these future projections or the Companys strategies changed, the conclusion regarding impairment may have differed from the Companys estimates. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance The Company had considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that could produce additional future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Based on managements assessment, it is more likely than not that, for federal and state purposes, deferred tax assets will not be realized by future taxable income or tax planning strategies. A net valuation allowance of approximately $46.5 million was recorded in the eight month period ended October 29, 2011. Further valuation allowance of approximately $38.6 million was recorded in the subsequent period from October 30, 2011 through February 25, 2012. An additional valuation allowance of $1.9 million is recorded in the current period. Results of Operations The Company began presenting their financial statements under the liquidation basis of accounting as of October 30, 2011 and discontinued its retail operations on or about December 31, 2011. Since all retail operations have ceased, the results of operations for the thirteen week period ended May 26, 2012 are not comparable to the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion relates only to liquidity and capital resources for the thirteen week period ended May 28, 2011. Until October 29, 2011, the Company purchased first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 900 vendors at prices that was believed to be below those generally available to major department and specialty stores, at which time the Company was highly reliant on the trade credit from factors, vendors and service providers. Decreasing availability of trade credit throughout the eight months ending October 29, 2011 limited the Companys available liquidity. Net cash used in operating activities totaled $2.4 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. Net cash provided by investing activities was $15.9 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. The$16.7 million in proceeds is primarily attributed to the sale of land, building and other assets of the Syms store located in Rockville, MD. Capital expenditures for property and equipment were $0.8 million during the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. Net cash used in financing activities was $13.2 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011. Part of the proceeds from the sale of the Rockville, MD property was used to pay down debt during the quarter ended May 28, 2011. On August 27, 2009, the Company entered into a secured $75 million revolving credit agreement, which was set to expire on August 27, 2012. That credit agreement, which was amended as of January 7, 2011, March 8, 2011 and June 16, 2011, was among Syms as Lead Borrower, Filenes Basement, LLC (together with the Lead Borrower, collectively the Borrowers), the guarantors named therein, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (the Credit Agreement). Subsequent to the Chapter 11 filings, the Credit Agreement was paid off and terminated on November 18, 2011. 17 At May 26, 2012 and February 25, 2012 the Company had outstanding letters of credit of $1.3 million, of which $1.1 million is for a standby LC for workers compensation and general liability insurance and $0.2 million is a standby LC for merchandise, which was cash collateralized. The Company had no interest charges for the thirteen weeks ended May 26, 2012. Total interest charges incurred for the thirteen weeks ended May 28, 2011 were $0.5 million. There was no capitalized interest for thirteen weeks ended May 26, 2012 or May 28, 2011. See Note 6 to the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Credit Agreement. Subsequent Event As part of a proposed plan of reorganization of the Company, which requires approval of the Bankruptcy Court, the Company intends to enter into an Equity Commitment Agreement (the ECA) among (i) the Company, (ii) Marcy Syms, (iii) the Laura Merns Living Trust (the Merns Trust), (iv) the Marcy Syms Revocable Living Trust, as amended (the Marcy Syms Trust and, together with Marcy Syms and the Merns Trust, the Majority Shareholder) and (v) the certain specified members of the Equity Committee of the Company and their affiliates (the Backstop Parties). The ECA contemplates that the Majority Shareholder will sell all of its 7,857,794 shares (approximately 54.7% of the currently outstanding shares of the Company), to the Company, at a price of $2.49 per share, or approximately $20 million in the aggregate. In connection with the ECA, the Company will offer to sell to existing minority shareholders other than the Majority Shareholder, who qualify as accredited investors within the meaning of Regulation D under the Exchange Act, the right to purchase a total of 10,040,160 new shares of the Company at a price equal to $2.49 per share, or approximately $25 million in the aggregate (the Rights Offering). Pursuant to the ECA, the Backstop Parties agree to purchase each of their pro rata share of the new shares made available in the Rights Offering, as well as new shares that are not subscribed for by other shareholders in the Rights Offering. The funds from the Rights Offering will be used, first, to pay certain administrative costs and other amounts necessary for the Company and Filenes to exit Chapter 11, with the balance utilized to pay creditors and to reduce the Companys obligation to pay the Majority Shareholder for her shares as described above. This proposed transaction remains subject to approval by the parties thereto, the Equity Committee of the Company, the Creditors Committee of the Company, the Board and the Bankruptcy Court. No definitive agreements relating to the proposed transaction have been executed at this time. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There are no proposed or recently issued accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Company.