Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements On November 2, 2011, Syms Corp. and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (Bankruptcy Code or Chapter 11) in the United States Bankruptcy Court (Court) for the District of Delaware. Disposition of the Companys and Filenes Businesses Prior to November 2, 2011, all of the Companys and Filenes business operations consisted primarily of running retail operations. As the economy worsened, sales continued to erode and, as a result, cash flow suffered. Notwithstanding the best efforts of the Company and Filenes, significant operational losses continued to threaten the on-going businesses. Trade vendors tightened and/or ceased credit terms. As a result, the Company and Filenes projected that absent additional financing or measures to monetize certain assets, liquidity would come to an end. The consolidated financial statements for the period ended October 29, 2011 were prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, which contemplated realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations, Shareholders Equity and Cash Flows contain all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company as of October 29, 2011, and the results of operations and changes in cash flows for the two and eight months then ended on a going concern basis. The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). As applicable under such rules and regulations, certain information and footnote disclosures have been condensed or omitted. The Company believes that all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. For further information, refer to the financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Companys annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 26, 2011. The liquidation basis of accounting is appropriate when the liquidation of a company appears imminent and the net realizable value of its assets is reasonably determinable. Accordingly the Company implemented the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. Under this basis of accounting, assets and liabilities are stated at their net realizable value and estimated costs through the liquidation date are provided to the extent reasonably determinable. 11 SYMS CORP. This Quarterly Report (including but not limited to factors discussed below, in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) includes forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934) and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management of the Company as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Quarterly Report, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, plan, and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or the management of the Company, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks, including among others general economic and market conditions, possible disruptions in the Companys information or communication systems, possible work stoppages or increases in labor costs, higher than anticipated costs, higher interest rates, unanticipated difficulties which may arise with the liquidation of Filenes Basement, the Company and other factors which may be outside the Companys control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcomes may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph and elsewhere described in this Quarterly Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys critical accounting estimates under going concern accounting for the period ended October 29, 2011 are consistent with those included in its annual report on Form 10K. See note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10Q for a discussion of accounting estimates and judgments made under the liquidation basis of accounting related to the accrued costs of liquidation and adjustments related to the carrying value of assets and liabilities. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from the Companys estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. The Company believes that its application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are reevaluated periodically, and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Historically, the Company has found the application of accounting policies to be appropriate, and actual results have not differed materially from those determined using necessary estimates. The Companys accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, located in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010. The Company has identified certain critical accounting policies that applied to the Companys financial reporting until the adoption of the liquidation basis of accounting on October 30, 2011. These policies are described below. Merchandise Invento r y Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis, as determined by the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio between the costs of goods available for sale and the retail value of inventories. For a brief period, from October 4, 2009 through October 2, 2010, the Syms stores utilized a different method, the moving weighted average cost method. Under the moving weighted average cost method, inventory cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying an average cost based on the cost of goods available for sale divided by the number of units available for sale. After the Company completed the acquisition of certain assets of Filenes Basement Inc., the Company found itself in the position that a portion of its business was utilizing the moving average cost method and a portion of its business was utilizing the retail inventory method. The Company thus was faced with the choice of either converting Filenes to the moving average cost method or transitioning the Syms stores back to the system that they had previously utilized. The Company determined that it would be more effective to revert back to the retail inventory method. The change in the method of recording Syms inventory in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and the third quarter of fiscal 2010 did not have a material impact on reported results of operations. The significant estimates used are for markdowns and shrinkage. 12 SYMS CORP. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise, fashion trends and weather conditions. In addition, inventory is also evaluated against corporate pre-determined historical markdown trends. When a decision is made to permanently markdown merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The timing of the decision, particularly surrounding the balance sheet date, can have a significant effect on the results of operations. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the date of the last physical inventory to the end of the fiscal year. Physical inventories are taken at least annually for all stores and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in combination with historical experience, is used as the standard for the shrinkage accrual following the physical inventory. The Company has found the use of these estimates to be appropriate and actual results have not differed materially. However, the Company is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause its future estimates to differ materially from past experience. Long-Lived Assets - In evaluating and measuring an impairment loss, the Company considers individual retail locations to be the appropriate asset group, since the store level is the lowest level at which identifiable cash flows are independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The Company evaluates long lived assets for impairment at all of our retail locations on at least an annual basis at the end of each fiscal year, after the holiday selling season, when the Company has the most visibility into the operations of the individual store. The Company will also test an asset group for impairment during the year if any impairment indicators are identified that could result in a potential impairment. If it is determined that such indicators are present and the review discloses that the assets will not be fully recoverable, based on undiscounted estimated cash flows over the remaining useful lives, their carrying values are reduced to estimated fair value. Various factors, including future sales growth and profit margins, are included in this analysis. To the extent these future projections or the Companys strategies change, the conclusion regarding impairment may differ from the Companys current estimates. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance - The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that could produce additional future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Should the Company determine that it will not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Results of Operations Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion relates only to results from continuing operations through October 29, 2011. Net sales were $66.5 million during the two months ended October 29, 2011. Sales were $86.3 million in the second quarter ended August 27, 2011. Sales volume was impacted by the fact that Gordon Brothers undertook the liquidation of five stores (Rockville Pike, MD; Watertown, MA; Peabody, MA; Braintree, MA and Saugus, MA) during the period. The Company reported sales for these locations for 46 days during two months ended October 29, 2011 compared with 90 days for the three months ended November 27, 2010. Sales for the three months ended November 27, 2010 were $120.7 million. Sales for the first eight months of the fiscal year ended October 29, 2011 were $258.2 million versus $344.3 million for the nine month period ended November 27, 2010. Due to the implementation of liquidation based accounting effective October 29, 2011, these amounts are not comparable. Gross profit was $23.7 million, or 35.7% of net sales, for the two months ended October 29, 2011 compared with $51.3 million, or 42.5% of net sales, for the three months ended November 27, 2010. This decrease as a percent of net sales was due primarily to lower inventory levels compared to the prior year, as well as the impact of the liquidation of five stores by Gordon Brothers that started mid October 2011. Gross profit was $100.2 million, or 38.8% of net sales, for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 compared with $142.2 million, or 41.3% of sales, for the nine months ended November 27, 2010. This decrease as a percent of net sales was due primarily to lower inventory levels compared to the prior year, higher levels of markdowns in the current year, increased advertising and promotions to generate sales as well as the impact of the five store liquidation run by Gordon Brothers that started mid October 2011. 13 SYMS CORP. Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) was $21.8 million for the two months ended October 29, 2011, compared to $27.2 million for the second quarter ended August 27, 2011 and $32.0 million for the three months ended November 27, 2010. SG&A expenses for the eight month period ended October 29, 2011 were $76.1 million compared to $99.7 million for the nine month period ended November 27, 2010. Due to the shortened time period during fiscal 2011 as a result of the implementation of liquidation based accounting effective October 30, 2011, these amounts are not comparable. Advertising expense for the two months ended October 29, 2011 was $0.5 million as compared to $0.7 million for the second quarter ended August 27, 2011 and $1.7 million for the three months ended November 27, 2010. Advertising expense for the eight month period ended October 29, 2011 was $2.5 million as compared to $5.9 million for the nine month period ended November 27, 2010. During the course of fiscal year 2011, the Company refocused the level and timing of its advertising expenditures and campaigns by decreasing spending on radio, print and outdoor signage. The use of social media and enhanced messaging to customers through email blasts and the Company websites enabled the Company to actively market in a targeted manner while reducing advertising expenses throughout the year. Occupancy costs (net) were $9.8 million for the two months ended October 29, 2011 as compared to $17.1 million for the three months ended August 27, 2011 and $14.8 million for the three months ended November 27, 2010. The decrease was primarily related to partial rent expense for five liquidating stores and a shortened quarter. Occupancy for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 was $43.1 million compared to $44.5 million for the nine months ended November 27, 2010. Included as a reduction of net occupancy cost is rental income from third parties on real estate holdings incidental to the Companys retail operations. For the two months ended October 29, 2011 and three months ended November 27, 2010, rental income was $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively. For the eight months ended October 29, 2011 and the nine months ended November 27, 2010, the rental income was $1.4 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Other expense was $3.3 million for the two months ended October 29, 2011, of which $1.1 million of these costs is associated with the settlement of the Fulton, NY Store and $2.2 million is associated with the settlement of the Fifth Avenue, NY location. For the eight months ended October 29, 2011, other expenses was $4.8 million of which $1.5 million were estimated costs associated with the retro-fit of the Park Avenue, NY store and the settlement of the Fulton lease obligation of $1.1 million and Fifth Avenue lease obligation of 2.6 million. Gain on disposition of assets for the two month period ended October 29, 2011 of $1.5 million was realized as a result of a gain on the sale and leaseback of the Tampa, FL location. Gain on disposition of assets for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 was $7.6 million due primarily to the gain on the sale and leaseback of the Tampa, FL location, the sale of the store located in Rockville, MD, the proceeds of a partial condemnation of the property adjacent to the Marietta, GA store, offset by the loss from the sale of the North Randall, OH location. For the three month period ended November 27, 2010, a charge of $1.7 million was incurred primarily for an impairment charge for one store, the Companys change in operation of its distribution facilities to Auburn, MA and closing of the Massachusetts office space. Depreciation and amortization expense was $2.5 million for the two months ended October 29, 2011 as compared to $3.6 million for the three months ended November 27, 2010. Depreciation and amortization expense for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 was $9.8 million and $10.5 million for the nine months ended November 27, 2010. 14 SYMS CORP. Interest expense was $0.3 million for the two months ended October 29, 2011 as compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended November 27, 2010. For the eight months ended October 29, 2011 and the nine months ended November 27, 2010, interest expense was $1.1 million each, respectively. These expenses are a result of borrowings on the Companys revolving credit facility during this period. As a result of the above-noted items, the loss before income taxes for the two months ended October 29, 2011 was $12.9 million as compared to a loss of $3.8 million for the three months ended November 27, 2010. For the eight month period ended October 29, 2011 the loss before income taxes was $29.6 million compared to loss of $23.4 million for the nine month period ended November 27, 2010. For the eight week period ended October 29, 2011 (pre-filing period), the effective income tax rate was (410.0%) as compared to 12.2% for the thirteen week period ended November 27, 2010. For the thirty-five week period ended October 29, 2011, the effective income tax rate was (156.7%) as compared to 35.6% for the thirty-nine week period ended November 27, 2010. The change in the rate is primarily the result of the change in the assessment of the realization of the deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until October 29, 2011, the Company purchased first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 900 vendors at prices we believed to be below those generally available to major department and specialty stores. We are no longer making merchandise purchases from these vendors as a result of our Chapter 11 filing and do not to expect to resume making such purchases in the future. However, until we ceased merchandise purchases, we were highly reliant on the trade credit from factors, vendors and service providers. Decreasing availability of trade credit during the most recent fiscal quarter limited our available liquidity. Net cash used in operating activities totaled $10.0 million for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 as compared with $24.0 million for the nine months ended November 27, 2010. The net cash used in operating activities for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 reflects the net loss, and a change in working capital due to lower operating expenses offset by the impact of reduced inventory. Net cash provided by investing activities was $20.9 million for the eight months ended October 29, 2011 compared to the net cash used of $7.7 million for the nine months ended November 27, 2010, comprised of proceeds from the sale of land, buildings and other assets for four store locations for $22.0 million, partially offset by capital expenditures for property and equipment of $1.2 million. Capital expenditures for the same period last year for the property and equipment were $14.1 million partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of land, building and other assets of two locations for $6.4 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $10.9 million for the eight months ended October 29, 2011, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $33.4 million for the nine months ended November 27, 2010. The cash used this year was the result of net repayments on our credit facility. On August 27, 2009, the Company entered into a secured $75 million revolving credit agreement, which was set to expire on August 27, 2012. That credit agreement, which was amended as of January 7, 2011, March 8, 2011 and June 16, 2011, was among Syms Corp., as Lead Borrower, Filenes Basement, LLC (together with the Lead Borrower, collectively the Borrowers), the guarantors named therein, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement was paid off and terminated on November 18, 2011. Availability under the Credit Agreement was based on a borrowing base consisting generally of certain inventory, credit card receivables, mortgaged real estate and cash collateral (the Borrowing Base). In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company recognized approximately $1.1 million of deferred financing costs, which were being amortized over the term of the agreement. The Credit Agreement bore interest at various rates depending on availability under a formula set forth in the Credit Agreement. As of November 18, 2011, the date on which the Credit Agreement was paid off, the interest rate was Prime +2.50% or LIBOR +3.50%. In addition, the Borrowers were subject to certain negative covenants customary for credit facilities of this size, type and purpose. These covenants restricted or limited, among other things, their ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on their assets, dispose of assets, make acquisitions and investments, merge, dissolve or consolidate and pay dividends, redeem equity and make other restricted payments. 15 SYMS CORP. The Credit Agreement set forth financial conditions which were required in order for a Borrower (i) to (a) acquire a controlling interest in another entity, all or substantially all of the assets of another entity or a business unit of another entity; (b) enter into a merger or consolidation having the same effect; or (c) acquire additional store locations from another entity; (ii) to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire equity interests issued by it or (iii) to make a voluntary prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance of indebtedness permitted by the Credit Agreement (other than indebtedness subordinated to the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement). These conditions required that: (j) No default exists under the Credit Agreement; (ii) After giving effect to the contemplated transaction, Average Daily Availability for each month during the 12 months following such transaction be at least equal to 30% of the Loan Cap; and (iv) The consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, after giving pro forma effect to such transaction for the 12 months prior to such transaction be at least 1.2:1.0. Average Daily Availability was computed for each month as follows: (a) for each day during such month the excess of the Loan Cap at the close of business over the outstanding principal amount of the loans and letter of credit obligations at the close of business is determined, (b) the sum of the figures resulting from the computations in clause (a) is determined and (c) such sum is divided by the number of days in such month. The Loan Cap for each day was an amount equal to the lesser of $75 million and the Borrowing Base (as described above) for such day, plus, in each case, the outstanding principal amount of the term loan for such day. Determination of whether the second or third condition described above was satisfied requires the Company to give effect to the contemplated transaction. Thus, unless and until a specific transaction was proposed, no calculation was required or could be made with respect to these conditions. No transactions giving rise to this calculation occurred during the fiscal quarter ended November 26, 2011. In addition, the restriction on indebtedness provided for an availability of up to $5,000,000 at any time outstanding for indebtedness incurred to acquire fixed or capital assets, as well as customary carve-outs for existing debt, intercompany debt, guaranties in favor of suppliers and the like. As of November 26, 2011, the Borrowers have no such indebtedness outstanding. The Credit Agreement contained a financial covenant which required that the Borrowers maintain at all times unutilized borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement in an amount of not less than 10% of the Borrowing Base described above (or $7.5 million, whichever is less). As of October 29, 2011, the Borrowing Base was $48.0 million, which means that the Company was required to maintain unutilized borrowing capacity of not less than $4.8 million. As of October 29, 2011, $20.3 million was outstanding . The Credit Agreement had sub-limits for letters of credit which when utilized, reduced availability under the Credit Agreement. At October 29, 2011, the Company had outstanding letters of credit of $11.1 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for a description of the Recent Accounting Pronouncements including the respective dates of adoption and the effects on Results of Operations and Financial Condition.