MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Results This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 (this Report) contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). For ease of presentation, this Report shows reporting periods ending on calendar quarter end dates as of and for all periods presented, unless otherwise indicated. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business, and can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements may include words such as expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, target, strategy, continue, may, will, should, variations of such words, or other words and terms of similar meaning. All forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment and are based on several factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risks as identified in the Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2017, and other risks as identified from time to time in our SEC reports. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not have, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly release any updates or any changes in our expectations, or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Statements made in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, include the use of the terms us, we, our, the Company and Synaptics to refer to Synaptics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading worldwide developer and supplier of custom-designed human interface product solutions that enable people to interact more easily and intuitively with a wide variety of mobile computing, communications, entertainment, and other electronic devices. We currently generate revenue from the markets for smartphones, tablets, personal computer, or PC, products, primarily notebook computers, internet of things which includes devices with voice, speech and video within smart homes, and other select electronic devices, including devices in automobiles, with our custom human interface solutions. Every solution we deliver either contains or consists of our touch-, display driver-, fingerprint authentication-based-, voice and speech-, and video- semiconductor solutions, which include our chip, customer-specific firmware, and software. Many of our customers have manufacturing operations in China, and many of our OEM customers have established design centers in Asia. With our expanding global presence, including offices in Armenia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the United States, we are well positioned to provide local sales, operational, and engineering support services to our existing customers, as well as potential new customers, on a global basis. Our manufacturing operations are based on a variable cost model in which we outsource all of our production requirements and generally drop ship our products directly to our customers from our contract manufacturers facilities, thereby reducing the need for significant capital expenditures and allowing us to minimize our investment in inventories. This approach requires us to work closely with our contract manufacturers and semiconductor foundries to ensure adequate production capacity to meet our forecasted volume requirements. We provide our contract manufacturers with rolling forecasts and issue purchase orders based on our anticipated requirements. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our contract manufacturers. We use third-party wafer manufacturers to supply wafers and third-party packaging manufacturers to package our proprietary ASICs. In certain cases, we rely on a single source or a limited number of suppliers to provide other key components of our products. Our cost of revenue includes all costs associated with the production of our products, including materials; logistics; amortization of intangibles related to acquired developed technology, backlog, and supplier arrangements; fair value adjustments for inventory acquired in a business purchase transaction; manufacturing, assembly, and test costs paid to third-party manufacturers; and related overhead costs associated with our indirect manufacturing operations personnel. Additionally, we charge all warranty costs, losses on inventory purchase obligations, and write-downs to reduce the carrying value of obsolete, slow moving, and non-usable inventory to net realizable value, to cost of revenue. Our gross margin generally reflects the combination of the added value we bring to our OEM customers products by meeting their custom design requirements and the impact of our ongoing cost-improvement programs. These cost-improvement programs include reducing materials and component costs, and implementing design and process improvements. Our newly introduced products 22 may have lower margins than our more mature products, which have realized greater benefits associated with our ongoing cost-improvement programs. As a result , new product introductions may initially negatively impact our gross margin. Our research and development expenses include costs for supplies and materials related to product development, as well as the engineering costs incurred to design ASICs and human interface solutions for OEM customers prior to and after their commitment to incorporate those solutions into their products. We are continuing our commitment to the technological and design innovation required to maintain our position in our existing markets, and to adapt our existing technologies or develop new technologies for new markets. Selling, general, and administrative expenses include expenses related to sales, marketing, and administrative personnel; internal sales and outside sales representatives commissions; market and usability research; outside legal, accounting, and consulting costs; and other marketing and sales activities. Acquired intangibles amortization, included in operating expenses, consists primarily of amortization of customer relationship and trademark intangible assets recognized under the purchase method for business combinations. Restructuring costs primarily reflect severance and facilities costs related to our restructuring of operations to reduce operating expenses. These headcount-related costs and facilities costs were in cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Interest and other income/(expense), net, primarily reflects interest expense on convertible notes as well as the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on convertible notes. Equity investment loss includes amortization of intangible assets as well as our portion of the net loss reflected under the equity method of accounting in connection with our investment in OXi Technology Ltd. Acquisitions Conexant On June 11, 2017, we entered into a stock purchase agreement to acquire all of the outstanding limited liability company interests of Conexant Systems, LLC, or Conexant, a technology leader in voice and audio processing solutions for the smart home, or the Conexant Acquisition. The Conexant Acquisition is intended to increase our presence in the smart home market and increase opportunities to grow revenue. Effective as of July 25, 2017, we completed the Conexant Acquisition of 100% of the outstanding limited liability interests of Conexant. The results of Conexant are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period from July 25, 2017 through September 30, 2017. For further discussion of the Conexant Acquisition, see Note 6 Acquisitions included in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Marvell On June 11, 2017, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire the assets of the multimedia solutions business of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., or Marvell, a leading provider of advanced video and audio processing applications for the smart home , or the Marvell Business Acquisition. The Marvell Business Acquisition is also intended to increase our presence in the smart home market and increase opportunities to grow revenue. Effective as of September 8, 2017, we completed the Marvell Business Acquisition. The results of Marvell are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the period from September 8, 2017 through September 30, 2017. For further discussion of the Marvell Business Acquisition, see Note 6 Acquisitions included in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared with our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2017. 23 Results of Operations As a result of our recent acquisitions, we are presenting a new revenue line for revenue derived from the Internet of Things, or IoT market. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period revenue presentation to conform to the current period revenue presentation. Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated, together with comparative absolute and percentage changes in these amounts, were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 (1) 2016 $ Change % Change Mobile product applications $ 292.9 $ 314.0 $ (21.1 ) (6.7 %) PC product applications 65.3 54.9 10.4 18.9 % Internet of things product applications 59.2 17.3 41.9 242.2 % Net revenue $ 417.4 $ 386.2 31.2 8.1 % Gross margin 114.4 123.4 (9.0 ) (7.3 %) Operating expenses: Research and development 87.1 73.4 13.7 18.7 % Selling, general, and administrative 40.3 34.6 5.7 16.5 % Acquired intangibles amortization 4.1 4.5 (0.4 ) (8.9 %) Restructuring costs (0.2 ) 5.3 (5.5 ) 100.0 % Operating income/(loss) (16.9 ) 5.6 (22.5 ) (401.8 %) Interest and other income/(expense), net (6.0 ) (0.9 ) (5.1 ) (566.7 %) Income/(loss) before provision for income taxes (22.9 ) 4.7 (27.6 ) (587.2 %) Provision for income taxes 3.2 1.0 2.2 220.0 % Equity investment loss (0.4 ) - (0.4 ) - Net income/(loss) $ (26.5 ) $ 3.7 $ (30.2 ) (816.2 %) (1) Includes the post-acquisition results of operations from the Conexant Acquisition, completed on June 25, 2017, and from the Marvell Business Acquisition, completed on September 8, 2017. Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of income presented here as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Percentage Point September 30, Increase/ 2017 (1) 2016 (Decrease) Mobile product applications 70.2 % 81.3 % (11.1 %) PC product applications 15.6 % 14.2 % 1.4 % Internet of things product applications 14.2 % 4.5 % 9.7 % Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 0.0 % Gross margin 27.4 % 32.0 % (4.6 %) Operating expenses: Research and development 20.9 % 19.0 % 1.9 % Selling, general, and administrative 9.7 % 9.0 % 0.7 % Acquired intangibles amortization 1.0 % 1.2 % (0.2 %) Restructuring costs 0.0 % 1.4 % (1.4 %) Operating income/(loss) (4.0 %) 1.5 % (5.5 %) Interest and other income/(expense), net (1.4 %) (0.2 %) (1.2 %) Income/(loss) before provision for income taxes (5.5 %) 1.2 % (6.7 %) Provision for income taxes 0.8 % 0.3 % 0.5 % Equity investment loss (0.1 %) 0.0 % (0.1 %) Net income/(loss) (6.3 %) 1.0 % (7.3 %) (1) Includes the post-acquisition results of operations from the Conexant Acquisition, completed on June 25, 2017, and from the Marvell Business Acquisition, completed on September 8, 2017. 24 Net Revenue Net revenue was $417.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared with $386.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $31.2 million, or 8.1%. Of this net revenue, $292.9 million, or 70.2% was from mobile product applications, $65.3 million, or 15.6%, was from PC product applications, and $59.2, or 14.2% was from IoT product applications. The increase in net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2017, was attributable to an increase in net revenue from IoT and PC product applications, partially offset by a decline in net revenue from mobile product applications. Net revenue from IoT product applications increased primarily as a result of the Conexant Acquisition and Marvell Business Acquisition. PC product applications increased as a result of more units sold (13.5% more units) and higher average selling prices for PC product applications (which increased 4.8%). Mobile product applications decreased as a result of a decline in units sold (which decreased 9.8%), partially offset by higher average selling prices for mobile product applications (which increased 3.5%). Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 27.4%, or $114.4 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared with 32.0%, or $123.4 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2016. The 460 basis point decline in gross margin was primarily due to $15.7 million of inventory fair value adjustments associated with the Conexant Acquisition and the Marvell Business Acquisition as well as a $3.8 million increase in acquired intangibles amortization that were charged to cost of revenue during the quarter. We continually introduce new product solutions, many of which have life cycles of less than one year. Further, because we sell our technology solutions in designs that are generally unique or specific to an OEM customers application, gross margin varies on a product-by-product basis, making our cumulative gross margin a blend of our product specific designs. As a virtual manufacturer, our gross margin percentage is generally not materially impacted by our shipment volume. We charge losses on inventory purchase obligations and write-downs to reduce the carrying value of obsolete, slow moving, and non-usable inventory to net realizable value (including warranty costs) to cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses increased $13.7 million to $87.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared with the three months ended September 30, 2016. The increase in research and development expenses primarily reflected a $9.9 million increase in personnel-related costs, which included additional headcount due to our recent acquisitions and the reflection of one additional week in the current year quarter compared to the prior year quarter; a $1.9 million increase in infrastructure related costs; a $0.7 million increase in travel related expenses; a $0.6 million increase in supplies and project related costs; and a $0.5 million increase in non-employee services. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $5.7 million to $40.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared with the three months ended September 30, 2016. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses primarily reflected an increase in personnel-related costs, which included additional headcount due to our recent acquisitions and the reflection of one additional week in the current year quarter compared to the prior year quarter. Acquired intangibles amortization. Acquired intangibles amortization reflects the amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. For further discussion of acquired intangibles amortization, see Note 7 included in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Restructuring costs. Restructuring credits of $0.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 reflect a reduction in facilities consolidation costs as restructuring activities came to a completion. Restructuring costs of $5.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016, reflect severance costs related to restructuring of the operations to reduce operating costs which commenced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. Interest and other income/(expense), net . Interest and other income/(expense), net primarily includes the amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, as well as interest on the debt. See Liquidity and Capital Resources included elsewhere in this Report. 25 Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. We consider the operating earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. Therefore, no provision has been made for the federal, state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The provision for income taxes recorded in interim periods is recorded by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to year-to-date income before provision for income taxes, excluding the effects of significant unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items. The tax effects of discrete items are recorded in the same period that the related discrete items are reported and results in a difference between the actual effective tax rate and the estimated annual effective tax rate. The provision for income taxes of $3.2 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, represented estimated federal, foreign, and state income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2017 diverged from the combined U.S. federal and state statutory tax rate primarily because of foreign withholding taxes, nondeductible amortization, the impact of accounting for qualified stock options, and foreign income taxed at higher tax rates, partially offset by the tax benefit of research credits. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016, diverged from the combined U.S. federal and state statutory tax rate, primarily because of foreign income taxed at lower tax rates and research credits, partially offset by foreign withholding taxes, nondeductible amortization, and the impact of accounting for qualified stock options. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents were $199.7 million as of September 30, 2017, compared with $367.8 million as of June 30, 2017, a decrease of $168.1 million. The decrease primarily reflected the combination of $396.8 million used for the acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired; $220.0 million for payment of debt; $93.6 million used to repurchase 1,698,400 shares of our common stock; and $11.4 million used for the purchase of property and equipment; partially offset by $514.5 million in net proceeds from issuance of convertible notes and $39.8 million of net cash provided by operating activities. We consider earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested overseas and have made no provision for income or withholding taxes that may result from a future repatriation of those earnings. As of September 30, 2017, $154.6 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. federal, state, and foreign taxes to repatriate these funds. Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2017 generated $39.8 million compared with $0.0 net cash generated during the three months ended September 30, 2016. For the three months ended September 30, 2017, the primary operating activities were adjustments for non-cash charges of $46.2 million, a $20.1 million net change in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by net loss of $26.5 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a $31.8 million decrease in inventory; a $22.0 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets; a $13.2 million decrease in accounts receivable, net; partially offset by a $28.8 million increase in accounts payable; a $13.5 million increase in accrued compensation; and a $5.0 million increase in other accrued liabilities. From June 30, 2017 to September 30, 2017, our days sales outstanding increased slightly from 54 days to 55 days. Our annual inventory turns decreased from nine to six due to the additional inventory acquired in recent acquisitions, including the fair value adjustment recorded as part of the purchase accounting for such acquisitions. For the three months ended September 30, 2016, the primary operating activities were net income of $3.7 million, plus adjustments for non-cash charges of $34.2 million, offset by a $37.9 million net change in operating assets and liabilities. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a $19.3 million decrease in accounts payable, a $12.8 million decrease in acquisition-related obligations, a $9.3 million decrease in accrued compensation, and a $6.5 million increase in inventory, partially offset by a $13.1 million decrease in accounts receivable, net. From June 30, 2016 to September 30, 2016, our days sales outstanding decreased from 70 days to 56 days, due to a much smaller percentage of the quarters net revenue occurring late in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 compared with a much larger percentage of the quarters net revenue occurring late in the quarter ended June 30, 2016, and our annual inventory turns increased from six to seven. Cash Flows from Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2017 consisted of $396.8 million for the acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and $11.4 million for purchases of property. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 consisted of $14.3 million for the investment in a direct financing lease and $5.7 million for purchase of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $200.4 million compared with $31.3 million used in financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily related to $514.5 million in proceeds from issuance of convertible debt, net of issuance costs, partially offset by $220.0 million used for payment of debt, and $93.6 million 26 used to repurchase 1, 698,400 shares of our common stock. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily related to $25.0 million used to repurchase 508,063 shares of our common stock and $7.5 million for the payment of debt. Common Stock Repurchase Program. As of September 30, 2017, our board has cumulatively authorized $1.3 billion for our common stock repurchase program, which will expire in July 2019. The program authorizes us to purchase our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. The number of shares purchased and the timing of purchases is based on the level of our cash balances, general business and market conditions, and other factors. Common stock purchased under this program is held as treasury stock. From April 2005 through September 30, 2017, we purchased 27,639,876 shares of our common stock in the open market for an aggregate cost of $1.1 billion. Treasury shares purchased prior to August 28, 2008 were not subject to the stock split on that date. During the three months ended September 30, 2017, we repurchased 1,698,400 shares of our common stock for a total cost of $93.6 million. As of September 30, 2017, the remaining available authorization under our common stock repurchase program is $226.1 million. Convertible Debt On June 20, 2017, we entered into a purchase agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, with Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representative of the initial purchasers named therein, or collectively, the Initial Purchasers, pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell, and the Initial Purchasers agreed to purchase, $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.50% convertible senior notes due 2022, or the Notes, in a private placement transaction. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we also granted the Initial Purchasers a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $25 million aggregate principal amount of Notes, which was exercised in full on June 21, 2017. The net proceeds, after deducting the Initial Purchasers discounts, were $514.5 million, which includes proceeds from the Initial Purchasers exercise of their option to purchase additional Notes. We received the net proceeds on June 26, 2016, which we used to repurchase shares of our common stock, to retire our outstanding bank debt, and to provide additional cash resources to fund two acquisitions. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 0.50% per year. Interest will accrue from June 26, 2017 and will be payable semi-annually in arrears, on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on December 15, 2017. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; equal in right of payment to any our liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries. The Notes mature on June 15, 2022, or the Maturity Date, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. Holders may convert all or any portion of their Notes, in multiples of $1,000 principal amounts, at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding March 15, 2022 under certain defined circumstances. On or after March 15, 2022 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, holders may convert all or any portion of their Notes, in multiples of $1,000 principal amounts, at the option of the holder. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, at our election, shares of common stock, cash, or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. The conversion rate for the Notes is initially 13.6947 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $73.02 per share of common stock). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Notes Indenture), holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. We may not redeem the Notes prior to June 20, 2020. We may redeem for cash all or any portion of the Notes, at our option, on or after June 20, 2020, if the last reported sale price of our common stock, as determined by us, has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during any 30 consecutive trading day period (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and including, the trading day immediately preceding the date on which we provide notice of redemption at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the redemption date. Our policy is to settle the principal amount of our Notes with cash upon conversion or redemption. 27 Bank Credit Facility. At the end of fiscal 2017, we had $220.0 million principal outstanding under our credit agreement consisting of $100.0 million under our revolving credi t facility and $120.0 million under our term loan arrangement. At the beginning of fiscal 2018, we issued $525.0 million principal amount of convertible notes and utilized a portion of the proceeds from our Notes to retire the outstanding principal and in terest balances on our revolving credit facility and our term loan arrangement. At the end of July 2017, we made an election to reduce the commitment under the revolving credit facility from $450 .0 million to $250.0 million as we were able to complete the Conexant Acquisition with available cash. In September 2017, we entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement, or the Agreement, with the lenders that are party thereto, or the Lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the Lenders. The Agreement terminated our term loan arrangement and provides for a revolving credit facility in a principal amount of up to $200 million, which includes a $20 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $20 million sublimit for swingline loans. Under the terms of the Agreement, we may, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, request increases in the revolving credit facility commitments in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100 million to the extent existing or new lenders agree to provide such increased or additional commitments, as applicable. Proceeds under the revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes. There is no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. As a result of terminating our term loan arrangement, we expensed the remaining debt issuance costs attributable to the term loan of $1.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The revolving credit facility is required to be repaid in full on the earlier of (i) September 27, 2022 and (ii) the date 91 days prior to the Maturity Date of the Notes if the Notes have not been refinanced in full by such date. Debt issuance costs of $2.3 million will be amortized over 60 months. Our obligations under the Agreement are guaranteed by the material domestic subsidiaries of our company, subject to certain exceptions (such material subsidiaries, together with our company, collectively, the Credit Parties). The obligations of the Credit Parties under the Agreement and the other loan documents delivered in connection therewith are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future personal property of the Credit Parties, including, without limitation, 65% of the voting capital stock of certain of the Credit Parties direct foreign subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The revolving credit facility bears interest at our election of a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin or LIBOR plus an Applicable Margin. Swingline loans bear interest at a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin. The Base Rate is a floating rate that is the greater of the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate plus 50 basis points, or LIBOR plus 100 basis points. The Applicable Margin is based on a sliding scale which ranges from 0.25 to 100 basis points for Base Rate loans and 100 basis points to 175 basis points for LIBOR loans. We are required to pay a commitment fee on any unused commitments under the Agreement which is determined on a leverage-based sliding scale ranging from 0.175% to 0.25% per annum. Interest and fees are payable on a quarterly basis. As of September 30, 2017, there is no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Under the Agreement, there are various restrictive covenants, including three financial covenants which limit the consolidated total leverage ratio, or leverage ratio, the consolidated interest coverage ratio, or interest coverage ratio, a restriction which places a limit on the amount of capital expenditures that may be made in any fiscal year, a restriction that permits up to $50 million per fiscal quarter of accounts receivable financings, and sets the Specified Leverage Ratio. The leverage ratio is the ratio of debt as of the measurement date to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, for the four consecutive quarters ending with the quarter of measurement. The current leverage ratio shall not exceed 3.50 to 1.00 provided that for the four fiscal quarters ending after the date of a material acquisition, such maximum leverage ratio shall be adjusted to 3.75 to 1.00, and thereafter, shall not be more than 3.50 to 1.00. The interest coverage ratio is EBITDA to interest expense for the four consecutive quarters ending with the quarter of measurement. The interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.50 to 1.0 during the term of the Agreement. The Specified Leverage Ratio is the ratio used in determining, among other things, whether we are permitted to make dividends and/or prepay certain indebtedness, at a fixed ratio of 3.00 to 1.00. $100 Million Shelf Registration. We have registered an aggregate of $100.0 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares will generally be freely tradeable after their issuance under Rule 145 of the Securities Act unless held by an affiliate of the acquired company, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Liquidity and Capital Resources. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from operating activities, and available credit under the Agreement will be sufficient to meet our working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months, our contingent consideration obligations associated with the acquisition of Validity, and our debt service obligations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, costs associated with restructuring activities net of projected savings from those activities, costs related to protecting our intellectual property, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing, the costs of maintaining sufficient space 28 for our workforce, the continuing market acceptance of our product solutions, our comm on stock repurchase program, and the amount and timing of our investments in, or acquisitions of, other technologies or companies. Further equity or debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient funds are not avail able or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures could be limited or severely constrained. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the need to remit undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, but if we did remit such earnings we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 30, 2017 were as follows (in millions): Remaining in Fiscal Year 2018 Fiscal Year 2019 Fiscal Year 2020 Fiscal Year 2021 Fiscal Year 2022 Fiscal Year 2023 Thereafter Total Long-term debt (1) $ 2.5 $ 2.6 $ 2.6 $ 2.6 $ 527.6 $ - $ - $ 537.9 Leases 7.4 4.8 2.2 0.5 0.1 - 15.0 Purchase obligations and other commitments (2) 58.0 8.9 0.6 - - - - 67.5 Other obligations (3) 8.7 - - - - - - 8.7 Total $ 76.6 $ 16.3 $ 5.4 $ 3.1 $ 527.7 $ - $ - $ 629.1 (1) Represents the principal and interest payable through the maturity date of the underlying contractual obligation. (2) Purchase obligations and other commitments include payments due for inventory purchase obligations with contract manufacturers, long-term software tool licenses, and other licenses. (3) Represents payments retained in connection with the earnout consideration related to the Validity acquisition. In connection with the Validity acquisition in November 2013, we entered into a contingent consideration arrangement. The earnout period for this arrangement was complete as of March 31, 2016. As of September 30, 2017, $8.7 million of the final earnout consideration liability is outstanding; this balance represents amounts we have not paid and have retained, subject to resolution of matters relating to the Amkor Technology legal dispute (see Legal Proceedings under Note 9 included in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report). The amounts in the table above exclude unrecognized tax benefits of $15.8 million. As of September 30, 2017, we were unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority may occur in connection with our gross unrecognized tax benefit. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standard update, or ASU, on Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The ASU will supersede most of the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when the new standard becomes effective, and requires entities to recognize revenue when they transfer promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU is effective for us in our fiscal year 2019, with early adoption permitted in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We did not early adopt the new standard. The new standard permits the use of either the full retrospective or cumulative effect transition method and we currently anticipate adopting the standard using the cumulative effect transition method. Based on our initial assessment of the ASU and our related customer contracts and current revenue recognition methodologies and processes, the new revenue standard is not expected to have a material impact on the amount and timing of revenue recognized in our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU on Leases. This update requires organizations that lease assets with lease terms of more than 12 months to recognize assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases on their balance sheets. It also requires new qualitative and quantitative disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The new standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the effects of adoption of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements. 29 ITE M 3.