Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2022, and other risks as identified from time to time in our SEC reports. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not have, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly release any updates or any changes in our expectations, or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that have not been completed as of the date of this filing. Statements made in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, include the use of the terms us, we, our, the Company and Synaptics to refer to Synaptics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Impact of COVID-19 Although many of the restrictions and other containment measures implemented by governmental authorities in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have since been lifted or scaled back, ongoing surges of COVID-19 and its variants have resulted in a variety of responses in the many geographic locations in which we do business, from no actions taken to the re-imposition of lockdowns and containment measures designed to mitigate or reduce the rapid spread of COVID-19 and its variants. The health and wellbeing of our workforce is our highest priority, and a large number of our workforce has been vaccinated. Many of our employees that worked from home at the onset of COVID-19, or during subsequent lockdowns, have returned full-time or on a hybrid basis to our office environment. For those employees that have returned to the office, we continue to adhere to return to work protocols, based on guidance from local and global health organizations and applicable laws and regulations. To date, we have not incurred significant disruptions to our business or a materially negative impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition from the COVID-19 outbreak and continue to believe our business will not be severely impacted as steps continue to be taken globally to mitigate the spread and vaccinate large portions of the population. However, if more infectious COVID-19 variants become resistant to the existing vaccines, we, our customers, and our suppliers could experience renewed and sustained business disruption. We will continue to evaluate the impact to our business, consolidated results of operations, and financial condition and may take actions that we deem necessary or appropriate to respond to the ongoing pandemic. Overview We are a leading worldwide developer and fabless supplier of premium mixed signal semiconductor solutions changing the way humans engage with connected devices and data, engineering exceptional experiences throughout the home, at work, in the car and on the go. We believe our results to date reflect the combination of our customer focus and the strength of our intellectual property and our engineering know-how, which allow us to develop or engineer products that meet the demanding design specifications of our Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs. We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. All of our revenue, except an inconsequential amount, is recognized at a point in time, either on shipment or delivery of the product, depending on customer terms and conditions. Many of our customers have manufacturing operations in China, and many of our OEM customers have established design centers in Asia. With our expanding global presence, including offices in China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, 25 Korea, Poland, Switzerland, Taiwan, the U.K., and the U.S., we are well positioned to provide local sales, operational, and engineering support services to our existing customers, as well as potential new customers, on a global basis. Our manufacturing operations are based on a variable cost model in which we outsource all of our production requirements and generally drop ship our products directly to our customers from our contract manufacturers facilities, eliminating the need for significant capital expenditures and allowing us to minimize our investment in inventories. This approach requires us to work closely with our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators to ensure adequate production capacity to meet our forecasted volume requirements. As a result of recent supply constraints and capacity shortages affecting the global semiconductor industry, we have entered into long-term capacity and pricing agreements with some suppliers. We use third-party wafer manufacturers to supply wafers and third-party packaging manufacturers to package our proprietary ASICs. In certain cases, we rely on a single source or a limited number of suppliers to provide other key components of our products. Our cost of revenue includes all costs associated with the production of our products, including materials; logistics; amortization of intangibles related to acquired developed technology; backlog; supplier arrangements; manufacturing, assembly, royalties paid to third-party intellectual property providers and test costs paid to third-party manufacturers; and related overhead costs associated with our indirect manufacturing operations personnel. Additionally, we charge all warranty costs, losses on inventory purchase obligations, and write-downs to reduce the carrying value of obsolete, slow moving, and non-usable inventory to net realizable value, to cost of revenue. Our gross margin generally reflects the combination of the added value we bring to our OEM customers products by meeting their custom design requirements and the impact of our ongoing cost-improvement programs. These cost-improvement programs include reducing materials and component costs and implementing design and process improvements. Our newly introduced products may have lower margins than our more mature products, which have realized greater benefits associated with our ongoing cost-improvement programs. As a result, new product introductions may initially negatively impact our gross margin. Our research and development expenses include costs for supplies and materials related to product development, as well as the engineering costs incurred to design ASICs and human experience solutions for OEM customers prior to and after our OEMs commitment to incorporate those solutions into their products. In addition, we expense in-process research and development projects acquired as part of a business acquisition, which have not yet reached technological feasibility, and which have no foreseeable alternative future use. We continue to commit to the technological and design innovation required to maintain our position in our existing markets, and to adapt our existing technologies or develop new technologies for new markets. Selling, general, and administrative expenses include expenses related to sales, marketing, and administrative personnel; internal sales and outside sales representatives commissions; market and usability research; outside legal, accounting, and consulting costs; and other marketing and sales activities. Acquired intangibles amortization, included in operating expenses, consists primarily of amortization of customer relationship and tradenames intangible assets recognized under the purchase method for business combinations. Restructuring costs primarily reflect severance costs related to the restructuring of our operations to reduce operating expenses and gain efficiencies from our recent acquisitions. These headcount related costs were in cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. See Note 16 Restructuring Activities to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Interest and other expense, net, primarily reflects interest expense on our Senior Notes (as defined herein), Term Loan Facility (as defined herein) and revolving line of credit as well as the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on our debt, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Acquisitions DSP Group, Inc. In fiscal 2022, we acquired all of the equity of DSP Group, Inc, or DSPG, for $22.00 per share of common stock, a total purchase consideration of $543.3 million. We financed the transaction through a combination of cash on hand and Term Loan Facility under our existing senior credit facility. The results of DSPG are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods from December 3, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 2022, compared with our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2022. 26 Trends and Uncertainties Current Economic Conditions As many central banks continue to raise interest rates to combat inflation, the potential for global recession also rises. This threat of global recession appears to be driving increased caution in our customer base. During the quarter, we began to experience reduced customer demand combined with customer requests to delay orders. We are cautiously optimistic, and we believe that the demand slowdown is temporary, but if we do slip into a global recession, the rebound in demand may take longer than we currently anticipate. Further, the increase in interest rates will push up our borrowing costs on our variable rate Term Loan Facility, driving an increase in interest costs in future accounting periods and potentially limiting our borrowing capacity if a future acquisition opportunity requiring financing presents itself. Results of Operations Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated, together with comparative absolute and percentage changes in these amounts, were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 2022 2021 $ Change % Change IoT product applications $ 342.7 $ 205.7 $ 137.0 66.6 % PC product applications 65.2 88.6 (23.4 ) (26.4 %) Mobile product applications 40.2 78.4 (38.2 ) (48.7 %) Net revenue 448.1 372.7 75.4 20.2 % Gross margin 255.7 198.1 57.6 29.1 % Operating expenses: Research and development 89.5 86.1 3.4 3.9 % Selling, general, and administrative 44.7 41.6 3.1 7.5 % Acquired intangibles amortization 9.5 8.4 1.1 13.1 % Restructuring costs 1.4 (1.4 ) (100.0 %) Operating income 112.0 60.6 51.4 84.8 % Interest and other expense, net (8.3 ) (5.9 ) (2.4 ) (40.7 %) Loss on redemption of convertible notes (8.1 ) 8.1 100.0 % Income before provision for income taxes 103.7 46.6 57.1 122.5 % Provision for income taxes 39.1 5.9 33.2 562.7 % Equity investment loss 0.5 (0.5 ) (100.0 %) Net income $ 64.6 $ 40.2 $ 24.4 60.7 % Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of income presented here as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Percentage Point September Increase/ 2022 2021 (Decrease) IoT product applications 76.5 % 55.2 % 21.3 % PC product applications 14.5 % 23.8 % (9.3 %) Mobile product applications 9.0 % 21.0 % (12.0 %) Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 0.0 % Gross margin 57.1 % 53.2 % 3.9 % Operating expenses: Research and development 20.0 % 23.1 % (3.1 %) Selling, general, and administrative 10.0 % 11.2 % (1.2 %) Acquired intangibles amortization 2.1 % 2.3 % (0.2 %) Restructuring costs 0.0 % 0.4 % (0.4 %) Operating income 25.0 % 16.3 % 8.7 % Interest and other expense, net (1.9 %) (1.6 %) (0.3 %) Loss on redemption of convertible notes 0.0 % (2.2 %) 2.2 % Income before provision for income taxes 23.1 % 12.5 % 10.6 % Provision for income taxes 8.7 % 1.6 % 7.1 % Equity investment loss 0.0 % 0.1 % (0.1 %) Net income 14.4 % 10.8 % 3.6 % 27 Net Revenue Net revenue was $448.1 million for the three months ended September 2022, compared with $372.7 million for the three months ended September 2021, an increase of $75.4 million, or 20.2%. Of this net revenue, $342.7 million, or 76.5%, was from IoT product applications, $65.2 million, or 14.5%, was from PC product applications, and $40.2 million, or 9.0%, was from Mobile product applications. The increase in net revenue for the three months ended September 2022 was primarily attributable to an increase in net revenue from IoT, offset by a decrease in net revenue from PC and mobile product applications. Net revenue from IoT product applications increased as a result of an increase in units sold (which increased 59.2%) as well as higher average selling prices (which increased 4.5%) due to product sales mix. Net revenue from PC product applications decreased due to a decline in units sold related to certain end customers' decline in demand and desire to decrease their inventory holdings (which decreased 39.6%) and partially offset by higher average selling prices (which increased 21.7%) due to our product sales mix. Net revenue from Mobile product applications decreased due to a decline in units sold (which decreased 64.9%) as demand broadly softened for our products in the mobile market, partially offset by higher average selling prices (which increased 46.3%). Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 57.1%, or $255.7 million, for the three months ended September 2022, compared with 53.2%, or $198.1 million, for the three months ended September 2021. The 390-basis point increase in gross margin for the three months ended September 2022, was due to an overall favorable product mix and an increase in average sales prices partially offset by a $6.6 million increase in acquired intangibles amortization included in cost of revenue. Because we sell our technology solutions in designs that are generally unique or specific to an OEM customers application, gross margin varies on a product-by-product basis, making our cumulative gross margin a blend of our product specific designs. As a fabless manufacturer, our gross margin percentage is generally not materially impacted by our shipment volume. We charge losses on inventory purchase obligations and write-downs to reduce the carrying value of obsolete, slow moving, and non-usable inventory to net realizable value (including warranty costs) to cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses increased $3.4 million to $89.5 million for the three months ended September 2022, compared with $86.1 million for the three months ended September 2021. The increase in research and development expenses were primarily driven by an increase in payroll and other employee related costs of $7.2 million, which includes costs associated with research and development headcount from our DSPG acquisition, which closed December 2, 2021, a $1.6 million increase in new product development activities, partially offset by a $6.9 million decrease in share-based compensation costs primarily related to a decrease in our stock price reducing the accrued expense associated with cash settled phantom stock awards during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the same period a year ago. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $3.1 million to $44.7 million for the three months ended September 2022, compared with $41.6 million for the three months ended September 2021. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses primarily reflected a $3.7 million increase in share-based compensation costs primarily related to an increase in granted stock awards and grant date valuation partially offset by a decrease in our stock price during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the same period a year ago which impacted the expense associated with our phantom stock units and related accrual and an increase in payroll and variable compensation costs of $0.7 million. Acquired Intangibles Amortization . Acquired intangibles amortization reflects the amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. For further discussion of acquired intangibles amortization, see Note 7 Acquired Intangibles and Goodwill to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Interest and Other Expense, Net . Interest and other expense, net, primarily includes interest on our debt, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest and other expense, net increased by $2.4 million to $8.3 million for the three months ended September 2022, as compared to $5.9 million for the three months ended September 2021. The increase in interest and other expense, net, is primarily due to interest and amortization of debt issuance costs on the $400.0 million principal amount of Senior Notes issued in March 2021 and the $600 million incremental term loan facility executed in December 2021, partially offset by lower interest and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on the convertible notes which were fully redeemed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Provision for Income Taxes . We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. The provision for income taxes recorded in interim periods is based on our estimate of the annual effective tax rate applied to year-to-date income before provision for income taxes, adjusted for discrete items required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. In each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in that quarter. Our quarterly tax provision and our quarterly estimate of the annual effective tax rate can be subject to volatility due to 28 several factors, including our ability to accurately forecast annual income before provision for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision for income taxes of $39.1 million and $5.9 million for the three months ended September 2022 and September 2021, respectively, represented estimated federal, foreign, and state income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 2022, diverged from the combined U.S. federal and state statutory tax rate primarily due to the impact of tax law changes becoming effective in our fiscal 2023, including non-creditable foreign withholding taxes resulting from the final foreign tax credit regulations published in January 2022 and the research and development capitalization rules increasing our global intangible low-taxed income, or GILTI, resulting from the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, and non-deductible officer compensation, partially offset by the benefit of foreign income taxed at lower rates, and research credits. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 2021, diverged from the combined U.S. federal and state statutory tax rate, primarily due to foreign income taxed at lower rates, the benefit of research credits and foreign tax credits, partially offset by foreign withholding taxes, non-deductible officer compensation, non-deductible stock-based compensation, and GILTI. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents were $867.8 million as of September 2022, compared with $824.0 million as of June 2022, representing an increase of $43.8 million. The increase primarily reflected $31.4 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for Restricted Stock Units, or RSUs, Market Stock Units, or MSUs and Performance Stock Units, or PSUs, $6.2 million for the purchase of property and equipment, $13.4 million for repurchases of our common stock, offset by proceeds from maturities of our short-term investments of $7.7 and $78.5 million of net cash provided by operating activities. We consider almost all of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as not indefinitely invested overseas and have made appropriate provisions for income or withholding taxes that may result from a future repatriation of those earnings. As of September 2022, $741.9 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the United States, we would be able to repatriate these funds without impacting our tax provision. Cash Flows from Operating Activities . Operating activities during the three months ended September 2022 generated $78.5 million compared with $58.3 million net cash generated during the three months ended September 2021. For the three months ended September 2022, the primary operating activities were adjustments for non-cash charges of $80.7 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $66.8 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a $9.7 million increase in inventories, offset by a $37.7 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $17.6 million decrease in accounts payable, a $38.2 million decrease in accrued compensation and a decrease of $38.9 million in income taxes payable and other accrued liabilities. During the three months ended September 2022, our days sales outstanding was 57 days compared to 65 days at the same period a year ago. Our annual inventory turns decreased from seven to four over the same time period. Cash Flows from Investing Activities . Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended September 2022 was $2.3 million compared with $4.7 million cash used by investing activities during the three months ended September 2021. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended September 2022 consisted of $7.7 million proceeds from the maturities of investments, partially offset by $6.2 million for purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities . Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended September 2022 was $35.0 million compared with $542.1 million used by financing activities for the three months ended September 2021. Net cash used by financing activities for the three months ended September 2022 consisted of $8.5 million proceeds from issuance of shares, offset by $31.4 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for RSUs, MSUs and PSUs, and $13.4 million used to repurchase our common stock. Common Stock Repurchase Program . As of September 2022, our board has cumulatively authorized $1.8 billion for our common stock repurchase program, which will expire in July 2025. The program authorizes us to purchase our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. The number of shares purchased, and the timing of purchases, are based on the level of our cash balances, general business and market conditions, and other factors. Common stock purchased under this program is held as treasury stock. From April 2005 through September 2022, we purchased 28,244,252 shares of our common stock in the open market for an aggregate cost of $707.9 million. During three months ended September 2022, we repurchased 119,631 shares of our common stock. As of September 2022, the remaining available authorization under our common stock repurchase program was $564.0 million. Senior Notes On March 11, 2021, we completed an offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% senior notes due 2029, or the Senior Notes, in a private offering. The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 11, 2021, or the Indenture, by and among our company, the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. 29 The Indenture provides that the Senior Notes will bear interest at a rate of 4.000% per annum, payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on December 15 and June 15 of each year, commencing on June 15, 2021. The Senior Notes will mature on June 15, 2029 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by each of our current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities. Prior to June 15, 2024, we may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus a make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date. We may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes on or after June 15, 2024 at the redemption prices specified below, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date: Year Price 2024 102 % 2025 101 % 2026 and thereafter 100 % In addition, at any time prior to June 15, 2024, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 104% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date with the net cash proceeds from one or more equity offerings by us. The Senior Notes are the general unsecured obligations of our company. The Senior Note guarantees are the senior unsecured obligations of each guarantor. Under certain circumstances, the guarantors may be released from their Senior Note guarantees without consent of the holders of Senior Notes. Under the terms of the Indenture, the Senior Notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors existing and future senior indebtedness, and rank contractually senior in right of payment to our and the guarantors future indebtedness and other obligations that are, by their terms, expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors existing and future secured indebtedness, including secured indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Senior Notes and guarantees are structurally subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes. The Indenture contains covenants that, subject to exceptions and qualifications, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Indenture) to (i) incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; (ii) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our companys or any parents capital stock; (iii) prepay, redeem or repurchase certain indebtedness; (iv) issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; (v) make loans and investments; (vi) dispose of assets; (vii) incur liens; (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates; (ix) enter into agreements restricting its subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and (x) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. The Indenture contains customary events of default including, without limitation, failure to make required payments, failure to comply with certain agreements or covenants, cross-acceleration to certain other indebtedness in excess of specified amounts, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and failure to pay certain judgments. An event of default under the Indenture will allow either the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes to accelerate, or in certain cases, will automatically cause the acceleration of, the maturity of the principal, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Senior Notes. Bank Credit Facility On March 11, 2021, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, or the Credit Agreement, with the lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent to, among other changes, extend the maturity date of our senior secured revolving credit facility, to five years from the closing date of the amendment, increase the facility size from $200.0 million to $250.0 million, and replace the requirement to maintain a total debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of not more than 4.75 to 1.00 with a requirement to maintain a net total debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.75 to 1.00 provided that for the four fiscal quarters ending after the date of a material acquisition, such maximum leverage ratio shall be adjusted to 4.25 to 1.00, and thereafter 3.75 to 1.00, provided further, that such deemed increase pursuant to the foregoing shall not apply to more than two material acquisitions consummated during the term of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility in a principal amount of up to $250 million, which includes a $20 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $25 million sublimit for swingline loans. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we may, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, request increases in the revolving credit facility commitments in an aggregate principal amount of up to $150 million to the extent existing or new lenders agree to provide such increased or additional commitments, as applicable. Future proceeds under the revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes. In March 2021 we used a portion of the proceeds from the Senior Notes described above to repay the $100.0 million outstanding 30 borrowings on this revolving credit facility. As of September 2022, there was no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are required to be repaid in full by March 11, 2026. Debt issuance costs relating to the revolving credit facility of $1.6 million, included in non-current other assets on our consolidated balance sheet, are being amortized over 60 months. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the material domestic subsidiaries of our company, subject to certain exceptions, who collectively with our company are referred to as the Credit Parties. The obligations of the Credit Parties under the Credit Agreement and the other loan documents delivered in connection therewith are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future personal property of the Credit Parties, including, without limitation, 65% of the voting capital stock and 100% of the non-voting capital stock of certain of the Credit Parties direct foreign subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The revolving credit facility bears interest at our election of a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin or LIBOR plus an Applicable Margin. Swingline loans bear interest at a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin. The Base Rate is a floating rate that is the greater of the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate plus 50 basis points, or LIBOR plus 100 basis points. The Applicable Margin is based on a sliding scale that ranges from 0.25 to 100 basis points for Base Rate loans and 100 basis points to 175 basis points for LIBOR loans. We are required to pay a commitment fee on any unused commitments under the Credit Agreement which is determined on a leverage-based sliding scale ranging from 0.175% to 0.25% per annum. Interest and fees are payable on a quarterly basis. The LIBOR index is expected to be discontinued at the end of 2021. Under our credit facility, when the LIBOR index is discontinued, we will switch to a comparable or successor rate as selected by us and the administrative agent, which may include the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR. Under the Credit Agreement, there are various restrictive covenants, including two financial covenants that limit the consolidated total leverage ratio, or leverage ratio, the consolidated interest coverage ratio, or interest coverage ratio, a restriction that permits accounts receivable financings provided that the aggregate unpaid amount of permitted accounts receivable financings are no more than the greater of $100 million and 50% of the amount of all accounts receivable of the company and specified subsidiaries, and other specific items. The leverage ratio is the ratio of debt as of the measurement date to Consolidated EBITDA, for the four consecutive quarters ending with the quarter of measurement. The current leverage ratio shall not exceed 3.75 to 1.00 provided that for the four fiscal quarters ending after the date of a material acquisition, such maximum leverage ratio shall be adjusted to 4.25 to 1.00, and thereafter 3.75 to 1.0. The interest coverage ratio is Consolidated EBITDA to interest expense for the four consecutive quarters ending with the quarter of measurement. The interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.50 to 1.0 during the term of the Credit Agreement. As of September 2022, we remain in compliance with the restrictive covenants. Term Loan Facility In December 2021, we entered into that certain First Amendment and Lender Joinder Agreement to the Credit Agreement, to, among other things, establish a new $600.0 million incremental term loan facility, or the Term Loan Facility. The Term Loan Facility was advanced by certain existing and new lenders under the Credit Agreement to finance our DSPG acquisition. The Term Loan Facility matures on December 2, 2028. Principal on the Term Loan Facility is payable in equal quarterly installments on the last day of each March, June, September and December of each year, beginning December 31, 2021, at a rate of 1.00% per annum. Borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will accrue interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 2.25% or at the base rate plus 1.50%, subject to a 25 basis point step-down based on total gross leverage, and subject to a LIBOR floor of 50 basis points. The base rate is the highest of (i) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the Wells Fargo Bank, National Association prime rate and (iii) the one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%. The Term Loan Facility contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default, in each case consistent with the Credit Agreement. The Term Loan Facility does not contain any financial covenant. The Term Loan Facility is subject to a 1.00% prepayment premium in the event all or any portion of the Term Loan Facility is prepaid within the first 6 months in connection with a repricing transaction only. The Term Loan Facility is subject to customary mandatory prepayments, including, commencing June 30, 2023, an excess cash flow sweep, subject to customary step-downs and thresholds. $100 Million Shelf Registration . We have registered an aggregate of $100.0 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares will generally be freely tradeable after their issuance under the Securities Act unless held by an affiliate of us, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Working Capital Needs . We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from operating activities, anticipated cash flows from financing activities, and available credit under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, including acquisitions, and our debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue, the effectiveness of vaccines on variants of 31 COVID-19, including the deployment of those vaccines to help reduce the length, duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, costs associated with restructuring activities net of projected savings from those activities, costs related to protecting our intellectual property, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, timing of introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products, costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing, costs of maintaining sufficient space for our workforce, the continuing market acceptance of our product solutions, our common stock repurchase program, and the amount and timing of our investments in, or acquisitions of, other technologies or companies. Further equity or debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our future long-term working capital needs, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures could be limited or severely constrained. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not currently anticipate the need to remit undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, but if we did remit such earnings, we may be required to pay certain state and foreign taxes to repatriate these funds, which would impact our cash flows. 32 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 2022 were as follows (in millions): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter Long-term debt (1) $ 1,261.3 $ 31.9 $ 95.0 $ 94.0 $ 1,040.4 Leases 68.2 3.9 19.3 16.9 28.1 Purchase obligations and other commitments (2) 227.5 93.5 115.0 19.0 Total $ 1,557.0 $ 129.3 $ 229.3 $ 129.9 $ 1,068.5 (1) Represents the principal and interest payable through the maturity date of the underlying contractual obligation. (2) Purchase obligations and other commitments include payments due for inventory purchase obligations with contract manufacturers, long-term software tool licenses, and other licenses. The amounts in the table above exclude gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions of $38.2 million. As of September 2022, we were unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority may occur in connection with our gross unrecognized tax benefit. 33 ITE M 3.