ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Results This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2024 (this Report) contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business, can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements may include words such as expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, target, strategy, continue, may, will, should, variations of such words, or other words and terms of similar meaning. All forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment and are based on several factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to the following: our dependence on our solutions for the Core IoT and Enterprise and Automotive product applications market for a substantial portion of our revenue; risks related to the volatility of our net revenue from our solutions for Core IoT and Enterprise and Automotive product applications; our dependence on one or more large customers; our exposure to industry downturns and cyclicality in our target markets; the risk that our product solutions for new markets will not be successful; risks related to our expectations regarding technology and strategic investments and the anticipated timing or benefits thereof; our ability to execute on our cost reduction initiatives and to achieve expected synergies and expense reductions; our ability to maintain and build relationships with our customers; our dependence on third parties to maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and deliverable schedule; the risk that our indemnification obligations for third party claims could result in substantial costs; uncertainty surrounding macroeconomic factors in the U.S., and globally, impacting the supply chain environment, inflationary pressure, workforce reductions, regional instabilities and hostilities (including the Israel-Hamas war) and the other risks as identified in the Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2024, and other risks as identified from time to time in our SEC reports. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not have, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly release any updates or any changes in our expectations, or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that have not been completed as of the date of this filing. Statements made in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, include the use of the terms us, we, our, the Company and Synaptics to refer to Synaptics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading worldwide developer and fabless supplier of premium mixed signal semiconductor solutions that enable people to engage with connected devices and data, engineering exceptional experiences throughout the home, at work, in the car and on the go. We provide our customers with sensing, processing, and connecting solutions, which represent the three foundational elements of the Internet of Things, or IoT. We supply connectivity, sensors, and artificial intelligence, or AI, enhanced processor solutions to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that design IoT products and devices for automobiles, enterprise workspace devices, virtual reality, smartphones, tablets, and notebook computers. Our currently served markets include IoT, personal computer, or PC, Enterprise and Automotive, and Mobile. Our solutions either contain or consist of our wireless, voice and speech, video processing, fingerprint, authentication, display driver, or touch semiconductor solutions, which include our hardware, and, where applicable, firmware and software. We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Nearly all of our revenue, except an inconsequential amount, is recognized at a point in time, either on shipment or delivery of the product, depending on customer terms and conditions. Revenue recognition from the licensing of our IP is dependent on the nature and terms of each agreement. We recognize revenue from the licensing of our IP upon delivery of the IP if there are no substantive future obligations to perform under the arrangement. Sales-based or usage-based royalties from the license of IP are recognized at the later of the period the sale or usage occurs, or the satisfaction of the performance obligation to which some or all of the sales-based or usage-based royalties have been allocated. Many of our customers have manufacturing operations in China, and many of our OEM customers have established design centers in Asia. With our global presence, including offices in China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, 24 Table of Contents India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Poland, Switzerland, Taiwan, the U.K., and the U.S., we are well positioned to provide local sales, operational, and engineering support services to our existing customers, as well as potential new customers, on a global basis. Our manufacturing operations are based on a variable cost model in which we outsource all of our production requirements and generally drop ship our products directly to our customers from our contract manufacturers facilities, eliminating the need for significant capital expenditures and allowing us to minimize our investment in inventories. This approach requires us to work closely with our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators to ensure adequate production capacity to meet our forecasted volume requirements. We use third-party wafer manufacturers to supply wafers and third-party packaging manufacturers to package our proprietary ASICs. In certain cases, we rely on a single source, or a limited number of suppliers, to provide other key components of our products. Our cost of revenue includes all costs associated with the production of our products, including materials; logistics; amortization of intangibles related to acquired developed technology; backlog; supplier arrangements; manufacturing, assembly, royalties paid to third-party intellectual property providers and test costs paid to third-party manufacturers; and related overhead costs associated with our indirect manufacturing operations personnel. Additionally, we charge all warranty costs, losses on inventory purchase obligations, and the provision for excess and obsolete inventories to cost of revenue. Our gross margin generally reflects the combination of the added value we bring to our OEM customers products by meeting their custom design requirements and the impact of our ongoing cost-improvement programs. These cost-improvement programs include reducing materials and component costs and implementing design and process improvements. Our research and development expenses include costs for supplies and materials related to product development, as well as the engineering costs incurred to design ASICs and human experience solutions for OEM customers prior to and after our OEMs commitment to incorporate those solutions into their products. In addition, we expense in-process research and development projects acquired as part of a business acquisition, which have not yet reached technological feasibility, and which have no foreseeable alternative future use. We continue to commit to the technological and design innovation required to maintain our position in our existing markets, and to adapt our existing technologies or develop new technologies for new markets. Selling, general, and administrative expenses include expenses related to sales, marketing, and administrative personnel; internal sales and outside sales representatives commissions; market and usability research; outside legal, accounting, and consulting costs; and other marketing and sales activities. Acquired intangibles amortization included in operating expenses consists primarily of amortization of customer relationship and tradename intangible assets recognized under the purchase method for business combinations. Restructuring costs primarily reflect severance costs related to the restructuring of our operations to reduce operating expenses and gain efficiencies from our recent acquisitions. See Note 16. Restructuring Activities to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Interest and other expense, net, primarily reflects interest expense on our Senior Notes (as defined herein), Term Loan Facility (as defined herein) and revolving line of credit as well as the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on our debt, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 2024, compared with our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2024. Trends and Uncertainties Current Economic Conditions As a majority of our sales and manufacturing occurs outside of the United States, we are exposed to and impacted by global macroeconomic factors, U.S. and foreign government policies and foreign exchange fluctuations. There is uncertainty surrounding macroeconomic factors in the U.S., and globally, characterized by the supply chain environment, inflationary pressure, higher interest rates, and workforce reductions. We believe these macroeconomic conditions, including conservative corporate spending on information technology hardware, coupled with the global political climate and unrest, including the ongoing Israel-Hamas war, continue to be the primary drivers for the overall slowdown in orders from our customer base. We continue to believe a rebound in demand is likely to extend into late calendar 2024. In addition, although we currently do not believe inflation in the costs of goods will have a material impact on our results of 25 Table of Contents operations, it is possible that elevated inflation could increase our cost of goods sold and/or operating expenses and reduce our gross profit and net income. Further, despite the recent downward trend in interest rates, they remain elevated and may fluctuate, continuing to impact our borrowing costs on our variable rate Term Loan Facility and could potentially limit our borrowing capacity if a future acquisition opportunity requiring financing presents itself. The Israel-Hamas War Although our employees in our Israel office have the ability to work remotely and business continuity plans are in place to address any medium- or long-term disruptions that could result from the closure of this office, the office closure and general effects of employees operating in a region at war could have a negative impact on our operations. Further, a number of our employees in Israel are members of the military reserves who have been subject to activation in response to the war, and it is possible that these employees may be re-activated if the Israel-Hamas war continues or expands further throughout the Middle East region. While we also have business continuity plans in place to address the safety of our employees and continue product development in the event of reduced employee availability in the region during the war, it could affect the timing of projects in the short-term as work is shifted to other team members where necessary. If these conditions continue or worsen, they could adversely impact our future financial and operating results. Results of Operations Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated, together with comparative absolute and percentage changes in these amounts, were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Enterprise and Automotive product applications $ 147.6 $ 154.8 $ (7.2) (4.7 %) Core IoT product applications 59.6 38.5 21.1 54.8 % Mobile product applications 50.5 44.4 6.1 13.7 % Net revenue 257.7 237.7 20.0 8.4 % Gross margin 120.9 107.1 13.8 12.9 % Operating expenses: Research and development 81.3 86.5 (5.2) (6.0 %) Selling, general, and administrative 50.0 42.3 7.7 18.2 % Acquired intangibles amortization 3.8 5.5 (1.7) (30.9 %) Restructuring costs 14.2 8.0 6.2 77.5 % Operating loss (28.4) (35.2) 6.8 (19.3 %) Interest and other expense, net (5.9) (5.4) (0.5) 9.3 % Loss before provision for income taxes (34.3) (40.6) 6.3 (15.5 %) (Benefit)/Provision for income taxes (11.2) 15.0 (26.2) (174.7 %) Net loss $ (23.1) $ (55.6) $ 32.5 (58.5 %) 26 Table of Contents Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of operations presented here as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Percent Point Increase/ (Decrease) September 2024 2023 Enterprise and Automotive product applications 57.3 % 65.1 % (7.8 %) Core IoT product applications 23.1 % 16.2 % 6.9 % Mobile product applications 19.6 % 18.7 % 0.9 % Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 0.0 % Gross margin 46.9 % 45.1 % 1.8 % Operating expenses: Research and development 31.5 % 36.4 % (4.9 %) Selling, general, and administrative 19.4 % 17.8 % 1.6 % Acquired intangibles amortization 1.5 % 2.3 % (0.8 %) Restructuring costs 5.5 % 3.4 % 2.1 % Operating loss (11.0 %) (14.8 %) 3.8 % Interest and other expense, net (2.3 %) (2.3 %) % Loss before provision for income taxes (13.3 %) (17.1 %) 3.8 % (Benefit)/Provision for income taxes (4.3 %) 6.3 % (10.6 %) Net loss (9.0 %) (23.4 %) 14.4 % Net Revenue Net revenue was $257.7 million for the three months ended September 2024, compared with $237.7 million for the three months ended September 2023, an increase of $20.0 million, or 8.4%. Of this net revenue, $147.6 million, or 57.3%, was from Enterprise and Automotive product applications, $50.5 million, or 19.6%, was from Mobile product applications, and $59.6 million, or 23.1%, was from Core IoT product applications. Revenue increased in most of our product applications for the three months ended September 2024. Net revenue from Mobile product applications increased due to an increase in units sold (which increased 1.5%) and $10.5 million in revenue from a license of certain of our IP, or the IP license, partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices (which decreased 11.3%), as overall demand increased for our products in the mobile market. Net revenue from Core IoT product applications increased due to an increase in units sold (which increased 90.2%), partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices (which decreased 18.6%) due to our product sales mix compared to the same period a year ago. Net revenue from Enterprise and Automotive product applications decreased as a result of a decrease in units sold (which decreased 1.5%), partially offset by an increase in average selling prices (which increased 17.3%) due to our product sales mix compared to the same period a year ago and a decrease of $27.0 million in revenue from a license of certain of our IP. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 46.9%, or $120.9 million, for the three months ended September 2024, compared with 45.1%, or $107.1 million, for the three months ended September 2023. The net 180 basis point increase in gross margin for the three months ended September 2024 was primarily due to favorable changes in product mix and lower costs related to excess obsolescence reserve charges and share-based compensation charges partially offset by a net decrease in revenue from our IP licenses. Because we sell our technology solutions in designs that are generally unique or specific to an OEM customers application, gross margin varies on a product-by-product basis, making our cumulative gross margin a blend of our product specific designs. As a fabless manufacturer, our gross margin percentage is generally not materially impacted by our shipment volume. Under most circumstances, revenue from license-based arrangements are accretive to our gross margin. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses decreased $5.2 million to $81.3 million for the three months ended September 2024, compared with $86.5 million for the three months ended September 2023. The decrease in research and development expenses was primarily driven by a $4.9 million decrease in wages and related costs as a result of the restructuring action initiated during the first quarter of fiscal 2025. 27 Table of Contents Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $7.7 million to $50.0 million for the three months ended September 2024, compared with $42.3 million for the three months ended September 2023. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses was primarily driven by a $3.8 million increase in professional fees related to certain corporate projects and a $3.2 million unfavorable impact from exchange rates on foreign currencies. Acquired Intangibles Amortization. Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles of $24.6 million for the three months ended September 2024 increased by $1.3 million, or 5.6%, compared to $23.3 million for the same period a year ago. The increase is primarily related to the amortization of certain intangible assets we received from Broadcom and placed into service during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. Restructuring Costs. Restructuring costs primarily reflect employee severance costs related to the restructuring of operations and to improve efficiencies in our operational activities. These headcount-related costs included personnel in operations, research and development, and selling, general and administrative functions. See Note 16. Restructuring Activities in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on restructuring costs. Non-Operating Income Interest and Other Income. Interest income of $10.2 million for the three months ended September 2024 decreased by $0.7 million compared to $10.9 for the same period a year ago and is due to the slight decrease in interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended September 2024 compared to the same period a year ago. Interest expense. Interest expense primarily includes interest on our debt and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. Interest expense decreased by $0.2 million to $16.1 million for three months ended September 2024 as compared to $16.3 million for the same period a year ago. The decrease in interest expense is primarily driven by a slight decrease in interest rates on our $600 million incremental Term Loan Facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the same period a year ago. (Benefit)/Provision for Income Taxes. We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. The (benefit)/provision for income taxes recorded in interim periods is based on our estimate of the annual effective tax rate applied to year-to-date (loss)/income before (benefit)/provision for income taxes, adjusted for discrete items required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. In each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in that quarter. Our quarterly tax (benefit)/provision for income taxes and our quarterly estimate of the annual effective tax rate can be subject to volatility due to several factors, including our ability to accurately forecast annual (loss)/income before (benefit)/provision for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) introduced Pillar Two Model Rules for a global minimum tax of 15% applicable to large multinational corporations. Many countries in which we have business operations, including the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and Japan, have implemented certain aspects of Pillar Two, which become effective to our company in fiscal 2025. The OECD and the implementing countries are expected to keep refining their laws and issue more guidance. Based on the current legislation, Pillar Two did not affect our effective tax rate or cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2025. We will continue to evaluate the potential impact of these tax law changes on future reporting periods. See Note 14. Income Taxes in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our (benefit)/provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents were $853.6 million and $876.9 million as of September 2024 and June 2024, respectively, representing a decrease of $23.3 million. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during three months ended September 2024 was due to cash used in operating activities of $11.4 million, cash used in investing activities of $9.1 million and cash used in financing activities of $3.5 million. We consider almost all of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as not indefinitely invested overseas and have made appropriate provisions for income or withholding taxes that may result from a future repatriation of those earnings. As of September 2024, $405.7 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the United States, we would be able to repatriate substantially all of these funds without a material impact on our provision for income taxes. Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Cash used by operating activities during the three months ended September 2024 was $11.4 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $45.4 million during same period a year ago. For the three months ended September 2024, the primary operating activities were adjustments for non-cash charges 28 Table of Contents of $47.5 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $35.8 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was attributable to a decrease in income taxes payable primarily related to tax payments of approximately $31.2 million made to various tax jurisdictions, the payment of our annual bonus of approximately $11.5 million and payments of approximately $10.6 million related to the restructuring actions we initiated during the first quarter of fiscal 2025 and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. During the three months ended September 2024, our days sales outstanding was 47 days compared to 42 days at the same period a year ago. Our annual inventory turns was four compared to three during the same period a year ago. Cash Flows from Investing Activities. Cash used by investing activities during the three months ended September 2024 and September 2023 was $9.1 million and $150.1 million, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended September 2024 consisted of $9.1 million for purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities. Cash used by financing activities for the three months ended September 2024 and September 2023 was $3.5 million and $18.1 million, respectively. Net cash used by financing activities for the three months ended September 2024 consisted of $11.3 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for share-based awards, partially offset by $7.7 million proceeds from issuance of shares primarily under the employee stock purchase plan. Common Stock Repurchase Program. As of April 2023, our board had cumulatively authorized $2.3 billion for our common stock repurchase program, which will expire in July 2025. The program authorizes us to purchase our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. The number of shares purchased, and the timing of purchases, are based on the level of our cash balances, general business and market conditions, and other factors. Common stock purchased under this program is held as treasury stock. From April 2005 through September 2024, we purchased, net of issuances for settlement of our convertible notes, 30,116,439 shares of our common stock in the open market for an aggregate cost of $878.0 million. During the nine months ended September 2024, we did not repurchase shares of our common stock. As of September 2024, the remaining available authorization under our common stock repurchase program was $893.9 million. Senior Notes. In March 2021, we completed an offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% senior notes due 2029, or the Senior Notes, in a private offering. The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 11, 2021, by and among our company, the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The Senior Notes requires bi-annual interest only payments in June and December of each year. For the three months ended September 2024, we did not pay any interest on the Senior Notes. Bank Credit Facility. On March 16, 2023, we entered into the Second Amendment, and on July 28, 2023, we entered into the Third Amendment to our Credit Agreement, dated March 11, 2021. The Second Amendment replaces the LIBOR-based interest rate applicable to borrowings under the Credit Agreement with SOFR-based interest rate. The Third Amendment provides that the consolidated interest coverage ratio financial covenant only applies if, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, our aggregate cash and cash equivalents balance is less than $450.0 million. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility in a principal amount of up to $250.0 million, which includes a $20.0 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $25.0 million sublimit for swingline loans. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we may, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, request increases in the revolving credit facility commitments in an aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million to the extent existing or new lenders agree to provide such increased or additional commitments, as applicable. Future proceeds under the revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of September 2024, there was no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Term Loan Facility. In December 2021, we entered into that certain First Amendment and Lender Joinder Agreement to the Credit Agreement, to, among other things, establish a new $600.0 incremental term loan facility, or the Term Loan Facility. The Term Loan Facility was advanced under the Credit Agreement to finance our DSPG acquisition. The Term Loan Facility matures on December 2, 2028. Principal on the Term Loan Facility is payable in equal quarterly installments on the last day of each March, June, September and December of each year, beginning December 31, 2001, at a rate of 1.00% per annum. For three months ended September 2024, we repaid $1.5 million of the principal outstanding on the Term Loan Facility. See Note 12. Debt in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our outstanding debt obligations. $100 Million Shelf Registration. We have registered an aggregate of $100.0 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares will generally be freely tradeable after their issuance under the Securities Act unless held by an affiliate of us, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. 29 Table of Contents Working Capital Needs. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from operating activities, anticipated cash flows from financing activities, and available credit under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, including small tuck-in acquisitions, and our debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, costs associated with restructuring activities net of projected savings from those activities, costs related to protecting our intellectual property, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, timing of introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products, costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing, costs of maintaining sufficient space for our workforce, the continuing market acceptance of our product solutions, our common stock repurchase program, and the amount and timing of our investments in, or acquisitions of, other technologies or companies. Further equity or debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our future long-term working capital needs, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures could be limited or severely constrained. The undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are not currently required to meet our United States working capital and other cash requirements, but should we repatriate a portion of these earnings, we may be required to pay certain previously accrued state and foreign taxes, which would impact our cash flows. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 2024 were as follows (in millions): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter Long-term debt (1) $ 1,241.1 $ 51.8 $ 130.1 $ 1059.2 $ Leases 58.3 10.0 20.1 13.2 15.0 Purchase obligations and other commitments (2) 88.4 52.5 35.9 0.0 Total $ 1,387.8 $ 114.3 $ 186.1 $ 1072.4 $ 15.0 (1)Represents the principal and interest payable through the maturity date of the underlying contractual obligation. (2)Purchase obligations and other commitments include payments due for inventory purchase obligations with contract manufacturers, long-term software tool licenses, and other licenses. The amounts in the table above exclude gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions of $44.6 million. As of September 2024, we were unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority may occur in connection with our gross unrecognized tax benefit. 30 Table of Contents