Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 26, 2021, and other risks as identified from time to time in our SEC reports. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not have, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly release any updates or any changes in our expectations, or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Statements made in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, include the use of the terms us, we, our, the Company and Synaptics to refer to Synaptics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Impact of COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global pandemic. In response to the outbreak, governmental authorities implemented numerous containment measures, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business restrictions and shutdowns, resulting in rapidly changing market and economic conditions. In certain countries in which we operate, governments took swift and effective measures to stem the spread, while in other countries in which we operate governments were slow to react or missed opportunities to effectively contain the spread. Although some of these restrictions and other containment measures have since been lifted or scaled back, ongoing surges of COVID-19 have resulted in the re-imposition of certain restrictions and containment measures and may lead to other restrictions being re-implemented in the future in response to efforts to reduce the rapid spread of COVID-19 and its variants. The health and wellbeing of our workforce is our highest priority. Many of our employees have worked from home since the COVID-19 outbreak was declared a pandemic in order to minimize the potential risk of spread of COVID-19 in our office environment. As the broad roll out of vaccines continues in various countries in which we operate, many employees who have been fully vaccinated have returned to the office environment on a part- or full-time basis. As more employees return to the office, we will continue to adhere to return to work protocols, based on guidance from local and global health organizations and applicable laws and regulations. While the severity and duration of business disruption to our customers and suppliers due to the COVID-19 pandemic continues to remain uncertain, we expect that the ongoing global vaccination programs will continue to moderate the overall severity and duration and remain optimistic the most significant impact has passed. If more infectious COVID-19 variants become resistant to the existing vaccines, however, we could experience renewed and sustained business disruption. To date, we have not incurred significant disruptions to our business or a materially negative impact on our condensed consolidated results of operations and financial condition from the COVID-19 outbreak, and continue to believe our business will not be severely impacted as steps continue to be taken globally to mitigate the spread, vaccinate large portions of the population and achieve herd immunity. 22 We will continue to evaluate the nature and scope of the impact to our business, consolidated results of operations, and financial condition and may take further actions altering our business operations and managing our costs and liquidity that we deem necessary or appropriate to respond to this fast moving and uncertain global health crisis and the resulting global economic consequences. Overview We are a leading worldwide developer and supplier of custom-designed semiconductor solutions that is changing the way humans engage with connected devices and data, engineering exceptional experiences throughout the home, at work, in the car and on the go. Our current served markets include Internet of Things, or IoT, personal computer, or PC, and Mobile. We deliver complete chip, firmware and software semiconductor solutions that include connectivity products, audio input and output System-On-Chips, or SoCs, high-definition video and vision SoCs, SoCs with artificial intelligence capabilities, touch controllers, touchpads, display drivers and fingerprint biometric sensors. We are a market leader in providing premium mixed signal semiconductor solutions to our target markets. Our Original Equipment Manufacturer, or OEM, customers include many of the worlds largest OEMs for smart home devices, automotive solutions, notebook computers and peripherals, smartphones and tablets, and many large OEMs for audio and video products. We generally supply our product solutions to our OEM customers through their contract manufacturers, which take delivery of our products and pay us directly for such products. Our manufacturing operations are based on a variable cost model in which we outsource all of our production requirements and generally drop ship our products directly to our customers from our contract manufacturers facilities, eliminating the need for significant capital expenditures and allowing us to minimize our investment in inventories. This approach requires us to work closely with our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators to ensure adequate production capacity to meet our forecasted volume requirements. As a result of recent supply constraints and capacity shortages affecting the global semiconductor industry, we have entered into long-term capacity and pricing agreements with some suppliers. We use third-party wafer manufacturers to supply wafers and third-party packaging manufacturers to package our proprietary application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs. In certain cases, we rely on a single source or a limited number of suppliers to provide other key components of our products. Our cost of revenue includes all costs associated with the production of our products, including materials; logistics; amortization of intangibles related to acquired developed technology; backlog; supplier arrangements; manufacturing, assembly, and test costs paid to third-party manufacturers; and related overhead costs associated with our indirect manufacturing operations personnel. Additionally, we charge all warranty costs, losses on inventory purchase obligations, and write-downs to reduce the carrying value of obsolete, slow moving, and non-usable inventory to net realizable value, to cost of revenue. Our gross margin generally reflects the combination of the added value we bring to our OEM customers products by meeting their custom design requirements and the impact of our ongoing cost-improvement programs. These cost-improvement programs include reducing materials and component costs and implementing design and process improvements. Our newly introduced products may have lower margins than our more mature products, which have realized greater benefits associated with our ongoing cost-improvement programs. As a result, new product introductions may initially negatively impact our gross margin. Our research and development expenses include costs for supplies and materials related to product development, as well as the engineering costs incurred to design ASICs and human experience solutions for OEM customers prior to and after our OEMs commitment to incorporate those solutions into their products. In addition, we expense in-process research and development projects acquired as part of a business acquisition, which have not yet reached technological feasibility, and which have no foreseeable alternative future use. We continue to commit to the technological and design innovation required to maintain our position in our existing markets, and to adapt our existing technologies or develop new technologies for new markets. Selling, general, and administrative expenses include expenses related to sales, marketing, and administrative personnel; internal sales and outside sales representatives commissions; market and usability research; outside legal, accounting, and consulting costs; and other marketing and sales activities. Acquired intangibles amortization, included in operating expenses, consists primarily of amortization of customer relationship and tradenames intangible assets rec ognized under the purchase method for business combinations. Restructuring costs primarily reflect severance and facilities consolidation costs related to the restructuring of our operations to reduce operating expenses. These headcount and facilities related costs were in cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Interest and other expense, net, primarily reflects loss on extinguishment of debt as discussed in Note 10 Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report, interest expense on our senior notes, convertible notes and 23 revolving line of credit as well as the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on our convertible notes, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Equity investment loss includes amortization of intangible assets as well as our portion of the net loss reflected under the equity method of accounting in connection with our investment in OXi Technology Ltd. Acquisitions DSP Group, Inc. On August 30, 2021, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with DSP Group, Inc, or DSPG, to acquire all of the equity interests in DSPG for $22.00 per share of common stock issued and outstanding. We intend to finance the transaction through a combination of cash on hand and debt financing. We have received a customary commitment for incremental debt financing for $600.0 million in support of the transaction, which incremental term loan facility will be incurred under our existing senior credit facility. The transaction is expected to close in our second quarter of fiscal 2022, subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions. DisplayLink On July 17, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the equity interests in DisplayLink Corporation, or DisplayLink, a leader in high-performance video compression technology. The acquisition closed on July 31, 2020. Our purchase consideration was $444.0 million. The results of DisplayLink are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods from August 1, 2020. Broadcom On July 2, 2020, we entered into definitive agreements with Broadcom, Inc., or Broadcom, to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of, and obtain non-exclusive licenses relating to, Broadcoms existing Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS/GNSS products and business in the IoT market, or Broadcom Business Acquisition, for an aggregate consideration of $250 million in cash which closed on July 23, 2020. We also entered into certain transition agreements with Broadcom for a period of three years. The results of the Broadcom Business Acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for periods from July 24, 2020. Divestitures In December 2020, we completed the sale of limited audio technology intangible assets, received a fully-paid up perpetual license back from the buyer and, as an element of the transaction licensed other audio technology intangible assets to the buyer under a fully-paid up perpetual license arrangement. Under the asset purchase agreement and the intellectual property license agreement, we received $35.0 million in cash. The gain on the sale of the audio technology assets was $34.2 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 25, 2021, compared with our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 26, 2021. 24 Results of Operations Beginning in the three months ended September 25, 2021, we are accounting for virtual reality revenue in IoT product applications rather than Mobile product applications. To conform the prior period revenue presentation to the current period revenue presentation, we reclassified $6.3 million virtual reality product revenue from Mobile product applications to IoT product applications for the three months ended September 26, 2020. Certain o f the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods indicated, together with comparative absolute and percentage changes in these amounts, were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 2021 2020 $ Change % Change IoT product applications $ 205.7 $ 120.7 $ 85.0 70.4 % PC product applications 88.6 80.5 8.1 10.1 % Mobile product applications 78.4 127.2 (48.8 ) (38.4 %) Net revenue 372.7 328.4 44.3 13.5 % Gross margin 198.1 134.5 63.6 47.3 % Operating expenses: Research and development 86.1 80.9 5.2 6.4 % Selling, general, and administrative 41.6 35.3 6.3 17.8 % Acquired intangibles amortization 8.4 6.7 1.7 25.4 % Restructuring costs 1.4 5.6 (4.2 ) (75.0 %) Operating income 60.6 6.0 54.6 910.0 % Interest and other expense, net (5.9 ) (4.7 ) (1.2 ) (25.5 %) Loss on redemption of convertible notes (8.1 ) (8.1 ) 100.0 % Income before provision for income taxes 46.6 1.3 45.3 3484.6 % Provision for income taxes 5.9 3.6 2.3 63.9 % Equity investment loss (0.5 ) (0.5 ) 0.0 % Net income (loss) $ 40.2 $ (2.8 ) $ 43.0 1535.7 % Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of income presented here as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Percentage Point September Increase/ 2021 2020 (Decrease) IoT product applications 55.2 % 36.8 % 18.4 % PC product applications 23.8 % 24.5 % (0.7 %) Mobile product applications 21.0 % 38.7 % (17.7 %) Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 0.0 % Gross margin 53.2 % 41.0 % 12.2 % Operating expenses: Research and development 23.1 % 24.6 % (1.5 %) Selling, general, and administrative 11.2 % 10.7 % 0.5 % Acquired intangibles amortization 2.3 % 2.0 % 0.3 % Restructuring costs 0.4 % 1.7 % (1.3 %) Operating income 16.3 % 1.8 % 14.5 % Interest and other expense, net (1.6 %) (1.4 %) (0.2 %) Loss on redemption of convertible notes (2.2 %) 0.0 % (2.2 %) Income before provision for income taxes 12.5 % 0.4 % 12.1 % Provision for income taxes 1.6 % 1.1 % 0.5 % Equity investment loss (0.1 %) (0.2 %) 0.1 % Net income (loss) 10.8 % (0.9 %) 11.7 % 25 Net Revenue Net revenue was $372.7 million for the three months ended September 25, 2021, compared with $328.4 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020, an increase of $44.3 million, or 13.5%. Of this net revenue, $205.7 million, or 55.2%, was from IoT product applications, $88.6 million, or 23.8%, was from PC product applications, and $78.4 million, or 21.0%, was from Mobile product applications. The increase in net revenue for the three months ended September 25, 2021 was primarily attributable to an increase in net revenue from IoT product applications and PC product applications, partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from Mobile product applications. Net revenue from IoT product applications increased as a result of an increase in units sold (which increased 30.7%) as well as higher average selling prices (which increased 30.5%) due to product sales mix, both of which reflect only a partial quarter impact in the September 2020 quarter of our acquisitions of DisplayLink and the Broadcom wireless business. Net revenue from PC product applications increased primarily as a result of higher average selling prices (which increased 8.8%) due to our product sales mix. Net revenue from Mobile product applications decreased due to a decline in units sold (which decreased 34.2%) for Mobile product applications and lower average selling prices (which decreased 6.3%) due to our product sales mix . Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 53.2%, or $198.1 million, for the three months ended September 25, 2021, compared with 41.0%, or $134.5 million, for the three months ended September 26, 2020. The 1,220 basis point increase in gross margin for the three months ended September 25, 2021, was primarily due to a favorable product mix, an increase in average sales prices, product cost reductions, as well as a $9.8 million decrease in inventory fair value adjustments that were completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2021 and were associated with the DisplayLink acquisition. Because we sell our technology solutions in designs that are generally unique or specific to an OEM customers application, gross margin varies on a product-by-product basis, making our cumulative gross margin a blend of our product specific designs. As a fabless manufacturer, our gross margin percentage is generally not materially impacted by our shipment volume. We charge losses on inventory purchase obligations and write-downs to reduce the carrying value of obsolete, slow moving, and non-usable inventory to net realizable value (including warranty costs) to cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses increased $5.2 to $86.1 million for the three months ended September 25, 2021, compared with $80.9 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020. The increase in research and development expenses primarily reflected a $9.8 million increase in share-based compensation costs which were incurred in connection with grants of awards primarily to new employees in fiscal 2021 and the first three months of fiscal 2022 and an increased stock price which impacted the value of the new grants and the phantom stock units accrual, partially offset by a decrease in software licenses and maintenance, project related costs and non-employee services. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $6.3 million to $41.6 million for the three months ended September 25, 2021, compared with $35.3 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses primarily reflected a $4.0 million increase in share-based compensation costs which were incurred in connection with grants of awards primarily to new employees in fiscal 2021 and the first three months of fiscal 2021 and an increased stock price which impacted the value of the new grants and the phantom stock units accrual, as well as a $1.8 million increase in personnel and related costs due to an increase in variable compensation. Acquired Intangibles Amortization. Acquired intangibles amortization reflects the amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. For further discussion of acquired intangibles amortization, see Note 6 Acquired Intangibles and Goodwill to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Restructuring Costs. Restructuring costs of $1.4 million in the three months ended September 25, 2021 reflect severance costs for restructuring of our operations to reduce ongoing operating costs. Restructuring activities commenced in fiscal 2022 are expected to be complete by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2022. For further discussion of restructuring costs, s ee Note 15 R estructuring Activities to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Interest and Other Expense, Net . Interest and other expense, net primarily includes interest on our debt, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest and other expense, net increased $1.2 million to $5.9 million for the three months ended September 25, 2021, as compared to $4.7 million for the three months ended September 26, 2020. The increase in interest and other expense, net is primarily due to interest and amortization of debt issuance costs on the $400.0 million principal amount of Senior Notes issued in March 2021 and $1.2 million income from the sale of non-operating assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 which did not repeat in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, 26 partially offset by lower interest and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on the convertible notes which were partially redeemed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and fully redeemed in the three months ended September 25, 2021. Loss on redemption of convertible notes. Loss on redemption of convertible notes, which began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and was completed in the three months ended September 25, 2021, represents the difference between fair value and the carrying value as of the redemption date. Provision for Income Taxes. We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. The provision for income taxes recorded in interim periods is based on our estimate of the annual effective tax rate applied to year-to-date income before provision for income taxes, adjusted for discrete items required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. In each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in that quarter. Our quarterly tax provision and our quarterly estimate of the annual effective tax rate can be subject to volatility due to several factors, including our ability to accurately forecast annual income before provision for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision for income taxes of $5.9 million and $3.6 million for the three months ended September 25, 2021 and September 26, 2020, respectively, represented estimated federal, foreign, and state income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 25, 2021 diverged from the combined U.S. federal and state statutory tax rate primarily because of the benefit of income taxed at lower rates, research credits and foreign tax credits, partially offset by foreign withholding taxes, non-deductible officer compensation, non-deductible stock-based compensation, and global intangible low-taxed income, or GILTI. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 26, 2020, diverged from the combined U.S. federal and state statutory tax rate, primarily because of foreign withholding taxes, income taxed at higher tax rates, non-deductible stock-based compensation and GILTI partially offset by the benefit of research credits and foreign tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents were $347.3 million as of September 25, 2021, compared with $836.3 million as of June 26, 2021, representing a decrease of $489.0 million. The decrease primarily reflected $505.6 million used for the payment for the redemption of convertible notes, $27.7 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for Restricted Stock Units, or RSUs, Market Stock Units, or MSUs and Performance Stock Units, or PSUs, $16.6 million for a refundable deposit paid to a vendor, and $4.7 million used for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $58.3 million of net cash provided by operating activities and $7.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of shares. We consider almost all of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as not indefinitely invested overseas and have made appropriate provisions for income or withholding taxes that may result from a future repatriation of those earnings. As of September 25, 2021, $279.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the United States, we would be able to repatriate these funds without impacting our tax provision. Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Operating activities during the three months ended September 25, 2021 generated $58.3 million compared with $6.5 million net cash generated during the three months ended September 26, 2020. For the three months ended September 25, 2021, the primary operating activities were adjustments for non-cash charges of $63.1 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $45.0 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a $41.4 million increase in accounts receivable, a $12.3 million decrease in accrued compensation, a $7.4 million increase in other assets, a $6.9 million decrease in income taxes payable, a $6.7 million increase in inventories, and a $5.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $24.0 million increase in other accrued liabilities and a $10.7 million increase in accounts payable. From June 26, 2021 to September 25, 2021, our days sales outstanding increased slightly from 63 days to 65 days. Our annual inventory turns increased from six to seven over the same time period. Cash Flows from Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended September 25, 2021 consisted of $4.7 million for purchases of property and equipment. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended September 26, 2020 consisted of $621.8 million used for acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and $3.9 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $31.1 million of proceeds from maturities of investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended September 25, 2021 was $542.1 million compared with $4.8 million provided by financing activities for the three months ended September 26, 2020. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended September 25, 2021 consisted of $505.6 million payment for redemption of convertible notes, $27.7 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for RSUs, MSUs and PSUs, and $16.6 million used for refundable deposit paid to vendor, partially offset by $7.8 million proceeds from issuance of shares. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended September 26, 2020 consisted of $10.4 million of proceeds from issuance of shares, partially offset by $5.6 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for RSUs, MSUs and PSUs. 27 Common Stock Repurchase Program. As of September 25, 2021, our board has cumulatively authorized $1.8 billion for our common stock repurchase program, which will expire in July 2025. The program authorizes us to purchase our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. The number of shares purchased and the timing of purchases are based on the level of our cash balances, general business and market conditions, and other factors. Common stock purchased under this program is held as treasury stock. From April 2005 through September 25, 2021, we purchased 31,749,195 shares of our common stock in the open market for an aggregate cost of $1.2 billion. During the three months ended September 25, 2021, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock. As of September 25, 2021, the remaining available authorization under our common stock repurchase program was $577.4 million. Senior Debt On March 11, 2021, we completed an offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% senior notes due 2029, or the Senior Notes, in a private offering. The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 11, 2021, or the Indenture, by and among our company, the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The Indenture provides that the Senior Notes will bear interest at a rate of 4.000% per annum, payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on December 15 and June 15 of each year, commencing on June 15, 2021. The Senior Notes will mature on June 15, 2029 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by each of our current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities. Prior to June 15, 2024, we may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus a make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date. We may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes on or after June 15, 2024 at the redemption prices specified below, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date: Year Price 2024 102 % 2025 101 % 2026 and thereafter 100 % In addition, at any time prior to June 15, 2024, we may redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 104% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date with the net cash proceeds from one or more equity offerings by us. The Senior Notes are the general unsecured obligations of our company. The Senior Note guarantees are the senior unsecured obligations of each guarantor. Under certain circumstances, the guarantors may be released from their Senior Note guarantees without consent of the holders of Senior Notes. Under the terms of the Indenture, the Senior Notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors existing and future senior indebtedness, and rank contractually senior in right of payment to our and the guarantors future indebtedness and other obligations that are, by their terms, expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors existing and future secured indebtedness, including secured indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Senior Notes and guarantees are structurally subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes. The Indenture contains covenants that, subject to exceptions and qualifications, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Indenture) to (i) incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; (ii) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our companys or any parents capital stock; (iii) prepay, redeem or repurchase certain indebtedness; (iv) issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; (v) make loans and investments; (vi) dispose of assets; (vii) incur liens; (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates; (ix) enter into agreements restricting its subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and (x) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. The Indenture contains customary events of default including, without limitation, failure to make required payments, failure to comply with certain agreements or covenants, cross-acceleration to certain other indebtedness in excess of specified amounts, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and failure to pay certain judgments. An event of default under the Indenture will allow either the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes to accelerate, or in certain cases, will automatically cause the acceleration of, the maturity of the principal, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Senior Notes. Bank Credit Facility. On March 11, 2021, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, or the Credit Agreement, with the lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, or the Credit Agreement, to, among other changes, extend the maturity date of our senior secured revolving credit facility, to five years from the 28 closing date of the amendment, increase the facility size from $200.0 million to $250.0 million, and replace the requirement to maintain a total debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of not more than 4.75 to 1.00 with a requirement to maintain a net total debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.75 to 1.00 provided that for the four fiscal quarters ending after the date of a material acquisition, such maximum leverage ratio shall be adjusted to 4.25 to 1.00, and thereafter 3.75 to 1.00, provided further, that such deemed increase pursuant to the foregoing shall not apply to more than two material acquisitions consummated during the term of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility in a principal amount of up to $250 million, which includes a $20 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $25 million sublimit for swingline loans. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we may, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, request increases in the revolving credit facility commitments in an aggregate principal amount of up to $150 million to the extent existing or new lenders agree to provide such increased or additional commitments, as applicable. Future proceeds under the revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes. In March 2021 we used a portion of the proceeds from the Senior Notes described above to repay the $100.0 million outstanding borrowings on this revolving credit facility. As of September 25, 2021, there was no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are required to be repaid in full by March 11, 2026. Debt issuance costs relating to the revolving credit facility of $1.6 million, included in non-current other assets on our consolidated balance sheet, are being amortized over 60 months. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the material domestic subsidiaries of our company, subject to certain exceptions (such material subsidiaries, together with our company, collectively, the Credit Parties). The obligations of the Credit Parties under the Credit Agreement and the other loan documents delivered in connection therewith are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future personal property of the Credit Parties, including, without limitation, 65% of the voting capital stock and 100% of the non-voting capital stock of certain of the Credit Parties direct foreign subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The revolving credit facility bears interest at our election of a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin or LIBOR plus an Applicable Margin. Swingline loans bear interest at a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin. The Base Rate is a floating rate that is the greater of the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate plus 50 basis points, or LIBOR plus 100 basis points. The Applicable Margin is based on a sliding scale that ranges from 0.25 to 100 basis points for Base Rate loans and 100 basis points to 175 basis points for LIBOR loans. We are required to pay a commitment fee on any unused commitments under the Credit Agreement which is determined on a leverage-based sliding scale ranging from 0.175% to 0.25% per annum. Interest and fees are payable on a quarterly basis. The LIBOR index is expected to be discontinued at the end of 2021. Under our credit facility, when the LIBOR index is discontinued, we will switch to a comparable or successor rate as selected by us and the administrative agent, which may include the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR. Under the Credit Agreement, there are various restrictive covenants, including two financial covenants that limit the consolidated total leverage ratio, or leverage ratio, the consolidated interest coverage ratio, or interest coverage ratio, a restriction that permits accounts receivable financings provided that the aggregate unpaid amount of permitted accounts receivable financings are no more than the greater of $100 million and 50% of the amount of all accounts receivable of the company and specified subsidiaries, and other specific items. The leverage ratio is the ratio of debt as of the measurement date to Consolidated EBITDA, for the four consecutive quarters ending with the quarter of measurement. The current leverage ratio shall not exceed 3.75 to 1.00 provided that for the four fiscal quarters ending after the date of a material acquisition, such maximum leverage ratio shall be adjusted to 4.25 to 1.00, and thereafter 3.75 to 1.0. The interest coverage ratio is Consolidated EBITDA to interest expense for the four consecutive quarters ending with the quarter of measurement. The interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.50 to 1.0 during the term of the Credit Agreement. As of September 25, 2021, we remain in compliance with the restrictive covenants. $100 Million Shelf Registration. We have registered an aggregate of $100.0 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares will generally be freely tradeable after their issuance under the Securities Act unless held by an affiliate of us, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Working Capital Needs. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from operating activities, anticipated cash flows from financing activities, and available credit under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, including acquisitions, and our debt service obligations, for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue, the effectiveness of vaccines on variants of COVID-19, including the deployment of those vaccines to help reduce the length, duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, costs associated with restructuring activities net of projected savings from those activities, costs related to protecting our intellectual property, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, 29 timing of introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products, costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing, costs of maintaining sufficient space for our workforce, the continuing market acceptance of our product solutions, our common stock repurchase program, and the amount and timing of our investments in, or acquisitions of, other technologies or companies. Further equity or debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our future long-term working capital needs, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures could be limited or severely constrained. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not currently anticipate the need to remit undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, but if we did remit such earnings, we may be required to pay certain state and foreign taxes to repatriate these funds, which could adversely impact our financial position. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 25, 2021 were as follows (in millions): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter Long-term debt (1) $ 528.0 $ 16.0 $ 32.0 $ 32.0 $ 448.0 Leases 41.2 7.8 13.5 10.0 9.9 Purchase obligations and other commitments (2) 210.3 99.3 111.0 Transition tax payable (3) 7.4 0.3 4.1 3.0 Total $ 786.9 $ 123.4 $ 160.6 $ 45.0 $ 457.9 (1) Represents the principal and interest payable through the maturity date of the underlying contractual obligation. (2) Purchase obligations and other commitments include payments due for inventory purchase obligations with contract manufacturers, long-term software tool licenses, and other licenses. (3) Represents the remaining balance of the one-time transition tax liability associated with our deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law on December 22, 2017. The amounts in the table above exclude gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions of $23.4 million. As of September 25, 2021, we were unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority may occur in connection with our gross unrecognized tax benefit. 30 ITE M 3.