ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Results This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2023 (this Report) contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business, can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements may include words such as expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, target, strategy, continue, may, will, should, variations of such words, or other words and terms of similar meaning. All forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment and are based on several factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to the following: our dependence on our solutions for the Core IoT and Enterprise and Automotive product applications market for a substantial portion of our revenue; risks related to the volatility of our net revenue from our solutions for Core IoT and Enterprise and Automotive product applications; our dependence on one or more large customers; our exposure to industry downturns and cyclicality in our target markets; the risk that our product solutions for new markets will not be successful; our ability to maintain and build relationships with our customers; our dependence on third parties to maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and deliverable schedule; regional instabilities and hostilities (including the war in Israel) and the risks as identified in the Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2023, and other risks as identified from time to time in our SEC reports. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not have, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly release any updates or any changes in our expectations, or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that have not been completed as of the date of this filing. Statements made in this Report, unless the context otherwise requires, include the use of the terms us, we, our, the Company and Synaptics to refer to Synaptics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading worldwide developer and fabless supplier of premium mixed signal semiconductor solutions changing the way humans engage with connected devices and data, engineering exceptional experiences throughout the home, at work, in the car and on the go. We believe our results to date reflect the combination of our customer focus and the strength of our intellectual property and our engineering know-how, which allow us to develop or engineer products that meet the demanding design specifications of our Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs. We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Nearly all of our revenue, except an inconsequential amount, is recognized at a point in time, either on shipment or delivery of the product, depending on customer terms and conditions. Revenue recognition from the licensing of our IP is dependent on the nature and terms of each agreement. We recognize revenue from the licensing of our IP upon delivery of the IP if there are no substantive future obligations to perform under the arrangement. Sales-based or usage-based royalties from the license of IP are recognized at the later of the period the sale or usage occurs, or the satisfaction of the performance obligation to which some or all of the sales-based or usage-based royalties have been allocated. Many of our customers have manufacturing operations in China, and many of our OEM customers have established design centers in Asia. With our expanding global presence, including offices in China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Poland, Switzerland, Taiwan, the U.K., and the U.S., we are well positioned to provide local sales, operational, and engineering support services to our existing customers, as well as potential new customers, on a global basis. Our manufacturing operations are based on a variable cost model in which we outsource all of our production requirements and generally drop ship our products directly to our customers from our contract manufacturers facilities, eliminating the need for significant capital expenditures and allowing us to minimize our investment in inventories. This approach requires us to work closely with our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators to ensure adequate production capacity to meet our forecasted volume requirements. In the past, when supply constraints and capacity shortages have impacted the global semiconductor industry, we have entered into long-term capacity and pricing agreements with some suppliers. We use third-party wafer manufacturers to supply wafers and third-party packaging manufacturers to package our proprietary ASICs. In certain cases, we rely on a single source or a limited number of suppliers to provide other key components of our products. Our cost of revenue includes all costs associated with the production of our products, including materials; logistics; amortization of intangibles related to acquired developed technology; 25 backlog; supplier arrangements; manufacturing, assembly, royalties paid to third-party intellectual property providers and test costs paid to third-party manufacturers; and related overhead costs associated with our indirect manufacturing operations personnel. Additionally, we charge all warranty costs, losses on inventory purchase obligations, and the provision for excess and obsolete inventories to cost of revenue. Our gross margin generally reflects the combination of the added value we bring to our OEM customers products by meeting their custom design requirements and the impact of our ongoing cost-improvement programs. These cost-improvement programs include reducing materials and component costs and implementing design and process improvements. Our newly introduced products may have lower margins than our more mature products, which have realized greater benefits associated with our ongoing cost-improvement programs. As a result, new product introductions may initially negatively impact our gross margin. Our research and development expenses include costs for supplies and materials related to product development, as well as the engineering costs incurred to design ASICs and human experience solutions for OEM customers prior to and after our OEMs commitment to incorporate those solutions into their products. In addition, we expense in-process research and development projects acquired as part of a business acquisition, which have not yet reached technological feasibility, and which have no foreseeable alternative future use. We continue to commit to the technological and design innovation required to maintain our position in our existing markets, and to adapt our existing technologies or develop new technologies for new markets. Selling, general, and administrative expenses include expenses related to sales, marketing, and administrative personnel; internal sales and outside sales representatives commissions; market and usability research; outside legal, accounting, and consulting costs; and other marketing and sales activities. Acquired intangibles amortization, included in operating expenses, consists primarily of amortization of developed technology, customer relationship and tradenames intangible assets recognized under the purchase method for business combinations. Restructuring costs primarily reflect severance costs related to the restructuring of our operations to reduce operating expenses and gain efficiencies from our recent acquisitions. See Note 17. Restructuring Activities to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Interest and other expense, net, primarily reflects interest expense on our Senior Notes (as defined herein), Term Loan Facility (as defined herein) and revolving line of credit as well as the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount on our debt, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Acquisitions Broadcom In July 2023, we entered into a transaction with Broadcom to extend the exclusivity period of certain developed technologies, and to license certain technology assets for an aggregate consideration of $130.0 million, which was paid in cash in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Emza On October 25, 2022, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Emza for total purchase consideration of $15.8 million, which was paid in cash. The results of Emza are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods from October 25, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 2023, compared with our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2023. Trends and Uncertainties Current Economic Conditions The frequency and amplitude in which central banks raise interest rates has subsided relative to the first half of calendar year 2023, but the impact has had a material effect on many sectors of the economy leading to broad-based workforce reductions, a slowing or deferral of investment in information technology spending, and increased concern of a global recession. We believe the threat of global recession is the primary driver for the slowdown in orders from our customer base. During the quarter, we continued to experience a broad reduction in demand in most of our product applications as many customers and channel partners continue to consume their accumulation of inventories, combined with customer requests to delay orders. We continue to believe that the demand slowdown is temporary, but the rebound in demand is likely to extend beyond calendar 2023, and potentially beyond 2024. In addition, although we currently do not believe inflation in the costs of goods and services will have a material impact on our results of operations, it is possible that rising inflation could increase our operating expenses and reduce our net income. Further, rising interest rates have increased our borrowing costs on our variable rate Term Loan Facility, which will continue to drive an increase in interest 26 costs in future accounting periods and potentially limit our borrowing capacity if a future acquisition opportunity requiring financing presents itself. The War between Israel and Hamas The uncertainty resulting from the war in Israel and the threat for expansion of the war could result in some of our customers delaying purchases from us. Although our employees in this office have the ability to work remotely and business continuity plans are in place to address any medium- or long-term disruptions that could result from the closure of this office, the office closure and general effects of employees operating in a region at war could have a negative impact on our operations. Further, a number of our employees in Israel are members of the military reserves subject to activation in response to the war. Following the terrorist attacks in Israel in October 2023, a number of our employees have been activated for military duty, and additional employees may be activated if the war in Israel continues. While we also have business continuity plans in place to address the safety of our employees and to continue product development in the event of reduced employee availability in the region during the war, it could affect the timing of projects in the short-term as work is shifted to other team members where necessary. Results of Operations In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we changed the classification of our product categories to more closely align with the strategic focus of the Company. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period revenue presentation to conform to the current period revenue presentation. Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated, together with comparative absolute and percentage changes in these amounts, were as follows (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Enterprise and Automotive product applications $ 154.8 $ 294.5 $ (139.7 ) (47.4 %) Core IoT product applications 38.5 113.4 (74.9 ) (66.0 %) Mobile product applications 44.4 40.2 4.2 10.4 % Net revenue 237.7 448.1 (210.4 ) (47.0 %) Gross margin 107.1 255.7 (148.6 ) (58.1 %) Operating expenses: Research and development 86.5 89.5 (3.0 ) (3.4 %) Selling, general, and administrative 42.3 44.7 (2.4 ) (5.4 %) Acquired intangibles amortization 5.5 9.5 (4.0 ) (42.1 %) Restructuring costs 8.0 8.0 100% Operating (loss) income (35.2 ) 112.0 (147.2 ) (131.4 %) Interest and other expense, net (5.4 ) (8.3 ) 2.9 34.9 % (Loss) income before provision for income taxes (40.6 ) 103.7 (144.3 ) (139.2 %) Provision for income taxes 15.0 39.1 (24.1 ) (61.6 %) Net (loss) income $ (55.6 ) $ 64.6 $ (120.2 ) (186.1 %) 27 Certain of the data used in our condensed consolidated statements of operations presented here as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Percentage Point September Increase/ 2023 2022 (Decrease) Enterprise and Automotive product applications 65.1 % 65.7 % (0.6 %) Core IoT product applications 16.2 % 25.3 % (9.1 %) Mobile product applications 18.7 % 9.0 % 9.7 % Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 0.0 % Gross margin 45.1 % 57.1 % (12.0 %) Operating expenses: Research and development 36.4 % 20.0 % 16.4 % Selling, general, and administrative 17.8 % 10.0 % 7.8 % Acquired intangibles amortization 2.3 % 2.1 % 0.2 % Restructuring costs 3.4 % 0.0 % 3.4 % Operating (loss) income (14.8 %) 25.0 % (39.8 %) Interest and other expense, net (2.3 %) (1.9 %) (0.4 %) (Loss) income before provision for income taxes (17.1 %) 23.1 % (40.2 %) Provision for income taxes 6.3 % 8.7 % (2.4 %) Net (loss) income (23.4 %) 14.4 % (37.8 %) Net Revenue Net revenue was $237.7 million for the three months ended September 2023, compared with $448.1 million for the three months ended September 2022, a decrease of $210.4 million, or 47.0%. Of this net revenue, $154.8 million, or 65.1%, was from Enterprise and Automotive product applications, $44.4 million, or 18.7%, was from Mobile product applications, and $38.5 million, or 16.2%, was from Core IoT product applications. Revenue decreased in most of our product applications for the three months ended September 2023. Net revenue from Enterprise and Automotive product applications decreased as a result of lower average selling prices (which decreased 16.2%) due to product sales mix and a decrease in units sold (which decreased 37.3%). The decrease in revenue from Enterprise and Automotive product applications was partially offset by $27.0 million in revenue from a license of certain of our IP, or the IP license. Net revenue from Mobile product applications increased due to an increase in units sold (which increased 131.6%), as demand increased for our products in the mobile market, partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices (which decreased 52.3%) due to our product sales mix. Net revenue from Core IoT product applications decreased due to a decline in units sold (which decreased 70.7%) related to certain end customers' decline in demand and desire to reduce their inventory holdings, partially offset by an increase in average selling prices (which increased 15.7%) due to our product sales mix. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 45.1%, or $107.1 million, for the three months ended September 2023, compared with 57.1%, or $255.7 million, for the three months ended September 2022. The net 1,200 basis point decrease in gross margin for the three months ended September 2023 was primarily due to an increase in the excess obsolescence reserve during the first quarter of fiscal 2024 and an overall decline in average sales prices across many of our product applications, partially offset by revenue from the IP license. Because we sell our technology solutions in designs that are generally unique or specific to an OEM customers application, gross margin varies on a product-by-product basis, making our cumulative gross margin a blend of our product specific designs. As a fabless manufacturer, our gross margin percentage is generally not materially impacted by our shipment volume. Under most circumstances, revenue from license-based arrangements are accretive to our gross margin. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses decreased $3.0 million to $86.5 million for the three months ended September 2023, compared with $89.5 million for the three months ended September 2022. The decrease in research and development expenses was primarily driven by a $3.4 million decrease in variable compensation costs and a $2.5 million decrease in amortization of prepaid development costs that were fully amortized at the end of fiscal 2023, partially offset by an increase in product development spend of $2.0 million and the reflection of one additional week in the current period compared to the same period a year ago. 28 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $2.4 million to $42.3 million for the three months ended September 2023, compared with $44.7 million for the three months ended September 2022. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses primarily reflected a $1.7 million decrease in variable compensation and a $1.4 million favorable impact from exchange rates on foreign currencies, partially offset by a $1.2 million increase in professional services. Acquired Intangibles Amortization. Acquired intangibles amortization reflects the amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. For further discussion of acquired intangibles amortization, see Note 8. Acquired Intangibles and Goodwill to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. Interest and Other Expense, Net. Interest and other expense, net, primarily includes interest on our debt, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest and other expense, net, decreased by $2.9 million to $5.4 million for the three months ended September 2023, as compared to $8.3 million for the three months ended September 2022. Interest expense on the $600 million incremental Term Loan Facility increased by $4.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 compared to the same period a year ago, as the interest rate on the Term Loan Facility increased by 338 basis points period-over-period. The interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs on the Term Loan Facility for the three months ended September 2023 and 2022 were $11.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively. The increase in interest expense was partially offset by an increase of $7.6 million in interest income compared to the same period a year ago and is due to the rise in interest rates period-over-period. Provision for Income Taxes. We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. The provision for income taxes recorded in interim periods is based on our estimate of the annual effective tax rate applied to year-to-date income before provision for income taxes, adjusted for discrete items required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. In each quarter, we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment in that quarter. Our quarterly tax provision and our quarterly estimate of the annual effective tax rate can be subject to volatility due to several factors, including our ability to accurately forecast annual income before provision for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. See Note 14. Income Taxes in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents were $801.3 million as of September 2023, compared with $924.7 million as of June 2023, representing a decrease of $123.4 million. The decrease is primarily related to a prepayment of intangible assets of $130.0 million paid to Broadcom. We consider almost all of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as not indefinitely invested overseas and have made appropriate provisions for income or withholding taxes that may result from a future repatriation of those earnings. As of September 2023, $765.0 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the United States, we would be able to repatriate substantially all of these funds without impacting our provision for income taxes. Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Operating activities during the three months ended September 2023 generated $45.4 million compared with $78.5 million net cash generated during the three months ended September 2022. For the three months ended September 2023, the primary operating activities were adjustments for non-cash charges of $75.2 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $25.8 million. The net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a $53.6 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily related to a decrease in sales and payment in advance from some of our customers, a $6.8 million decrease in inventories as we continue our efforts to control inventory spend while turning over the inventories we accumulated during the first half of fiscal 2023 and a $22.0 million decrease in accrued compensation primarily related to payment of our annual bonus in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, partially offset by a $16.7 million increase in accounts payable due to the timing of payments made to our vendors. During the three months ended September 2023, our days sales outstanding was 42 days compared to 57 days at the same period a year ago. Our annual inventory turns decreased from four to three over the same time period. Cash Flows from Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended September 2023 was $150.1 million compared with cash provided by investing activities of $2.3 million during the three months ended September 2022. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended September 2023 consisted of $130.0 million paid to Broadcom as a prepayment to acquire developed technologies and to extend the exclusivity for certain products for an additional three-year period, $16.6 million to purchase short-term investments and $6.7 million for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $3.2 million in proceeds from the maturities of our short-term investments. 29 Cash Flows from Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended September 2023 was $18.1 million compared with $35.0 million used by financing activities for the three months ended September 2022. Net cash used by financing activities for the three months ended September 2023 consisted of $25.3 million used for payroll taxes on the delivery of the underlying shares for share-based awards, partially offset by $8.5 million proceeds from issuance of shares. Common Stock Repurchase Program. As of April 2023, our board had cumulatively authorized $2.3 billion for our common stock repurchase program, which will expire in July 2025. The program authorizes us to purchase our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. The number of shares purchased, and the timing of purchases, are based on the level of our cash balances, general business and market conditions, and other factors. Common stock purchased under this program is held as treasury stock. From April 2005 through September 2023, we purchased, net of issuances for settlement of our convertible notes, 30,116,439 shares of our common stock in the open market for an aggregate cost of $878.0 million. During the three months ended September 2023, we did not repurchase shares of our common stock. As of September 2023, the remaining available authorization under our common stock repurchase program was $893.9 million. Senior Notes. In March 2021, we completed an offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% senior notes due 2029, or the Senior Notes, in a private offering. The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 11, 2021, by and among our company, the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The Senior Notes requires bi-annual interest only payments in June and December of each year. For the three months ended September 2023, we did not pay any interest on the Senior Notes. Bank Credit Facility. On March 16, 2023, we entered into the Second Amendment, and on July 28, 2023, we entered into the Third Amendment to our Credit Agreement, dated March 11, 2021. The Second Amendment replaces the LIBOR-based interest rate applicable to borrowings under the Credit Agreement with SOFR-based interest rate. The Third Amendment provides that the consolidated interest coverage ratio financial covenant only applies if, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, our aggregate cash and cash equivalents balance is less than $450 million. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility in a principal amount of up to $250 million, which includes a $20 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $25 million sublimit for swingline loans. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we may, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, request increases in the revolving credit facility commitments in an aggregate principal amount of up to $150 million to the extent existing or new lenders agree to provide such increased or additional commitments, as applicable. Future proceeds under the revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of September 2023, there was no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Term Loan Facility. In December 2021, we entered into that certain First Amendment and Lender Joinder Agreement to the Credit Agreement, to, among other things, establish a new $600.0 million incremental term loan facility, or the Term Loan Facility. The Term Loan Facility was advanced under the Credit Agreement to finance our DSPG acquisition. The Term Loan Facility matures on December 2, 2028. Principal on the Term Loan Facility is payable in equal quarterly installments on the last day of each March, June, September and December of each year, beginning December 31, 2021, at a rate of 1.00% per annum. For three months ended September 2023, we repaid $3.0 million of the principal outstanding on the Term Loan Facility. See Note 12. Debt in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our outstanding debt obligations. $100 Million Shelf Registration. We have registered an aggregate of $100.0 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares will generally be freely tradeable after their issuance under the Securities Act unless held by an affiliate of us, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Working Capital Needs. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from operating activities, anticipated cash flows from financing activities, and available credit under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and other cash requirements, including small tuck-in acquisitions, and our debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, costs associated with restructuring activities net of projected savings from those activities, costs related to protecting our intellectual property, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, timing of introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products, costs to ensure access to adequate manufacturing, costs of maintaining sufficient space for our workforce, the continuing market acceptance of our product solutions, our common stock repurchase program, and the amount and timing of our investments in, or acquisitions of, other technologies or companies. Further equity or debt financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our future long-term working capital needs, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures could be limited or severely constrained. The undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are not currently required to meet our United States working capital and other cash requirements, but should we repatriate a portion of these earnings, we may be required to pay certain previously accrued state and foreign taxes, which would impact our cash flows. 30 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 2023 were as follows (in millions): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Thereafter Long-term debt (1) $ 1,313.5 $ 41.7 $ 133.8 $ 131.9 $ 1,006.1 Leases 59.9 8.3 18.6 13.0 20.0 Purchase obligations and other commitments (2) 153.1 71.0 82.1 Total $ 1,526.5 $ 121.0 $ 234.5 $ 144.9 $ 1,026.1 (1) Represents the principal and interest payable through the maturity date of the underlying contractual obligation. (2) Purchase obligations and other commitments include payments due for inventory purchase obligations with contract manufacturers, long-term software tool licenses, and other licenses. The amounts in the table above exclude gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions of $39.3 million. As of September 2023, we were unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority may occur in connection with our gross unrecognized tax benefit. 31