Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other risks as identified from time-to-time in our Securities and Exchange Commission reports. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we do not have, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly release any updates or any changes in our expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. Our actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. Statements made in this report, unless the context otherwise requires, include the use of the terms us, we, our, the company and Synaptics to refer to Synaptics Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Synaptics designs and delivers AI-enabled edge solutions that bring AI closer to end users and transform how we engage with intelligent connected devices, whether at home, at work or on the move. We are a strategic partner for many global original equipment manufacturers, (OEM), offering custom silicon and software platforms for edge AI, wireless connectivity and human interface technologies. Our Synaptics Astra AI-native and Veroswireless solutions combine embedded compute, connectivity and multimodal sensing to support intuitive, secure and seamless digital experiences. From touch, display and biometrics to AI-enabled wireless connectivity, video, vision, audio, speech and security processing, our solutions support the next generation of intelligent devices that enhance how people live, work and interact with technology. We were initially incorporated in California in 1986 and were re-incorporated in Delaware in 2002. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday in June. The fiscal years presented in this report are the 52-week periods ended June 28, 2025 and June 24, 2023, and the 53-week period ended June 29, 2024. Target Markets and Products We are a leader in human interface technologies, enabling innovative and intuitive user experiences across a wide range of intelligent devices. Our portfolio includes touch, display, biometrics, voice, audio, processor, wireless and multimedia products built on rich research and development (R&D), a broad intellectual property portfolio and established supply chain partnerships. Designed for mobile, personal computers (PC), smart home, industrial and automotive applications, our solutions combine ease of use, functionality, performance and aesthetics to help make digital lives more productive, secure and enjoyable. We focus on three primary markets. Our product offerings within those target markets are as follows: Core IoT Applications Markets Wireless Our Veros family of wireless connectivity solutions include advanced Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), Zigbee, Thread, Matter, Global Positioning System (GPS), Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), Ultra-Wideband (UWB) and Ultra Low Energy (ULE) to address broad Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Our devices help users connect seamlessly to multiple devices, such as home automation, multimedia streamers, security sensors, surveillance cameras, wireless speakers, games, drones, printers, wearable and fitness devices, and numerous other applications requiring a wireless connection. Processors Our Synaptics Astra family of AI solutions include a scalable portfolio of intelligent edge processors designed to reduce latency, lower bandwidth usage and enhance security. Applications range from highly integrated microprocessor units (MPU) to high-performance microcontroller units (MCU) architected for AI-enabled IoT systems. We also provide a standards-based open software framework, rapid prototyping kits, full-featured artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning (ML) toolkits and integration with Synaptics Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity solutions. Our Astra Machina Foundation Series Modular development kits support the Synaptics SL-Series of high-performance embedded processors as well as the Synaptics Machina Micro development kit for the SR100 Series of MCUs. Integrated solutions with Astra, Veros and Human Interface products By combining the AI processing power of the Astra family with the robust wireless capabilities of the Veros portfolio and our Human Interface products (primarily Touch), Synaptics delivers complete end-to-end solutions for intelligent, connected devices. This powerful integration enables OEMs to accelerate innovation across diverse IoT applicationssuch as smart home, industrial, consumer, and automotiveby leveraging low-latency AI processing at the edge alongside secure, seamless wireless connectivity. Whether deploying a voice-enabled smart assistant, a computer vision-enabled security device, or a multimodal sensor fusion system, developers can build faster using Synaptics comprehensive hardware-software platforms, including modular development kits, open software frameworks, and optimized AI/ML toolchains. 1 Table of Contents Enterprise and Automotive Applications Markets PC Touchpad / Biometric Fingerprint Our Natural ID family of capacitive-based fingerprint identification products is designed to support security and user convenience across a wide range of devices, including notebook PCs, PC peripherals and automobiles. Natural ID is designed for seamless integration into end products and is available in multiple form factors, colors and materials. These options give manufacturers the flexibility to position sensors on the front, back or side of devices in ways that support security, usability, and alignment with their aesthetic and functional design goals. Video Interface Our video interface solutionsfeaturing DisplayLink and DisplayPort portfolioare designed to simplify connectivity to external displays while maintaining broad compatibility and performance. Supporting the latest versions of major protocols, connectors and operating systems, our solutions help manufacturers with flexibility to enable seamless, high-quality video experiences across a wide range of devices. Automotive Our innovative solutions, including integrated touch and display, local dimming and driver sensing technologies, are designed to help manufacturers create smarter, more intuitive user experiences. These technologies enable sleeker designs, enhanced visual performance and improved driver awareness and safety, helping manufacturers deliver feature-rich products that may offer a competitive advantage and improved user experiences. Mobile Applications Markets With over 500 touch-related patents and full support for next-generation organic light emitting diode (OLED) technologies, Synaptics offers advanced touch solutions for mobile application markets. Our technology is designed to deliver responsive, high-performance touch experiences that enhance device usability, support cutting-edge displays and elevate the user experience across smartphones, tablets and more. Acquisitions We evaluate strategic opportunities regularly and, where appropriate, may acquire additional businesses, products or technologies that broaden the markets for our target markets and products. Over the past few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions that have enabled us to acquire technologies that have allowed us to expand upon our portfolio of products and enter various markets. In January 2025, we acquired certain assets and obtained non-exclusive licenses relating to Broadcom Inc.s (Broadcom) Wi-Fi technology. This transaction is intended to accelerate our Edge AI strategy and next-generation products and technology for the IoT markets. The acquired assets include non-exclusive licenses to three developed technology products and the right to obtain licenses for eight roadmap technology intangible assets expected to be delivered at various dates through September 2027. In connection with this transaction, we also acquired certain employees from Broadcom. The expected strategic benefits of this transaction are as follows: Accelerates Edge AI strategy: Enhances our ability to deliver end-to-end AI and IoT connectivity solutions for edge devices. Expands Our Veros wireless product roadmap: Adds Wi-Fi 8 combo, UWB, GPS, GNSS, and Wi-Fi 7 combo products to strengthen our wireless portfolio over the next five years. Increases addressable market: Expands serviceable wireless market to include augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) platforms, Android smartphones and consumer audio. Strengthens wireless engineering team: Adds experienced wireless engineering talent and technical capabilities to advance our wireless R&D initiatives. See Part II