ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 1 Financial Information of this Form 10-Q. The words Synchronoss, we, our, ours, us, and the Company refer to Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, hopes, should, continues, seeks, likely or similar expressions, indicate a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business and financial performance. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We caution investors not to place substantial reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this quarterly report. These statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. All numbers are expressed in thousands unless otherwise stated. Overview Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. (Synchronoss or the Company) is a global software and services company that provides essential technologies for the mobile transformation of business. The Companys portfolio contains offerings such as personal cloud, secure-mobility, identity management and scalable messaging platforms, products and solutions. These essential technologies create a better way of delivering the transformative mobile experiences that the Companys customers need to help them stay ahead of the curve in competition, innovation, productivity, growth and operational efficiency. Synchronoss products and platforms are designed to be carrier-grade, flexible and scalable, enabling multiple converged communication services to be managed across a range of distribution channels including e-commerce, m-commerce, telesales, customer stores, indirect and other retail outlets. This business model allows the Company to meet the rapidly changing converged services and connected devices offered by their customers. Synchronoss products, platforms and solutions enable its customers to acquire, retain and service subscribers and employees quickly, reliably and cost-effectively with white label and custom-branded solutions. Synchronoss customers can simplify the processes associated with managing the customer experience for procuring, activating, connecting, backing-up, synchronizing and sharing/collaboration with connected devices and contents from these devices and associated services. The extensibility, scalability, reliability and relevance of the Companys platforms enable new revenue streams and retention opportunities for their customers through new subscriber acquisitions, sale of new devices, accessories and new value-added service offerings in the Cloud. By using the Companys technologies, Synchronoss customers can optimize their cost of operations while enhancing their customer experience. The Company currently operates in and markets its solutions and services directly through its sales organizations in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Impacts of COVID-19 Although COVID-19 has not significantly affected our business to date, this disclosure discusses the actions the Company has taken in response to the COVID-19 crisis and the impacts that the situation has had on our business, as well as related known or expected trends. The continued impact of COVID-19 on the macroeconomy and our business will depend significantly on the effectiveness and distribution of the vaccine, the potential cyclicality of the health crisis and the related public policy actions, market or regulatory needs or demands, the length and severity of the global economic slowdown, and whether and how our customers change their behaviors over the longer term. As a result, the demand for our products and services, as well as our overall results 32 Table of Contents of operations, may be materially and adversely impacted by the pandemic for the duration of 2021 or longer, and we are unable to predict the duration or degree of such impact with any certainty. In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to execute our business continuity plans and evolve our operations to protect the safety of our employees while continuing to provide critical products and services to our customers. Some of the key initiatives the Company continues to execute include: Working safely and effectively with new and existing customers to continue to provide our products and services through the pandemic Continuing to enhance and modify our safety protocols for our employees Adjusting business operations to address circumstances created by COVID-19 Maintaining effective governance and internal controls in a remote work environment As the pandemic continues, we may revise our approach to these initiatives or take additional actions to meet the needs of our employees, customers and the Company and to continue to provide our products and services. Revenues We generate most of our revenues on a per transaction or subscription basis, which is derived from contracts that extend up to 60 months from execution. The future success of our business depends on the continued growth of Business-to-Business and Business-to-Business-to-Consumer driving customer transactions, and continued expansion of our platforms into the TMT Market globally through Cloud, Messaging and Digital markets. As such, the volume of transactions and our ability to expand our footprint in TMT and globally may result in revenue fluctuations on a quarterly basis. Most of our revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars but as we continue to expand our footprint with international carriers, we will become subject to currency translation that could affect our future net sales as reported in U.S. dollars. Our top five customers accounted for 69.2% and 69.0% of net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 and September 30, 2020, respectively. Contracts with these customers typically run for three to five years. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2021 and 2020. The loss of Verizon as a customer would have a material negative impact on our company. However, we believe that the costs incurred and subscriber disruption by Verizon to replace Synchronoss solutions would be substantial. Current Trends Affecting Our Results of Operations As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, we are actively monitoring the global situation. The extent of the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on certain developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, impact on our customers and our sales cycles, impact on our business operations, impact on our customer, employee or industry events, and effect on our vendors, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact our business, financial condition or results of operations is uncertain, but may include, without limitation, impacts to our paying user growth as well as disrup tions to our business operations as a result of travel restrictions, shutdown of workplaces and potential impacts to our vendors. Additionally, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, as well as changes in interest rates. Volatile market conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic have and may continue to negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows, due to a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which may cause our revenues to decline relative to our costs. Business from our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution has been driven by the growth in mobile devices globally that are becoming content rich. As these devices replace other traditional devices like PCs, the ability to securely back up content from mobile devices, sync it with other devices and share it with family, friends and business associates have become essential needs and subscriber expectations. Such devices include smartphones, connected cars, personal health and wellness devices and 33 Table of Contents connected home devices. The need for the contents of these devices to be stored in a common cloud are also expected to be drivers of our business in the longer term. Business from our traditional Synchronoss Messaging business (Email) has been driven by a resurgence in the need for white label secure messaging platforms that favor the Mobile Network Operators (MNO) business objectives and are not beholden to the objectives of a sponsoring over-the-top (OTT) platform. We believe that messaging drives higher subscriber engagement than any other application in the market today and holds the potential to stimulate new revenue from traditional services and third-party brands. OTT global success has driven MNOs to look at opportunities to preempt and compete with the OTTs which has potential opportunity for Synchronoss future growth to be driven by the need of TMT companies including (and especially) MNOs to embrace Messaging as a Platform (MaaP). MaaP will allow TMT and MNOs to converse with subscribers in an efficient, automated way by streamlining the costs and increasing the effectiveness of self-care, as well as yielding cross-sell upselling of service plans, devices, bundles, etc. The Synchronoss Advanced Messaging Platform provides state of the art RCS-driven features including the ability to support advanced Peer to Peer communications and introduce new revenue streams driven by commerce and advertising via Application-to-Person capabilities. Companies in the TMT market all face the dilemma of attempting to pivot their businesses to digital execution in order to create experiences that meet the expectations of their subscribers, generate new revenues and streamline costs creating healthier margins at a faster time to market than they have ever operated before. Their challenges feature the lack of skill sets to conceptualize and run day to day digital operations and the lack of resources to integrate their legacy back end systems to enact digital experiences that achieve their business objectives. The growth of Synchronoss Digital Platforms will be driven by the ability to provide TMT companies desire to obtain digital transformation solutions as quickly as possible while educating them on the ability to operate a digital business efficiently. Our Platform as a Service (PaaS) model provides a desirable alternative to heavy capital expenditure spending options often tried internally. The ability for our platforms to create low/no code, new customer digital journeys, virtually on the fly, gives TMT Companies the ability to operate new experiences and businesses without heavily investing in development resources. To support our growth, which we expect to be driven by these favorable industry trends mentioned above, we will leverage modular components from our existing software platforms to build new products. We believe that these opportunities will continue to provide future benefits and position us for future revenue growth. We are also making investments in research and development of new products designed to enable us to grow rapidly in the mobile wireless market. Our purchase of capital assets and equipment may also increase based on aggressive deployment, subscriber growth and promotional offers for free or bundled storage by our major Tier 1 carrier customers. We continue to expand our platforms into the converging TMT, MNO, and Digital spaces to enable connected devices to do more things across multiple networks, brands and communities. Our initiatives with our customers continue to grow both with regard to our current business as well as our new product offerings. We are also exploring additional opportunities to support our customer, product and geographic diversification strategies. 34 Table of Contents Discussion of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 $ Change 2021 2020 2021 vs 2020 Net revenues $ 69,753 $ 68,636 $ 1,117 Cost of revenues 1 27,245 28,452 (1,207) Research and development 15,368 20,885 (5,517) Selling, general and administrative 27,953 23,265 4,688 Restructuring charges 1,485 820 665 Depreciation and amortization 8,215 12,212 (3,997) Total costs and expenses 80,266 85,634 (5,368) Loss from continuing operations $ (10,513) $ (16,998) $ 6,485 ________________________________ 1 Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. Net revenues increased $1.1 million to $69.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The increase in revenue is primarily driven by growth in cloud subscribers and new digital license sales partially offset by non-recurring advanced messaging deals in the prior period. Cost of revenues decreased $1.2 million to $27.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The 2021 decrease was primarily attributable to continued efforts to streamline our business operations and reduce costs. Research and development expense decreased $5.5 million to $15.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. T he research and development costs decreased year over year mainly as a result of executed cost savings initiatives to streamline our workforce and reduce vendor spend. Selling, general and administrative expense increased $4.7 million to $28.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. Our selling, general and administrative expense excluding legal reserves decreased period over period as a result of the continued cost savings initiatives executed in year which included headcount reductions, reduced vendor spending and lower facility costs. Restructuring charges were $1.5 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated in the current year to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.0 million to $8.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The 2021 decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of amortizable acquired assets in combination with reduced capital expenditures mainly as a result of the data center consolidation project and efforts to streamline business operations, partially offset by the increased amortization of capitalized software. Income tax. The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $7.0 million and $8.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 46.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2021, which was higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to discrete income tax benefit recorded in the current quarter associated with the finalization of the Companys U.S. federal income tax return, which reflected a net operating loss that was carried back to prior tax years. Based on the final carryback claim, the Company recorded a discrete income tax benefit of $7.4 million and discrete income tax expense related to a liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $2.1 million, all of which, if recognized, would impact our effective tax rate. This increase was partially offset 35 Table of Contents by pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded, pre-tax losses in jurisdictions which have a zero tax rate, and certain foreign jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately 60.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2020, which was higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the Companys ability to recognize certain loss carrybacks as a result of the enactment of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) in the first quarter of 2020, the impact of the redemption of the Companys interest in STIN and valuation allowances recorded in domestic and foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by the impact of permanent book-tax differences. Discussion of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Nine months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, $ Change 2021 2020 2021 vs 2020 Net revenues $ 206,784 $ 222,293 $ (15,509) Cost of revenues 1 83,024 93,403 (10,379) Research and development 49,962 59,769 (9,807) Selling, general and administrative 67,790 74,249 (6,459) Restructuring charges 3,075 6,763 (3,688) Depreciation and amortization 26,567 33,852 (7,285) Total costs and expenses 230,418 268,036 (37,618) Loss from continuing operations $ (23,634) $ (45,743) $ 22,109 ________________________________ 1 Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. Net revenues decreased $15.5 million to $206.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The decrease in revenue is primarily attributable to non-recurring license sales and one-time professional services in the prior period and the accounting treatment of deferred revenue due to a customer renewal as per ASC 606, which was signed in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. These changes were partially offset by growth in cloud subscribers and the acceleration of subscription revenue from the dissolution of a previous customer. Cost of revenues decreased $10.4 million to $83.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The 2021 decrease was primarily due to continued efforts to streamline operations and reduce costs. These initiatives resulted in a significant decrease in cost of revenues driven mainly by data center consolidation, reduced vendor spending, and operating expense savings. Research and development expense decreased $9.8 million to $50.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. T he research and development costs decreased year over year mainly as a result of executed cost savings initiatives to streamline our workforce and reduce vendor spend. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $6.5 million to $67.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The 2021 decrease was primarily driven by cost savings initiatives that resulted in a decrease in employee costs, facilities, and external costs related to outside consultants and legal fees. Restructuring charges decreased $3.7 million to $3.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, which primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated in the current year to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $7.3 million to $26.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. The 2021 decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of amortizable 36 Table of Contents acquired assets in combination with reduced capital expenditures mainly as a result of the data center consolidation project and efforts to streamline business operations, partially offset by the increased amortization of capitalized software. Income tax. The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $7.3 million and $29.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 24.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, which was higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to discrete income tax benefit recorded in the current quarter associated with the finalization of the Companys U.S. federal income tax return, which reflected a net operating loss that was carried back to prior tax years. Based on the final carryback claim, the Company recorded a discrete income tax benefit of $7.4 million and discrete income tax expense related to a liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $2.1 million, all of which, if recognized, would impact our effective tax rate. This increase was partially offset by pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded, pre-tax losses in jurisdictions which have a zero tax rate, and certain foreign jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately 75.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, which was higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the Companys ability to recognize certain loss carrybacks as a result of the enactment of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) in the first quarter 2020, the impact of the redemption of the Companys interest in STIN and valuation allowances recorded in domestic and foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by the impact of permanent book-tax differences. The Company continues to consider all available evidence, including historical profitability and projections of future taxable income together with new evidence, both positive and negative, that could affect the view of the future realization of deferred tax assets. As a result of the assessment, no change was recorded by the Company to the valuation allowance during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash provided by operations and the remaining proceeds from the financing transactions. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $24.1 million at September 30, 2021. We anticipate that our principal uses of cash and cash equivalents will be to fund our business, including technology expansion and working capital. At September 30, 2021, our non-U.S. subsidiaries held approximately $9.0 million of cash and cash equivalents that are available for use by our operations around the world. At this time, we believe the funds held by all non-U.S. subsidiaries will be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. However, if these funds were repatriated to the U.S. or used for U.S. operations, certain amounts could be subject to U.S. tax for the incremental amount in excess of the foreign tax paid. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of these earnings, if any, it is not practical to determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the amount. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, financing sources, and our ability to manage working capital and expected positive cash flows generated from operations in combination with continued expense reductions will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the filing date of this Form 10-Q based on our current business plans. However, as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and our operations evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. Given the economic uncertainty as a result of the pandemic, we have taken actions to improve our current liquidity position, including, reducing working capital, reducing operating costs and substantially reducing discretionary spending. Even with these actions however, an extended period of economic disruption as a result of the continued global impact of COVID-19 could materially affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet debt covenants, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition. Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of this MD&A and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, some of which are outside of our control. Redemption of Series A Preferred Stock The net proceeds from our public offering of common stock, Senior Note offering and the Series B Preferred Stock transaction was used in part to fully redeem all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock on June 30, 2021 (the Redemption). For further details, see Note 7. Debt and Note 9. Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. 37 Table of Contents Series B Preferred Stock On June 30, 2021, we closed a private placement of 75,000 shares of or Series B Preferred Stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $75.0 million. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, on each share of Series B Preferred Stock on a quarterly basis, an amount equal to the dividend rate, as described in the following sentence, divided by four and multiplied by the then-applicable Liquidation Preference (as defined in the Series B Certificate) per share of Series B Preferred Stock (collectively, the Preferred Dividends). The dividend rate is (1) 9.5% per annum for the period commencing on June 30, 2021 and ending on and including December 31, 2021, (2) 13% per annum for the year commencing on January 1, 2022 and ending on and including December 31, 2022; and (3) 14% per annum for the year commencing on January 1, 2023 and thereafter. The Preferred Dividends will be due in cash on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year (each, a Series B Dividend Payment Date). The Company may choose to pay the Series B Preferred Dividends in cash or in additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock. In the event Synchronoss does not declare and pay a dividend in cash on any Series B Dividend Payment Date, the unpaid amount of the Preferred Dividend will be added to the Liquidation Preference. On and after the fifth anniversary of the date of issuance, holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock will have the right to cause Synchronoss to redeem each share of Series B Preferred Stock for cash in an amount equal to the sum of the current liquidation preference and any accrued dividends. Each share of Series B Preferred Stock will also be redeemable at the option of the holder upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change (as that term is defined in the Series B Certificate) at (i) par in the case of a payment in cash or (ii) 1.5 times par in the case of payment in shares of Common Stock (such shares being, Registrable Securities), subject to certain limitations on the amount of stock that could be issued to the holders of Series B Stock. In addition, the Company will be permitted to redeem outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock at any time for the sum of the then-applicable Liquidation Preference and the accrued but unpaid dividends. Pursuant to the Series B Certificate, Synchronoss will be required to use (i) the first proceeds $50.0 million of proceeds from certain transactions (i.e., disposition, sale of assets, tax refunds) received by the Company to redeem for cash, shares of Series B Preferred Stock, on a pro rata basis among each holder of Series B Preferred Stock and (ii) the next $25.0 million of proceeds from certain transactions received by the Company may be used by the Company to buy back shares of Common Stock, and to the extent, not used for such purpose by the Company, to redeem, for cash, shares of Series B Preferred Stock, on a pro rata basis among each holder of Series B Preferred Stock. Revolving Credit Facility We repaid in full and closed our Revolving Credit Facility as of June 30, 2021. For further details, see Note 7. Debt of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Shelf Registration Statement On August 19, 2020, the Company filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the issuance of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, warrants and units up to an aggregate amount of $250.0 million (the 2020 Shelf Registration Statement). On August 28, 2020, the 2020 Shelf Registration Statement was declared effectiv e by the SEC. As of September 30, 2021, except for the Common Stock offering and the issuance of Senior Notes, the Company has not raised additional capital using the 2020 Shelf Registration Statement. Offering of Additional Senior Notes On October 25, 2021, the Company entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the Sales Agreement) between the Company and B. Riley Securities, Inc. (the Agent), pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell, from time to time, up to $18.0 million of the Companys 8.375% Senior Notes due 2026. The up to $18.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the additional Senior Notes that the Company may offer and sell under the prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus constitutes a further issuance of and are fungible with the $125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes that the Company has issued to date, and form a single series of debt securities. 38 Table of Contents Discussion of Cash Flows A summary of net cash flows follows (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2021 2020 2021 vs 2020 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 5,551 $ 8,661 $ (3,110) Investing activities (17,840) (11,406) (6,434) Financing activities 2,687 9,991 (7,304) Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are personnel and related costs, telecommunications and facility costs related primarily to our cost of revenue and general operating expenses including professional service fees, consulting fees, building and equipment maintenance and marketing expense. Cash flows from operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was $5.6 million cash provided by operating activities, as compared to $8.7 million of cash provided by operating activities for the same period in 2020. Excluding the effects of the tax refunds received in the prior period, cash provided by operations increased from the prior year as a result of our continued efforts to streamline our business operations and reduce costs and favorable working capital changes. Cash flows from investing for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was $17.8 million cash used in investing, as compared to $11.4 million in cash used in investing activities during the same period in 2020. The cash used for investing in the current year was primarily related to the purchase of fixed assets and investment in capitalized software. The net decrease in cash used for investing in the prior year was primarily related to the investment in capitalized software offset by the sale of certain IP address assets. Cash flows from financing for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was $2.7 million of cash provided, as compared to $10.0 million of cash provided by financing activities for the same period in 2020. In 2021, the net proceeds from our public offering of common stock, Senior Note offering and Series B Preferred Stock transaction was primarily used to fully redeem all outstanding shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock and repay and close the Revolving Credit Facility on June 30, 2021. The cash provided from financing activities in the prior year was attributable to the drawdown from our Revolving Credit Facility. Effect of Inflation While inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as occupancy, labor and benefits, and general administrative costs, have an impact on our operating results, inflation has had minimal net effect on our results of operations during the three or nine months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be affected by general inflation in the future. 39 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of contingent consideration, office equipment and colocation services and contractual commitments under third-party hosting, software licenses and maintenance agreements. The following table summarizes our long-term contractual obligations as of September 30, 2021 (in thousands). Payments Due by Period Total 2021 2022-2024 2025-2026 Thereafter Capital lease obligations $ 738 $ 65 $ 599 $ 74 $ Operating lease obligations 57,460 2,975 27,730 16,213 10,542 Purchase obligations 1 63,020 4,788 48,533 9,699 Senior Note Payable 125,000 125,000 Total $ 247,963 $ 9,573 $ 76,862 $ 150,986 $ 10,542 _______________________________ 1 Amount represents obligations associated with colocation agreements and other customer delivery related purchase obligations. Uncertain Tax Positions Unrecognized tax positions of $4.6 million at September 30, 2021 are excluded from the table above as we are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We anticipate that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $0.6 million over the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to utilize accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a fiscal period. The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to a companys financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. These estimates and assumptions take into account historical and forward looking factors that the Company believes are reasonable, including but not limited to the potential impacts continuing to arise from COVID-19 and public and private sector policies and initiatives aimed at reducing its transmission. As the extent and duration of the impacts from COVID-19 remain unclear, the Companys estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making these estimates, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q for certain matters bearing risks on our future results of operations. During the nine months ended September 30, 2021, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards see Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation included in Part I, Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 40 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.