Managements Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K. We also encourage you to read Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors, which contains a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. In addition to the risks described in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, other unknown or unpredictable factors also could affect our results. Therefore, the information in this Form 10-K should be read together with other reports and documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, which may supplement, modify, supersede or update those risk factors. Synchronoss expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Synchronoss expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. This Form 10-K includes industry and market data that we obtained from periodic industry publications, third-party studies and surveys, filings of public companies in our industry and internal company surveys. These sources include government and industry sources. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. Although we believe the industry and market data incorporated into this Form 10-K to be reliable, this information could prove to be inaccurate. Industry and market data could be wrong because of the method by which sources obtained their data and because information cannot always be verified with complete certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. In addition, we do not know all of the assumptions regarding general economic conditions or growth that were used in preparing the forecasts from the sources relied upon or cited herein. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Synchronoss is a leading provider of white label cloud, messaging, digital and network management solutions that enable our customers to keep subscribers, systems, networks and content in sync. We help our customers to connect, engage and monetize subscribers in more meaningful ways by providing trusted platforms through which end users can sync and store content and connect with one another and the brands they love. Our mission is to help our customers create new revenue streams, reduce the cost of innovation, and captivate their subscribers. Our core product sets allow our customers to create a positive experience throughout their subscribers lifecycle by engaging, onboarding and managing the network to ensure reliable service. ENGAGE: Personal Cloud: Backup, manage and engage with content. A dvanced Messaging: multi-channel messaging, peer-to-peer (P2P) communications and application-to-person (A2P) commerce solutions. Email Suite: White label consumer email solutions. 4 Table of Contents ONBOARD: Backup and Restore: Backup, view and restore subscriber content across operating systems and devices. Out of Box Experience: Streamline the activation of new services and devices. Content Transfer: Effortlessly move content between mobile devices. Digital Experience Platform: Customer journey and workflow design, development, orchestration and experience management. NETWORK: Total Network Management (TNM) : integrated application suite that designs, procures, manages and optimizes telecom network infrastructure. Who We Serve At Synchronoss we focus on delivering carrier-grade solutions to three markets globally: communications service providers/ multi-service operators (such as cable and mobile network operators), mobile insurance providers and retailers. We help our customers accelerate and monetize value-add services to drive growth, facilitate retention and enable differentiated experiences. Communications service providers, multi-service operators and mobile insurance providers market white-label implementations of our Synchronoss Personal Cloud, Advanced Messaging and email products and solutions to their subscribers around the world. Our customers market and re-sell the services powered by our technology to their subscribers as part of stand-alone subscriptions, value-added bundles, or use Personal Cloud to enhance their service offerings to subscribers who purchase and lease mobile devices and network connectivity by providing an easy solution for storing and syncing user generated content (e.g., videos, photos, documents, contacts, music etc.). Additionally, they license Synchronoss Advanced Messaging and Email to enable white label multichannel messaging services including advanced person-to-person (P2P) and application-to-person (A2P) transactions and to offer brand/advertiser ecosystems. Communications service providers and multi-service operators use our Onboard and Network solutions to enhance their subscriber journeys and onboarding and to streamline their internal processes. Our customers include global service providers such as AT&T, BT, Verizon, Vodafone, Softbank and multi-service operators like Comcast, Altice, Charter and Mediacom. These customers utilize our solutions to service both consumer and enterprise customers. How We Go to Market We market our solutions and services directly through our sales organizations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Sales We sell our solutions, products, and services through a direct sales force, with strategic partners and in collaboration with our customers to resell services to their end customers and subscribers. Our sales professionals are well versed in our platforms, products and services with an understanding of market trends, demands and conditions that our current and potential customers are facing. Marketing The Synchronoss marketing teams mission is to deliver the right strategy, tools, and customer acquisition initiatives to accelerate our growth. The team uses a combination of product specific and company-wide marketing messages and initiatives that leverage digital marketing campaigns, sales support materials, social media, and PR to generate top of the funnel business-to-business (B2B) sales leads for the sales team. As a result, they play a vital role in promoting our products, discovering new markets, and driving brand awareness in the North America, EMEA, and APAC regions. The Marketing team also supports our customers direct-to-consumer (D2C) marketing efforts for all global cloud deployments. In partnership with our customers, our go-to-market and awareness campaigns consist of a digitally-led omnichannel approach at critical moments in the subscribers purchase lifecycle; including online checkout, retail transactions, customer care interactions, out-of-box setup experiences, and in-app notifications for devices that have our cloud app preloaded. 5 Table of Contents What We Deliver - Our Platforms The Synchronoss Experience (syncX) is a collection of products that help our customers create a positive brand experience throughout the subscriber lifecycle. SyncX keeps people, systems, networks, and content in sync to enable a better, more engaging experience. EngageX products keep subscribers engaged with brands, content and people they love. When loyalty and revenue is won and lost through every experience, it is critical to offer value added services subscribers love. Our Cloud and Messaging experiences grow, inspire, and build loyalty with our customers subscriber base. Synchronoss Personal Cloud Platform The Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution is designed to create an engaging and trusted customer experience through ongoing content management and engagement. The Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is a secure and highly scalable, white label platform that allows our customers subscribers to backup and protect, engage with, and manage their personal content and gives our operator customers the ability to increase average revenue per user (ARPU) and reduce churn. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is specifically designed to support smartphones, tablets, desktops computers, laptops, wearables for health and wellness, cameras, TVs, security cameras, routers, as well as connected automobiles and homes. Messaging Platform Synchronoss Messaging Platform powers mobile messaging and mailboxes for hundreds of millions of telecommunication subscribers. Our Advanced Messaging platform is a powerful, secure , intelligent, white-label messaging platform that expands capabilities for communications service provider and multi-service providers to offer P2P messaging via Rich Communications Services (RCS). Our Mobile Messaging Platform (MMP) is poised to provide a single standard ecosystem for onboarding and management to brands, advertisers and message wholesalers. Advanced Messaging: Our Advanced Messaging platform supports rich messaging channel in both RCS and other Real-Time Communication (RTC) and enables rich, P2P communications and creates new commerce and revenue opportunities across channels via A2P experiences for our customers and other brands. Our messaging platform operates in tandem with Messaging-as-a-Platform (MaaP) Messaging Marketplace as well as dedicated, third-party clients and native original equipment manufacturer (OEM) clients, providing an end-to-end messaging platform and monetization tools to the operators, Communications Platform as a Service (CpaaS) players and brands. E-Mail: Our Email suite provides service providers with a secure, white-label, back-end framework for a branded email service that provides the opportunity to introduce and promote services that can be monetized. Our carrier branded Email Suite solution offers leading anti-virus and anti-spam and malware technology to keep the integrity and security of the customer experience and protection of subscriber data to carrier standards. Our Email solution is an important repository for critical communications with an intuitive and feature-rich mobile and desktop email experience ensuring stickiness and increasing customer lifetime value. OnboardX products simplify subscriber onboarding and drive service adoption at scale . The first impression of a new product or service can either make or break your subscriber relationship. A poor onboarding experience leads to revenue losses and customers feeling stranded. Our customizable service activation, content backup, and device setup experiences make onboarding frictionless. Mobile Content Transfer : Our Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer solution is an easy-to-use product whose client enables a secure, peer-to-peer, wireless transfer of content from one mobile smart device to another in a carrier retail location or at home/work, etc. Our solution can transfer select data classes that may include photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts, and call logs, across operating systems including iOS and Android. 6 Table of Contents Backup & Transfer : Our Synchronoss Backup & Transfer solution is a variation of Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer that offers the same peer-to-peer transfer of select data classes across smart mobile devices and major operating systems and also offers the ability to send supported data classes that may include photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts and call logs up to the cloud for temporary storage and then restore the content back into the new device or to a new device with the same client. Out of Box Experience: Our Synchronoss Out of Box Experience solution is a device setup solution that assists customers in setting up the features of their new device, including Wi-Fi, email, social network accounts and voicemail, as well as prompting restoration of content and enrollment in a cloud service. It also offers the ability to highlight programs and revenue generating initiatives during the setup process, such as loyalty programs, third-party partnerships and value-added services. Digital Experience Platform (DXP) The Synchronoss DXP is a suite of technology, tools and solutions that includes digital experience creation and management, automated provisioning, artificial intelligence and financial analytics that service a broad swatch of our target markets. By equipping our customers with a toolkit of capabilities, they can design, deploy and manage end user customer journeys and workflows easily and quickly from one central platform that also integrates across front end customer engagement channels as well as enterprise business systems (e.g. CRM, POS) allowing non-citizen developers to configure rather than code experiences. The platform sits between customer-facing touch points and a customers existing back-office systems to orchestrate data, workflows and processes into digital customer journeys that interface with end user channels creating user experiences that can be centrally managed and coordinated with less resources than is typical in a traditional IT environment. Our Digital Activation Module is powered by DXP and allows Operators and indirect mobility resellers to activate mobility plans with carriers without large, dedicated teams and affords flexibility at a fraction of the cost and time to go to market. NetworkX products streamline networks to be more efficient and profitable. In a world where subscribers expect seamless connectivity and zero network interruptions, delivering superior network quality can be complex and costly. Our physical network asset management, off-network procurement, and expense control solutions reduce the complexity and cost of network management. Total Network Management The Synchronoss Total Network Management products provide operators with the tools and software to design their physical network, streamline their infrastructure purchases, and manage and optimize comprehensive network expense for leading top tier carriers around the globe. spatialSUITE: Our spatialSUITE provides enterprise-wide access to timely, accurate, and comprehensive network information including physical location, specifications, attributes, connectivity and capacity for every inside-plant and outside-plant asset. It delivers data across the enterprise to support provisioning, planning and design, construction, fault and event management, work order management, customer service, marketing and other critical business functions. The automation and ease of integration of our platform is designed to enable our customers to lower the cost of new subscriber acquisitions and enhance the accuracy and reliability of customer transactions. Interconnect NOW (iNOW): Our iNOW provisioning system eliminates manual handling of service orders and manages the full order lifecycle between customer and supplier via automation and rules-based validation. iNOW includes an interface that powers bulk provisioning needs and an open API to seamlessly integrate to other carrier systems. iNOW also provides an electronically bonded gateway platform enabling rapid electronic order confirmations and status updates between bonded carriers. Finally, completed order information flows to Financial Analytics providing integrated and automated order to billing reconciliation functionality. Financial Analytics: Our Financial Analytics Platform is a comprehensive application suite that helps operators reduce costs, mitigate risks, enforce financial compliance and controls, and increase operational efficiencies. Financial Analytics ingests any supplier invoice (in any format) through a unique software-driven process with 100% of the detail. Invoices are managed via automated audit and payment workflow tightly coupled with a software driven dispute management lifecycle, providing a true procurement-to-payment process on network expenses and disputes across a carriers organization. 7 Table of Contents What We Deliver - Our Services Synchronoss offers professional services including consulting, installation and deployment, configuration, customization, systems integration and support to ensure our customers successful deployment and utilization of our products and solutions. Product Development At Synchronoss we have focused our product development efforts on expanding the functionality, scalability and security of our products and solutions. We expect our research and development investments to increase as we intend to continue on an aggressive path to develop new features and functionality, upgrade and extend our product offerings and develop new technology. Intellectual Property We rely principally on a combination of trademark, copyright and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, which protect our proprietary information, technologies and strategies. We also cultivate a culture which encourages creativity and innovation amongst our employees by maintaining a patent award program, hosting events such as an annual Innovation Jam and periodic hackathons. We believe this facilitates the development of new features and functionality and products, which are essential to establishing our solutions as the leading solutions in the industry. We enter into proprietary information and invention agreements with all of our employees and consultants during the onboarding process and non-disclosure agreements with all third parties. In the United States, as of December 31, 2021 we had 90 patents issued and 11 patents pending. Internationally, as of December 31, 2021 we had 80 patents issued and 4 pending. We hold and/or are pursuing patents in the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Spain and we may seek additional jurisdictions to the extent we determine such coverage is appropriate and cost efficient. Our issued patents cover all aspects of our business including cloud, activation, messaging, DXP, ecommerce, and security. Demand Drivers for Our Business In 2022 and beyond, the potential for 5G will require service providers to foster innovation and collaboration to extend the 5G benefits to the consumer. Service providers have an opportunity to capture a sizable share of consumer revenues transactions that will occur over 5G networks. According to Ericsson, 5G technology underpins nearly $31 trillion in cumulative consumer revenues flowing to the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) industry by 2030. Ericsson also forecasts that there will be 1.9 billion 5G cellular subscriptions by 2024, and with the expansion of networks and connectivity, consumer value-added services (VAS) and network and expense management solutions will gain even further traction. During the 3G/4G era, the primary use cases were quickly established, and service providers left the door open for over-the-top (OTT) providers to capture a large share of the consumer spend. Today, 5G use cases are still being explored and trialed. Its critical for service providers to play a more assertive role in the digital services value chain through innovation and strategic partnerships. According to Market Research Future, Mobile Value-Added-Services are set to hit $309.1 billion by 2025. The transition to 5G provides an opportunity to strengthen their position in the consumer market and function as a service enabler by bundling VAS into premium offers. Service providers should also become service creators by developing new, immersive products under their own brand. In either case (branded and partner services) powering digital bundles and simplifying onboarding, consumption, billing, and authentication of VAS will drive higher adoption of premium 5G service plans and ARPU. 5G will also usher in many more connected device types. In fact, according to the Deloitte 2021 Connectivity and Mobile Trends Survey, the average US household has 25 connected devices across 14 categories, up from 11 categories when last measured in 2019. In addition, the number of connected devices globally is estimated to reach 38.6 billion in 2025, up from 22 billion in 2018. More devices will lead to more vulnerabilities around privacy, data, and hardware protection. Consumers have made it clear; they want to understand and feel confident about how their data is being used. Service providers have proven themselves true stewards of consumer data protection and privacy, and therefore differentiated as the market continues to develop. As the provider of both the mobile network and fixed wireless connectivity, service providers are uniquely positioned to become the trusted end-to-end solution of total protection services for subscribers both at home and on the go. The consumer 8 Table of Contents demand around personal cloud data protection, hardware insurance, home and network security will allow service providers to capitalize on their trusted relationship with consumers. We believe our white label Personal Cloud platform will help service providers accelerate the adoption of 5G service and total protection plans. The next generation Personal Cloud will give operators a new way to create, deliver, engage, and monetize more personalized experiences and offers for their subscribers. When operators have millions of active users leveraging cloud, it becomes a channel for cross selling security services, insurance, merchandise like prints & gifts, and other carrier services, leading to a significant increase in ARPU. As a result, were fostering new partnerships, building exciting new capabilities, and now enabling subscribers to protect the home. Giving subscribers the ability protect hardware investments with insurance plans, their family from cyber threats with network-based security services, and their personal content with cloud will differentiate the value proposition of 5G service plans and deliver significant brand value for our customers. Competition Competition across our markets is incredibly diverse, dynamic and nuanced in an increasingly interconnected landscape of rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, new product introductions and converging spaces and services. We face the following categories of competitors: Personal Cloud OTT Service & Platform Providers - Apple, Google, Dropbox, Box, Microsoft and Amazon all provide personal cloud services closely integrated to their respective technology or service platforms; however, Synchronoss differentiates from these OTT Service and Platform Providers by offering operator-grade white label solutions. White Label Platform Providers - The field of platform-independent, white label personal cloud providers has consolidated in recent years with Funambol and others competing for Operator distribution deals. However, these providers target second and third tier regional operators with low-risk, revenue share business models and do not generally pose a real threat to Tier 1 world-wide Operators. Messaging The emerging RCS marketplace is intensely competitive across the globe. Leading OTT device and OS platform providers led by Google and Samsung, along with prominent online platform providers such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, WeChat and LINE have created a radically new market for communication and monetization that is turning messaging into a new, virtual OS. Digital Products System Integrators Accenture and Amdocs engage telecommunication customers in long term contracts for services focused on digital transformation. These two organizations have large consulting teams and various digital products focused on the Communication Service Provider (CSP) vertical, and each of these products typically has a service integration contract attached. Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Business Process Management (BPM) Providers Salesforce / Vlocity have created a CRM platform and marketplace that offers digital workflow management add-ons, both direct and via 3 rd party apps. Pega Systems is built on a work-flow management engine, and they surround their core product with customer experience apps and capabilities, albeit in a more closed ecosystem. Telecom Expense Management (TEM) Providers TEOCO and Tangoe are two major providers that offer wholesale and retail TEM software and services. Each of these vendors have large customers/contracts to better account, reconcile and pay out on vendor contracts, network circuits, roaming agreements and other complex expense areas. Telecom Service Order Management Providers Neustar supports major providers with software that handles the full order lifecycle of telecommunications service orders. Order management applications and processes developed/utilized by Operators also present competition. Geospatial Network Planning Providers Major providers of software that manage the planning and design of physical communication networks include Bentley, GE Smallworld, and 3-GIS. To compete against global platform providers, we offer a collection of products that help keep subscribers, systems, networks, and content in sync to enable a better, more engaging experience. Our white label products enable subscribers to connect with one another, the networks they rely on, the brands they love and the services they need. We believe we compete 9 Table of Contents favorably through our differentiated product capabilities, vast reach across global markets, and our 20+ years of experience building carrier grade solutions that are proven to scale. Compliance and Certifications We obtain third-party reviews of our controls relating to security. Our Synchronoss white label Personal Cloud has been certified to be compliant with the Service Organization Controls (SOC) 2 type II audit that tests the design and operating effectiveness of controls over time. An independent auditor tests these controls annually and addresses, among other areas, the environmental and physical safeguards for production data centers, legal controls, change management and logical security. In addition, our Financial Analytics hosted solution is certified to be compliant with a SOC 1 type II audit that tests the design and effectiveness of controls related to our customers use of this service in financial reporting. Additionally, we complete an independent assessment ensuring compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-DSS) for our DXP and activation products. The PCI-DSS standards focus on application and network security relating to the storage of credit card data on behalf of our customers. Finally, our operations in Bangalore are certified under ISO27000, ensuring best practices for information security management, and ISO9000, ensuring quality management. Human Capital At Synchronoss, we believe that our growth and success are attributable in large part to our diverse employee base and an experienced management team, with a mission to make Synchronoss a great place to work. We continue to invest in our employees, as well as developing and promoting our team-oriented culture, and believe that these efforts provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2021 we had 1,536 full-time employees located in India, North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific regions. None of our employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We have a purpose-driven culture, with a focus on employee input and well-being, which we believe enables us to attract and retain exceptional talent. We have moved to a flexible work policy, providing the majority of our employees the flexibility to work remotely from off-site locations at their election. We offer learning and development programs for all employees. Employees are able to actively voice their questions and thoughts through many internal channels, including our company town hall meetings and employee engagement surveys. With a continued focus on employee engagement, we formed a global Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) committee, laying the groundwork to embed DE&I as part of our corporate culture and pave the way for a more comprehensive program. We took initial steps in this space through formal trainings, employee communications, and updating our technology terminology to ensure that the language we use is inclusive, aligned with industry best practices, and compatible with our DE&I philosophy. More recently, we launched a series of employee initiatives, SyncSmiles, SyncCheers, and Coffee Talks, designed to strengthen employee morale, with more to come in this area. From a total rewards perspective, Synchronoss offers a competitive compensation and benefits package, which we review and update each year. Our annual compensation planning coincides with our feedback cycle where employees and managers have performance conversations to facilitate learning and career development. As part of our compensation review program, we conduct pay equity analyses annually. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2000. Our principal offices are located at 200 Crossing Boulevard Bridgewater NJ. We completed our initial public offering in 2006, and our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SNCR and our Senior Notes as listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SNCRL. Available Information Our website is located at www.synchronoss.com and our investor relations website is located at www.synchronosstechnologiesinc.gcs-web.com . We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our 10 Table of Contents investor relations website. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Synchronoss and Synchronoss Personal Cloud and other trademarks of Synchronoss appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of Synchronoss. Other trademarks or service marks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Annual Report are referred to without the , and SM symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Operation Risks Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or future borrowings may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund liquidity needs or capital expenditures. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in our operating results due to certain factors make our future results difficult to predict. If we do not meet our revenue forecasts, we may be unable to avoid harm to our results of operations. A limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues. We are exposed to our customers credit risk. Political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in foreign currency transaction losses. The terms of existing and any new debt could restrict our ability to operate our business. We make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We must recruit and retain our key personnel and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees. We are subject to complex revenue recognition standards. Our performance and growth depend on our ability to generate customer referrals and develop customer relationships. Many of our products are complex and may contain defects that are detected only after deployment. Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Consolidation in the industries that we serve can reduce the number of actual and potential customers. Failures or interruptions of our systems and services could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to conduct our operations and damage relationships with our customers. Failure to meet our service level obligations or otherwise fail to offer quality support and services would subject us to penalties and we could lose customers. Our reliance on third-party providers exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. We may seek to acquire or make investments in companies or technologies which could disrupt our management, dilute our stockholders ownership, increase our debt, and adversely affect our business. Economic, political, market conditions and catastrophic events can adversely affect our business. Our insurance policies, including general liability, errors and omissions and cyber insurance, may not totally protect us. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business and Industry The financial and operating difficulties in the telecommunications sector, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic, may negatively affect our customers and our business. If we do not continue to improve our operational, financial and other internal controls and systems to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on the continued growth in demand for connected devices and the continued availability of high-speed access to the Internet. The SaaS pricing model is evolving and our failure to manage its evolution and demand could lead to lower than expected revenue and profit. Our business depends on businesses adopting our products and existing customers renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our services and any decline in these would harm our operating results. If we fail to (i) compete successfully with existing or new competitors, (ii) adapt to rapid technological change or achieve or (iii) sustain market acceptance of our services and solutions at desired pricing levels, we could lose customers or market share, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain or grow revenue. We rely on strategic relationships with third parties to sell and deliver our solutions and the compatibility of our services with third party applications that our customers use. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and exchange of certain information is subject to possible unfavorable changes. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy applicable to our customers or potential customers may decrease the demand for our solutions or increase our costs. Our expansion into new markets may be subject to uncertainties that could increase our costs to comply with foreign regulatory requirements, disrupt our operations and require increased focus from our management. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights and defend claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology. We collect, process, store and use personal information and other data, and our failure to protect this information and data could damage our reputation and brand and harm our business and operating results. Compliance with changing data protection and privacy laws could require us to incur significant costs or experience significant business disruption. Claims by other parties that we infringe their technology could harm our business. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services. As a result of being a public company, we continue to incur significant costs and devote management time to compliance initiatives. Changes in tax regulations could adversely affect our effective tax rates and if we are required to collect sales taxes on the services we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales. Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to our Series B Preferred Stock, Senior Notes and Common Stock Our stock price may continue to experience significant fluctuations and could subject us to litigation. Delaware law and provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, therefore depressing the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to investigations relating to certain transactions in 2015 and 2016 that resulted in the restatement of our financial statements in 2018, and the Securities and Exchange Commission staff has preliminarily determined to recommend the initiation of an enforcement action against us in connection with that matter. Downgrades in our credit ratings may increase our future borrowing costs, limit our ability to raise capital, cause our stock price to decline or reduce analyst coverage, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our current or future debt securities or preferred equity securities, which would be senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. B. Riley Financial, Inc. and its affiliates (BRF) have significant influence over us and may have conflicts of interest that arise out of future contractual relationships it or its affiliates may have with us. An active trading market for the Senior Notes may not develop, which could limit the market price of the Senior Notes or your ability to sell them. 12 Table of Contents Operation Risks Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or future borrowings which may not be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products which could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue or obtain enough capital to fund our planned capital expenditures, service our debt and execute on our business strategy. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than our leveraged competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products and enhancements to our platforms or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional capital , our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. In addition, the terms of any future issued equity securities could entitle the holders of those equity securities to rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Furthermore, if we engage in additional debt financings, the holders of debt might have priority over the holders of common stock, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, including restricting our ability to pay dividends or make certain other restricted payment, sell assets, make certain investments and grant liens, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, including limitations to our total leverage ratio, any of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things, (i) develop or enhance our products and platforms, (ii) acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses, (iii) expand operations in the United States or internationally or (iv) respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited which may also require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our activities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycles. Our customers businesses are relatively complex and their purchase of the types of services that we offer generally involve a significant financial commitment, with attendant delays, frequently associated with large financial commitments and procurement procedures within an organization. In addition, as we continue to further penetrate the enterprise, and the size and complexity of our sales opportunities continue to expand, we have seen an increase in the average length of time in our sales cycles. The purchase of the types of services that we offer typically requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customers organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, many of which are out of our control, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline, as it has in the past, on a year-over-year basis. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue. As a result, our 13 Table of Contents operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, non-GAAP metrics we may disclose, such as EBITDA, and any corresponding trends in such metrics should not be relied on as an indication that our GAAP results, such as income (loss), will be similar or will follow the same trends. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. If we do not meet our revenue forecasts, we may be unable to reduce our expenses in a timely fashion to avoid or minimize harm to our results of operations. Our revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly as we continue to implement our business strategy. We base our operating expense and capital investment budgets on expected sales and revenue trends, and many of our expenses, such as office and equipment leases and personnel costs, will be relatively fixed in the short term and will increase over time as we make investments in our business. Our estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into sales and actual revenues could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and those variations could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers contracts would adversely affect the overall level and timing of our revenues, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of many of our expenses, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. In the event we are unable to collect on our accounts receivable, it could negatively affect our cash flows, operating results and business. We traditionally have had substantial customer concentration, with a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial portion of our revenues. The Companys top five customers accounted for 68.2%, 68.0% and 69.2% of net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2021, 2020, and 2019. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products and services of these customers in the end-user marketplace. In addition, revenues from these larger customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions or other factors, some of which may be outside of our control. Further, some of our contracts with these larger customers permit them to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). If any of our major customers experience declining or delayed sales due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices we charge for our services or we could lose the customer. Any such development could have an adverse effect on our margins and financial position and would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock. We are exposed to our customers credit risk. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers, and customers with liquidity issues may lead to credit losses for us. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms between 45 and 60 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer payment terms in some markets outside the United States. We use various methods to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits, but these methods cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect this change. We maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. A decrease in accounts receivable resulting from an increase in bad debt expense could adversely affect our liquidity. Our exposure to credit 14 Table of Contents risks may increase if our customers are adversely affected by a difficult macroeconomic environment, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the economic environment. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance , especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, that these programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks or preventing us from incurring additional losses. Future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the current or future credit markets make it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries around the world. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. We also depend on, and many of our customers depend on, non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in orders during fiscal 2021 and certain prior periods. We continue to assess the sustainability of any improvements in these countries and there can be no assurance that our investments in these countries will be successful. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations inside and outside the United States, including impacts from global central bank monetary policy; issues related to the political relationship between the United States and other countries that can affect the willingness of customers in those countries to purchase products from companies headquartered in the United States; business interruptions resulting from regional or larger scale conflicts or geo-political actions; the impact of the COVID-19 or other public health epidemics or concerns on our customers component suppliers, and the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others things: Current or future supply chain interruptions; Foreign currency exchange rates; Political or social unrest; Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region, including the current economic or health challenges in China and global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties; Environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries; Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; Health or similar issues and the responses thereto, such as a pandemic or epidemic, including the COVID-19 pandemic and responses taken thereto; Natural disasters, terrorism, war or other military conflict, telecommunication and electrical failures; Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; or Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on our global operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in foreign currency transaction losses, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, given our international operations we currently have, and expect to have in the future, revenue and expenses and related assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency transaction exposure results primarily from transactions with customers or vendors denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity in which we record the transaction. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may positively or negatively affect our business and operating results. We face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates due to the fact that we have non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated revenue and positively affects the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated expenses. If foreign currencies were to weaken or strengthen relative to the U.S. dollar, we might elect to raise or lower our international pricing, which could potentially impact demand for our services. Alternatively, we might opt not to adjust our international pricing as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could potentially have a positive or negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, our financial performance may be impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates when it comes to our non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses. The third-party vendors and suppliers to whom we owe 15 Table of Contents payments for non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses may or may not decide to adjust their pricing to reflect fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If there continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, we will continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results due to revaluing our assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity that recorded the asset or liability, and the translation of our non-U.S. denominated revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars may affect the year-over-year comparability of our operating results. We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could have important consequences to investors. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes does not prohibit us from doing so. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the Senior Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with you in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization or dissolution. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to investors. Incurrence of additional debt would also further reduce the cash available to invest in operations, as a result of increased debt service obligations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because: it could affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the Senior Notes; a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations would have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; it may impair our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future; it may limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity; it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the Senior Notes, we could be in default on the Senior Notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on other indebtedness, to the extent outstanding. Conversely, a default under any other indebtedness, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the related agreement and entitle the holders thereof to bring suit for the enforcement thereof or exercise other remedies provided thereunder. In addition, such default or acceleration may result in an event of default and acceleration of other indebtedness of the Company, entitling the holders thereof to bring suit for the enforcement thereof or exercise other remedies provided thereunder. If a judgment is obtained by any such holders, such holders could seek to collect on such judgment from the assets of the Company. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. However, no event of default under the Senior Notes would result from a default or acceleration of, or suit, other exercise of remedies or collection proceeding by holders of, our other outstanding debt, if any. As a result, all or substantially all of our assets may be used to satisfy claims of holders of our other outstanding debt, if any, without the holders of the Senior Notes having any rights to such assets. We make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable or align with our company vision. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth, including expenditures to develop new services or enhance our existing services, enhance our operating infrastructure, market and sell our product offerings and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including failures to align new initiatives with our established corporate vision and direction, which could lead to a misapplication of our resources. These new investments are inherently risky and may involve distracting management from current operations, create greater than expected liabilities and expenses, provide us with an inadequate return on capital, include other unidentified risks and, ultimately, may generally not be successful. Further, our ability to effectively integrate new services and investments into our business may affect our profitability. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue and financial performance. 16 Table of Contents We must recruit and retain our key management and other key personnel and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that these individuals have established and maintain with our customers and within the industries in which we operate contribute to our ability to maintain good relations with our customers and others within those industries. The loss of any members of senior management or other key personnel could materially impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise effectively manage our business. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Further, in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel at times can be intense and as a result we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments and new product delivery objectives. If we are unable to maintain or expand our direct sales capabilities, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenues. In addition, if we are unable to maintain or expand our product development capabilities, we may not be able to meet our product development goals. Further, we rely on the expertise and experience of our senior management team. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, none of them or any of our other management personnel is obligated to remain employed by us. The loss of services of any key management personnel could lower productive output, interrupt our strategic vision and make it more difficult to pursue our business goals successfully. Our employee retention and hiring may be adversely impacted by immigration restrictions and related factors. Competition for skilled personnel is intense in our industry and any failure on our part to hire and retain appropriately skilled employees could harm our business. Our ability to hire and retain skilled employees is impacted, at least in part, by the fact that a portion of our professional workforce in the United States is comprised of foreign nationals who are not United States citizens. In order to be legally allowed to work for us, these individuals generally hold immigrant visas (which may or may not be tied to their employment with us) or green cards, the latter of which makes them permanent residents in the United States. The ability of these foreign nationals to remain and work in the United States is impacted by a variety of laws and regulations, as well as the processing procedures of various government agencies. Changes in applicable laws, regulations or procedures could adversely affect our ability to hire or retain these skilled employees and could affect our costs of doing business and our ability to deliver services to our customers. In addition, if the laws, rules or procedures governing the ability of foreign nationals to work in the United States were to change or if the number of visas available for foreign nationals permitted to work in the United States were to be reduced, our business could be adversely affected, if, for example, we were unable to hire or no longer able to retain a skilled worker who is a foreign national. Employing foreign nationals may require significant time and expense and our foreign national employees may choose to leave after we have made this investment. While a foreign national who is working under an immigrant visa tied to his or her employment by us may be less likely to choose to leave our Company than a similarly situated employee who is a United States national or a green card holder (as leaving our employ could mean also having to leave the United States), this may not always be the case. Additionally, many of our foreign national employees hold green cards, which means that they have greater flexibility to leave our Company without facing the risk of also having to leave the United States. We are subject to revenue recognitions standards and because we recognize revenue for certain products and services ratably over the term of customer agreements upturns or downturns in the value of signed contracts will not be fully and immediately reflected in our operating results and any changes in the standards could impact our business. We offer certain of our products and services primarily through fixed or variable commitment contracts and recognize revenue ratably over the related service period, which typically ranges from twelve to twenty-four months. As a result, some portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is revenue from contracts entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in signed contracts in any quarter will not be fully and immediately reflected in revenue for that quarter but may instead negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to offset this reduced revenue. Similarly, revenue attributable to an increase in contracts signed in a particular quarter will not be fully and immediately recognized, as revenue from new or renewed contracts is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. Because we incur certain sales costs at the time of sale, we may not recognize revenues from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales processes. Timing differences of this nature could cause our margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. As we introduce new services or products, revenue recognition could become 17 Table of Contents increasingly complex and require additional analysis and judgment. Additionally, for new contracts with existing customers, we may negotiate and revise previously used terms and conditions of our contracts with these customers and channel partners, which may also cause us to revise our revenue recognition policies. As our arrangements with customers change, we may be required to defer a greater portion of revenue into future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our performance and growth depend on our ability to generate customer referrals and to develop referenceable customer relationships that will enhance our sales and marketing efforts. A failure to accomplish these objectives could materially harm our business. In our business, we depend on end-users of our solutions to generate customer referrals for our services. We also depend on members of the communications industry, financial institutions, legal service providers and other third parties who use our services to recommend them to a larger customer base than we can reach through our direct sales and internal marketing efforts. These referrals are an important source of new customers for our services and generally are made without expectation of compensation. We intend to continue to focus our marketing efforts on these referral partners in order to expand our reach and improve the efficiency of our sales efforts. We also recognize that having respected, well known, market-leading customers who have committed to deploy our solutions within their organizations will support our marketing and sales efforts, as these customers can act as references for us and our product offerings. Our ability to establish and maintain these customer relationships is important to our future profitability. The willingness of these types of customers to provide referrals or serve as anchor or reference customers depends on a number of factors, including the performance, ease of use, reliability, reputation and cost-effectiveness of our services as compared to those offered by our competitors, as well as the internal policies of these customers. We may not be able to cultivate or maintain the relationships with customers that are necessary to develop those customer relationships into referenceable accounts. The loss of any of our significant referral sources, including our anchor customers, or a decline in the number of referrals we receive or anchor customers that we generate could require us to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our services, which would increase our costs, potentially lead to a decline in our revenue, slow our growth and generally have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the revenue we generate from our referral and anchor relationships may vary from period to period. Many of our current and planned products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in telecommunications networks. If that occurs, our reputation or market acceptance of our products and services may be harmed. Our products are highly complex, and we cannot assure customers that our extensive product development, production and integration testing is, or will be, adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could affect customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. Our products and services may contain undetected errors or scalability limitations at any point in their lives, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. As a result, we might have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that have been supplied to customers. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by customers or customers end users and other losses to us or to our customers or end users. These occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, in the loss of sales, or in the need to create provisions, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions is an issue of critical importance for us and for our customers and users who rely on our systems to store and exchange large volumes of information, much of which is proprietary and confidential. There appears to be an increasing number of individuals, governments, groups and computer hackers developing and deploying a variety of destructive software programs (such as viruses, worms and other malicious software) that could attack our computer systems or solutions or attempt to infiltrate our systems. We make significant efforts to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, solutions and source code. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers, it is virtually impossible for us to mitigate this risk entirely because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. Like all software solutions, our software is vulnerable to these types of attacks. An attack of this type could 18 Table of Contents disrupt the proper functioning of our software solutions, cause errors in the output of our customers work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers and other destructive outcomes. If an actual or perceived breach of our security were to occur, our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our solutions and we could face lawsuits and potential liability, any of which could cause our financial performance to be negatively impacted. Though we maintain professional liability insurance that may be available to provide coverage if a cybersecurity incident were to occur, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be available or that available coverage will be sufficient to cover losses and claims related to any cybersecurity incidents we may experience. There is also a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse or theft of information or assets (including source code), or damage to assets by people who have gained unauthorized access to our facilities, systems or information, which could lead to the disclosure of portions of our source code or other confidential information, improper usage and distribution of our solutions without compensation, illegal or inappropriate usage of our systems and solutions, jeopardizing of the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems, manipulation and destruction of data, defects in our software and downtime issues. More generally, the COVID-19 pandemic has increased attack opportunities available to criminals, as they attempt to profit from disruptions and the resulting shift in companies and individuals working remotely and online, as well as the increase in electronic payments, e-commerce, and other online activity. While the Company does not currently have operations in areas experiencing rising political conflict and uncertainty, there is an increased likelihood that escalation of tensions could result in cyber-attacks or cybersecurity incidents that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. As such, the risk of cybersecurity incidents is increasing, and we cannot provide assurances that our preventative efforts will be successful. Although we actively employ measures to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of our facilities, systems, software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. The occurrence of an event of this nature could adversely affect our financial results or could result in significant claims against us for damages. Further, participating in either a lawsuit to protect against unauthorized access to, usage of or disclosure of any of our solutions or any portion of our source code or the prosecution of an individual in connection with a cybersecurity breach could be costly and time-consuming and could divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our solutions. A number of core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service and financial transactions, rely on our IT, infrastructure and applications. Defects or malfunctions in our IT infrastructure and applications could cause our service offerings not to perform as our customers expect, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, malicious software, sabotage and other cybersecurity breaches of the types described above could cause an outage of our infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately downtimes, recovery costs and customer claims, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows. The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems could also be jeopardized by a breach of our internal controls and policies by our employees, consultants or subcontractors having access to our systems. If our systems fail or are breached as a result of a third-party attack or an error, violation of internal controls or policies or a breach of contract by an employee, consultant or subcontractor that results in the unauthorized use or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information or customer data (including information about the existence and nature of the projects and transactions our customers are engaged in), we could lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation and incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. We could be liable for damages, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences, any of which liabilities could be significant. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in a substantial cost to us and divert managements attention from our operations. Any significant claim against us or litigation involving us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented a number of security measures designed to ensure the security of our information, IT resources and other assets. Nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. Any security breach, misuse of our IT systems or theft of our or our customers intellectual property or data could lead to customer losses, non-renewal of customer agreements, loss of production, recovery costs or litigation brought by customers or business partners, any of which could adversely impact our cash flows and reputation and could have an adverse impact on our disclosure