Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 1 Financial Information of this Form 10-Q. The words Synchronoss, we, our, ours, us, and the Company refer to Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, hopes, should, continues, seeks, likely or similar expressions, indicate a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the duration and severity of the geopolitical tensions and its impact on our business and financial performance. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We caution investors not to place substantial reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this quarterly report. These statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. All numbers are expressed in thousands unless otherwise stated. Overview Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. (Synchronoss or the Company) is a leading provider of white label cloud software and services that enable our customers to keep subscribers, systems, networks and content in sync. The Synchronoss Personal CloudTM solution is designed to create an engaging and trusted customer experience through ongoing content management and engagement. The Synchronoss Personal CloudTM platform is a secure and highly scalable, white label platform that allows our customers subscribers to backup and protect, engage with, and manage their personal content and gives our operator customers the ability to increase average revenue per user (ARPU) and reduce churn. Our Synchronoss Personal CloudTM platform is specifically designed to support smartphones, tablets, desktops computers, and laptops. Synchronoss Messaging platform (Owned and operated through October 31, 2023) had powered mobile messaging and mailboxes for hundreds of millions of telecommunication subscribers. Our Advanced Messaging platform had been a powerful, secure, intelligent, white label messaging platform that expanded capabilities for communications service provider and multi-service providers to offer P2P messaging via Rich Communications Services (RCS). Our Mobile Messaging Platform (MMP) provided a single standard ecosystem for onboarding and management to brands, advertisers and message wholesalers. The Synchronoss NetworkX (Owned and operated through October 31, 2023) products had provided operators with the tools and software to design their physical network, streamlined their infrastructure purchases, and managed and optimized comprehensive network expenses for leading top tier carriers around the globe. We market our solutions and services directly through our sales organizations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Revenues We generate most of our revenues on a subscription basis, which is derived from contracts that extend up to 48 months from execution. 32 Table of Contents The future success of our business depends on the continued growth of Business-to-Business and Business-to-Business-to-Consumer driving customer transactions, and continued expansion of our platforms into the TMT market globally through cloud markets. As such, the volume of subscribers and our ability to expand our footprint in TMT and globally may result in revenue fluctuations on a quarterly basis. Most of our revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars but as we continue to expand our footprint with international carriers, we are subject to currency translation that could affect our future net sales as reported in U.S. dollars. The Companys top five customers accounted for 97.2% and 95.6% of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively. Contracts with these customers typically run for three to five years. Of these customers, both Verizon and AT&T accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2024 and 2023. The loss of Verizon or AT&T as a customer would have a material negative impact on our company. However, we believe that the costs incurred and subscriber disruption by Verizon or AT&T to replace Synchronoss solutions would be substantial. Current Trends Affecting Our Results of Operations Business from our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution has been driven by the growth in mobile devices globally that are becoming content rich. As these devices replace other traditional devices like PCs, the ability to securely back up content from mobile devices, sync it with other devices and share it with family, friends and business associates have become an essential need and subscriber expectation. Such devices include smartphones, connected cars, personal health and wellness devices and connected home devices. The need for the content from these devices to be stored in a common cloud is also expected to drive our business in the longer term. To support our growth, which we expect to be driven by the favorable industry trends, we plan to leverage modular components from our existing software platforms to build new products. We believe that these opportunities will continue to provide future benefits and position us for future revenue growth. We have focused our product development efforts on expanding the functionality, scalability and security of our products and solutions. We expect to sustain our research and development investments as we intend to continue on an aggressive path to develop new features and functionality, upgrade and extend our product offerings and develop new technology. Our purchase of capital assets and equipment may increase based on aggressive deployment, subscriber growth and promotional offers for free or bundled storage by our major Tier 1 carrier customers. We continue to expand our platforms into the converging TMT market to enable connected devices to do more things across multiple networks, brands and communities. Our initiatives with our customers continue to grow both with regard to our current business as well as our new product offerings. We are also exploring additional opportunities to support our customer, product and geographic diversification strategies. 33 Table of Contents Discussion of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change 2024 2023 2024 vs 2023 Net revenues $ 42,965 $ 41,985 $ 980 Cost of revenues1 10,223 10,960 (737) Research and development 10,331 12,744 (2,413) Selling, general and administrative 13,257 15,966 (2,709) Restructuring charges 219 342 (123) Depreciation and amortization 4,359 3,932 427 Total costs and expenses 38,389 43,944 (5,555) Income (loss) from operations $ 4,576 $ (1,959) $ 6,535 ________________________________ 1 Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. Net revenues increased $1.0 million to $43.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in 2023. The increase in revenue was primarily due to $3.2 million increase in subscription revenue due to growth in Cloud subscribers, partially offset by ($0.9) million decrease in professional services associated with the prior year launch of SoftBank and ($0.9) million revenue recognized in the prior period from expiring Messaging and Digital contracts not included in the Assets Purchase Agreement with Lumine Group. Cost of revenues decreased $0.7 million to $10.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in 2023. The 2024 decrease was primarily attributable to the reduced employee costs due to restructuring. Research and development expense decreased $2.4 million to $10.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in 2023. The research and development costs decreased year over year mainly as a result of reduced employee costs due to restructuring and executed cost savings initiatives to streamline our workforce and reduce vendor spend and overhead costs. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $2.7 million to $13.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in 2023. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense is mainly related to reduced employee costs due to restructuring and non-recurring professional fees. Restructuring charges were $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Restructuring charges were primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $0.4 million to $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in 2023. The 2024 increase was primarily attributable to the increased amortization of capitalized software. Income tax. The Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $0.6 million and $0.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 11.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the impact of valuation allowances recorded and foreign tax rate differential, partially offset by projected current income tax expense in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. The Companys projection of current income tax expense for the period is driven by the impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income and enacted Internal Revenue Code Section 174 rules that require the Company to capitalize and amortize qualifying research and development expenses and by operating income generated in certain foreign 34 Table of Contents jurisdictions. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately (3.6)% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded, foreign tax rate differential and certain jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash provided by operations. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $19.1 million at March 31, 2024. We anticipate that our principal uses of cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our business, including technology expansion and working capital. At March 31, 2024, our non-U.S. subsidiaries held approximately $13.1 million of cash and cash equivalents that are available for use by our operations around the world. Our policy has been to leave our cumulative unremitted foreign earnings invested indefinitely outside the United States, and we intend to continue this policy for most of our foreign subsidiaries. During 2023, we changed our indefinite reinvestment assertion for our Indian subsidiary and recorded a deferred tax liability associated with the outside basis difference. The Company continues to assert permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings in all other foreign jurisdictions. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of such earnings, if any, it is not practicable to determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability relating to such amounts. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, financing sources, and our ability to manage working capital and expected positive cash flows generated from operations in combination with continued expense reductions will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the filing date of this Form 10-Q based on our current business plans. Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of this MD&A and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, some of which are outside of our control. For further details, see Note 9. Debt and Note 11. Capital Structure of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Discussion of Cash Flows A summary of net cash flows follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 527 $ 1,295 Investing activities (3,803) (5,470) Financing activities $ (2,129) $ (2,299) Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are personnel and related costs, telecommunications and facility costs related primarily to our cost of revenue and general operating expenses including professional service fees, consulting fees, building and equipment maintenance and marketing expense. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $0.5 million as compared to $1.3 million of cash provided by operating activities for the same period in 2023. In the current period, the Company generated cash from operations mainly driven by continued growth in cloud subscribers and reduced operating costs, offset by unfavorable movements in working capital compared to the first quarter of 2023. Cash used in investingactivities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $3.8 million as compared to $5.5 million of cash used in investing activities during the same period in 2023. The cash used for investing activities in the current year and 35 Table of Contents prior year was primarily related to continued investment in product development for our Cloud offering and capitalization of associated labor costs. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $2.1 million as compared to $2.3 million of cash used in financing activities during the same period in 2023. The cash used in investing activities in the current year and prior year was primarily related to dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock. Effect of Inflation Inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as occupancy, labor and benefits, and general administrative costs, have impacted our business. Management does not believe these impacts have had a material impact on our results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be affected by general inflation in the future. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of office and laptop leases, notes payable and related interest as well as contractual commitments under third-party hosting, software licenses and maintenance agreements. The following table summarizes our longterm contractual obligations as of March 31, 2024 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total 2024 2025-2027 2028 Finance lease obligations $ 1,160 $ 471 $ 689 $ Interest 29,538 8,861 20,677 Operating lease obligations 32,127 5,904 21,948 4,275 Purchase obligations1 29,994 16,391 13,603 Senior Note Payable 141,077 141,077 Total $ 233,896 $ 31,627 $ 197,994 $ 4,275 _______________________________ 1 Amount represents obligations associated with colocation agreements and other customer delivery related purchase obligations. Uncertain Tax Positions Unrecognized tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions are $4.4 million at March 31, 2024. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We do not expect that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease over the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to utilize accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a fiscal period. The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to a companys financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. These estimates and assumptions take into account historical and forward looking factors that the Company believes are reasonable, including but not limited to the potential impacts from current geopolitical tensions. As the extent and duration of the impacts from geopolitical developments remain unclear, the Companys estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making these estimates, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future 36 Table of Contents periods could be materially affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q for certain matters bearing risks on our future results of operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards see Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.