Managements Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K. We also encourage you to read Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors, which contains a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. In addition to the risks described in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, other unknown or unpredictable factors also could affect our results. Therefore, the information in this Form 10-K should be read together with other reports and documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, which may supplement, modify, supersede or update those risk factors. Synchronoss expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Synchronoss expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. This Form 10-K includes industry and market data that we obtained from periodic industry publications, third-party studies and surveys, filings of public companies in our industry and internal company surveys. These sources include government and industry sources. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. Although we believe the industry and market data incorporated into this Form 10-K to be reliable, this information could prove to be inaccurate. Industry and market data could be wrong because of the method by which sources obtained their data and because information cannot always be verified with complete certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. In addition, we do not know all of the assumptions regarding general economic conditions or growth that were used in preparing the forecasts from the sources relied upon or cited herein. ITEM 1.BUSINESS Overview Synchronoss Personal CloudTM is a powerful software solution that helps global network operators and mobile insurance providers drive revenue, increase engagement, and enhance digital security. Our platform enables customers to connect, engage, and monetize subscribers by offering a trusted, seamless way to sync, organize, and protect their digital content. With Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered features that enrich user experiences, we help operators create new revenue streams, lower innovation costs, and strengthen customer loyalty, all while ensuring secure and effortless content management. Who We Serve At Synchronoss we focus on delivering carrier-grade solutions to three markets globally: communications service providers/multi-service operators (such as cable and mobile network operators), mobile insurance providers and retailers. We enable our customers to monetize value-added services, drive growth, and boost retention through differentiated experiences. Communications service providers, multi-service operators and mobile insurance providers market white label implementations of our Synchronoss Personal CloudTM products and solutions to their subscribers around the world. Our customers market and re-sell the services powered by our technology to their subscribers as part of stand-alone subscriptions or value-added bundles. They also use our Personal Cloud to enhance their service offerings to subscribers who purchase and lease mobile devices and network connectivity by providing an easy solution for storing and syncing user generated content (e.g., videos, photos, documents, contacts, music, etc.). Our customers include global service providers such as AT&T, Verizon, and Softbank. These customers utilize our solutions to service both consumer and enterprise customers. 4 Table of Contents How We Go to Market We market our solutions through multiple channels such as our corporate website, direct sales teams across key regions (North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC)), and industry partnerships. Sales We sell our solutions, products, and services through a direct sales force, with strategic partners, and in collaboration with our customers to resell services to their end customers and subscribers. Our sales professionals have deep expertise in our products, along with a strong understanding of market trends and customer needs. Marketing The Synchronoss marketing team uses a cloud-focused approach to drive customer acquisition and growth through strategic, targeted campaigns. Our mission is centered on developing compelling product-specific messaging that addresses end user needs and comprehensive brand narratives through an array of channels, including digital marketing, sales support, social media, and public relations. These strategic efforts are crucial in generating business-to-business (B2B) sales leads, enhancing the visibility of our cloud solutions, and reinforcing our brand presence across the telecom, insurance, and retail sectors in the North America, EMEA, and APAC regions. We also support our partners direct-to-consumer (D2C) marketing to drive subscriber growth and adoption. Through our integrated go-to-market and awareness campaigns, orchestrated with an omnichannel approach, we ensure that consumers are engaged at every pivotal point in the purchase lifecycle. This includes interactions during online checkout, retail engagements, customer support, the initial setup of products, and via in-app notifications for devices pre-installed with our cloud application. These initiatives are a clear demonstration of our dedication to delivering not only a secure and user-centric cloud experience, but also to empowering service providers and consumers alike with a platform that champions data integrity and propels user engagement. What We Deliver - Synchronoss Personal CloudTM Platform The Synchronoss Personal CloudTM platform is a secure and highly scalable white label platform that allows our customers subscribers to backup and protect, engage with, and manage their personal content and gives our operator customers the ability to increase average revenue per user (ARPU) and reduce churn. Designed for smartphones, tablets, and desktops across all operating systems, our platform ensures a seamless, cross-device experience. Divestiture of the Messaging and NetworkX Businesses On October 31, 2023, Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Lumine Group Software Solutions (Ireland) Limited, pursuant to which the Company sold its Messaging and NetworkX businesses. This transaction represented a strategic shift designed to maximize shareholder value and allowed the Company to solely focus on providing cloud-centric solutions. In connection with the sale transaction, the Company determined its Messaging and NetworkX Businesses qualified for discontinued operations accounting treatment in accordance with ASC 205-20. Accordingly, the operating results of, and costs to separate the Messaging and NetworkX businesses are reported in Net loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjusted on a retrospective basis. For additional information, see Note 4. Divestitures and Discontinued Operationsof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. What We Deliver - Our Services Synchronoss offers professional services including consulting, installation and deployment, configuration, customization, systems integration, and support to ensure our customers successful deployment and utilization of our products and solutions. 5 Table of Contents Product Development At Synchronoss we have focused our product development efforts on expanding the functionality, scalability, and security of our products and solutions. We expect to sustain our research and development investments as we intend to continue on an aggressive path to develop new features and functionality, upgrade and extend our product offerings, and develop new technology. To this effect, Synchronoss has invested in and implemented AI technology to introduce several new features in the Personal Cloud product. These features include advanced editing of photos using AI models and auto-curating subscriber content using several AI models to generate engaging collections to be shared with users as memories. Intellectual Property We rely principally on a combination of trademark, copyright and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, which protect our proprietary information, technologies and strategies. We also cultivate a culture which encourages creativity and innovation amongst our employees by maintaining a patent award program and hosting events such as an annual Innovation Jam and periodic hackathons. We believe this facilitates the development of new features, functionality, and products, which are essential to establishing our solutions as the leading solutions in the industry. We enter into proprietary information and invention agreements with all of our employees and consultants during the onboarding process and non-disclosure agreements with all third parties. As of December 31, 2024, we had 37 patents issued and 13 patents pending in the United States, and we had 67 patents issued and 3 pending internationally. We hold and/or are pursuing patents in the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland and Spain and we may seek additional jurisdictions to the extent we determine such coverage is appropriate and cost efficient. Our issued patents cover all aspects of our business including cloud and security. Demand Drivers for Our Business With faster/higher speeds, lower latency, more capacity, enhanced security and better reliability, 5G capabilities will enable new use cases, applications and business models that were not possible before. Consumer demand for these features alone will shape how operators offer 5G services and operators in turn have the opportunity to monetize and earn differentiated revenue streams. According to Market Research Future, Mobile Value-Added-Services (VAS) are set to hit $309.1 billion by 2025. The transition to 5G provides an opportunity to strengthen operators position in the consumer market and function as a service enabler by bundling VAS into premium offers. Service providers should also become service creators by developing new, immersive products under their own brand. In either case (branded and partner services) powering digital bundles and simplifying onboarding, consumption, billing, and authentication of VAS will drive higher adoption of premium 5G service plans and ARPU. Beyond being a buzz word or strategy, 5G is the next wave in communication service providers technological future. In 2024, we saw the continued adoption of 5G use cases and operators began to reap returns carriers were reliant on when making their investment in 5G technology. In 2027, it is projected1 that North America will have the highest 5G penetration at 90 percent. 5G adoption among mid-tier smart phones also continued to abound as new devices and capabilities were introduced by mobile phone manufacturers in 2023. More devices will lead to more vulnerabilities around privacy, data, and hardware protection. Consumers have made it clear; they want to understand and feel confident about how their data is being used. Service providers have proven themselves true stewards of consumer data protection and privacy, and therefore differentiated as the market continues to develop. As the provider of both the mobile network and fixed wireless connectivity, service providers are uniquely positioned to become the trusted end-to-end solution of total protection services for subscribers both at home and on the go. The consumer demand around personal cloud data protection, hardware insurance, home and network security will allow service providers to capitalize on their trusted relationship with consumers. We believe our white label Personal Cloud platform helps service providers accelerate the adoption of 5G service and total protection plans. Our next generation Personal Cloud gives operators a new way to create, deliver, engage, and monetize more personalized experiences and offers for their subscribers. When operators have millions of active users leveraging cloud, it becomes a channel for cross selling security services, insurance, merchandise, and other carrier services, leading to a significant increase in ARPU. As a result, we are fostering new partnerships, building exciting new capabilities, and now enabling subscribers to protect the connected devices. Giving subscribers the ability to protect hardware investments with insurance 6 Table of Contents plans, protect their families from cyber threats with network-based security services, and their personal content - with cloud, will differentiate the value proposition of 5G service plans and deliver significant brand value for our customers. Personal Cloud and its data protection value proposition fits nicely into the device protection and insurance offering. Insurance providers bundle personal cloud with the device protection to offer total device protection. Cable Multiple System Operators (MSO) and broadband service providers have a unique opportunity to offer personal cloud as an all home data protection offering, which increases ARPU and provides the much-needed access to the home service provider market beyond being a connectivity and content provider. In addition, service providers also can include personal cloud into a security bundle where consumers get data protection combined with other features like anti-virus, password protection, Virtual Private Network (VPN) and more. Additionally, the personal cloud market is expected to grow at 18.5% compound annual growth rate (CAGR)2 during the forecast period (2023-2028), reflecting continued need and interest by consumers for a solution to protect and save their digital content across the globe. Market research conducted in the first quarter of 2024 further affirmed the opportunity finding 1) nearly a third of users who have not yet adopted a personal cloud solution in North America intend to adopt cloud in the next 3 years; 2) nearly 15% expected growth in secondary cloud adoption; and 3) keen opportunity to win over Over-the-Top (OTT) cloud users willing to switch for price, storage and privacy. _____________________________ 1 Ericsson June 2022 Mobility Report. 2 Markets to Market January 2024 Personal Cloud Report. Competition Competition across our markets is incredibly diverse, dynamic, and nuanced in an increasingly interconnected landscape of rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and converging spaces and services. We face the following categories of competitors in Personal Cloud: OTT Service & Platform Providers - Apple, Google, Dropbox, Box, Microsoft and Amazon all provide personal cloud services closely integrated to their respective technology or service platforms. However, Synchronoss differentiates from these OTT Service and Platform Providers by offering operator-grade white label solutions. White Label Platform Providers - The field of platform-independent, white label personal cloud providers has consolidated in recent years with Funambol and others competing for operator distribution deals. However, these providers target second and third tier regional operators with low-risk, revenue share business models and do not generally pose a real threat to Tier 1 world-wide operators. To compete against global platform providers, we offer a collection of products that help to keep subscribers, systems, networks, and content in sync to enable a better, more engaging experience. Our white label products enable subscribers to connect with one another, the networks they rely on, the brands they love and the services they need. We believe we compete favorably through our differentiated product capabilities, vast reach across global markets, and our 20+ years of experience building carrier grade solutions that are proven to scale. Compliance and Certifications We obtain third-party reviews of our controls relating to security. Our Synchronoss white label Personal Cloud has been certified to be compliant with the Service Organization Controls (SOC) 2 type II audit that tests the design and operating effectiveness of controls over time. An independent auditor tests these controls annually and addresses the environmental and physical safeguards for production data centers, legal controls, change management, and logical security among other areas. Additionally, our operations in Bangalore are certified under ISO27000, ensuring best practices for information security management. Human Capital At Synchronoss, we recognize that our growth and success are driven by our talented employees and experienced management team. Our mission is to foster an environment that makes Synchronoss a great place to work, where employees 7 Table of Contents feel valued, empowered, and inspired to excel. By investing in our people and nurturing a team-oriented culture, we believe that we have established a sustainable competitive advantage that helps to fuel our long-term success. As of December 31, 2024 we employed 802 full-time employees and 47 contingent workers across India, North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific regions. Our purpose-driven culture emphasizes employee well-being, inclusivity, and open communication, enabling us to attract and retain top talent worldwide. To support our employees' evolving needs, we implemented a flexible work policy, allowing the majority of our workforce to choose remote work arrangements. We are committed to continuous learning and development, offering robust programs that support personal and professional growth at all levels of the organization. Employees are encouraged to share their insights and feedback through multiple channels, including company-wide town hall meetings and engagement surveys, fostering a culture of transparency and collaboration. We have also taken significant strides to enhance employee engagement and inclusivity, fostering a more connected and collaborative workplace. We have introduced formal training programs, strengthened internal communications, and updated corporate language to reflect inclusivity and align with industry best practices. In addition, we have prioritized initiatives that increase access to leadership and reduce silos across the organization. We regularly host leadership roundtables, town hall meetings, and cross-departmental forums to encourage open dialogue and collaboration, which allow employees at all levels to have the opportunity to engage directly with senior leaders. Recognizing the value of in-person connections, we have also increased on-site employee social events, fostering camaraderie and teamwork in a more informal setting. These efforts not only strengthen employee relationships, but also reinforce our inclusive and team-oriented culture. Further demonstrating our commitment to making a positive impact, we continued the Sync Cares program, launched in 2022, to connect employees and leadership with opportunities to give back to their communities. In 2024, hundreds of our employees dedicated 566 hours to supporting 11 organizations globally through our Sync Cares program, showcasing our collective dedication to social responsibility and community engagement. Our total rewards philosophy prioritizes competitive compensation and comprehensive benefits. We conduct an annual compensation review and pay equity analysis with the goal of ensuring fairness and alignment with market standards. This process is integrated with our performance management cycle, which includes regular feedback discussions to support career development and align individual contributions with our organizational goals. Through these initiatives, Synchronoss continues to build a workplace where employees feel empowered, engaged, and motivated to drive innovation and deliver results. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2000. Our principal offices are located at 200 Crossing Boulevard, Bridgewater, New Jersey. We completed our initial public offering in 2006. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SNCR and our Senior Notes as listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SNCRL. Available Information Our website is located at www.synchronoss.com and our investor relations website is located at https://synchronosstechnologiesinc.gcs-web.com/. We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website iswww.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Synchronoss, Synchronoss Personal CloudTM and other trademarks of Synchronoss appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of Synchronoss. Other trademarks or service marks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Annual Report are sometimes referred to 8 Table of Contents without the , and SM symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and our investors may lose part or all of their investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Operation Risks Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or future borrowings may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund liquidity needs or capital expenditures. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We traditionally have had substantial customer concentration, with a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial portion of our revenue. We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could have important consequences for investors. We may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. We must recruit and retain our key management and other key personnel and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could have a negative impact on our business. Our products are complex and may contain defects that are detected only after deployment. Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. The quality of our support and services offerings is important to our customers and if we fail to meet out service level obligations under our service level agreements or otherwise fail to offer quality support and services, we would be subject to penalties and could lose customers. Our reliance on third-party providers for communications software, services, hardware and infrastructure exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses, which could affect our operating results and the period-over-period comparability of our operating results. Downgrades in our credit ratings may increase our future borrowing costs, limit our ability to raise capital, cause our stock price to decline, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our insurance policies, including general liability, errors and omissions and cyber insurance, may not totally protect us. Risks Related to our Business and Industry The financial and operating difficulties in the telecommunications sector may negatively affect our customers and our business. We recently announced our new strategy to focus on our cloud-centric solutions. There can be no guarantee that this strategy will be successful or that we will experience consistent and sustainable profitability in the future as a result of our new strategy. The success of our business depends on the continued growth in demand for connected devices and the continued availability of high-speed access to the Internet. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our services. Any decline in our customer renewal and expansions would harm our operating results. The markets in which we market and sell our products and services are highly competitive, and if we do not adapt to rapid technological change, our ability to sustain or grow revenue could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Consolidation in the telecommunications, media, technology industry and other industries that we serve can reduce the number of actual and potential customers and adversely affect our business. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and of the international exchange of certain information is subject to possible unfavorable changes, and our failure to comply could harm our business and operating results. We collect, process, store, disclose and use personal information and other data, and our perceived failure to protect this information and data could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. Risks Related to our Term Loan, Senior Notes and Common Stock We may fail to refinance, redeem or repay in full our Senior Notes prior to March 31, 2026, and in that event the maturity date of our Term Loan will be March 31, 2026. The terms of our Credit Agreement restrict our operating and financial flexibility, and any breach of the covenants in that agreement, if the lenders elected to accelerate the due date of the loan, could significantly harm our business and prospects and lead to the liquidation of our business. Our stock price may continue to experience significant fluctuations and could subject us to litigation. We have, and in the future may be, the target of stockholder derivative complaints or other securities related legal actions that could adversely affect our results of operations and our business. Delaware law and provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, therefore depressing the trading price of our common stock. Our current or future debt securities or preferred equity securities, which would be senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Senior Notes are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness that we currently have or that we may incur in the future. The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. The indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains limited protection for holders of the Senior Notes. A 1% U.S. federal excise tax may be imposed upon us in connection with redemptions or repurchases of our equity. Operation Risks Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or future borrowings which may not be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products which could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue or obtain enough capital to fund our capital expenditures, service our debt and execute on our business strategy. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than our competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. We intend to continue to make substantial investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products and enhancements to our platforms or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. The maturity date of our Senior Notes is June 30, 2026, and if we fail to refinance, redeem or repay in full our Senior Notes prior to March 31, 2026, then the maturity date of our Term Loan will be March 31, 2026. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additionally, we have a limited availability of authorized and unissued common stock, which may make it more difficult to raise funds through equity financings without approval of the stockholders of an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of common stock that we are authorized to issue. If we raise additional capital, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. In addition, the terms of any future issued equity securities could entitle the holders of those equity securities to rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our securities. Furthermore, if we engage in additional debt financings, the holders of debt might have priority over the holders of our securities, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, including restricting our ability to pay dividends or make certain other restricted payment, sell assets, make certain investments and grant liens, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, including limitations to our total leverage ratio, any of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: 10 Table of Contents develop or enhance our products and platforms, acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses, expand operations in the United States or internationally, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited which may also require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycles. Our customers businesses are relatively complex and their purchase of the types of products and services that we offer generally involve a significant financial commitment, with attendant delays, frequently associated with large financial commitments and procurement procedures within a large organization. In addition, as we continue to further expand our presence in the global market, and the size and complexity of our sales opportunities continue to vary, we have seen an increase in the average length of time in our sales cycles. The purchase of the types of products and services that we offer typically requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customers organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle has and could in the future adversely affect our results of operations or reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, many of which are out of our control, our operating results for a particular quarter are difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline, as it has in the past, on a year-over-year basis. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. The timing of large engagements can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter. The timing of such engagements is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such engagements may affect period to period changes in revenue. Additionally, we may experience fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which could affect our operating results. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on such engagements and their ultimate recognition as revenue. We base our operating expense and capital investment budgets on expected sales and revenue trends, and many of our expenses, such as office and equipment leases and personnel costs. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term and are expected to increase over time as we make investments in our business. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, non-GAAP metrics we may disclose, such as Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Non-GAAP net (loss) income attributable to Synchronoss, Non-GAAP net (loss) income per share, Free Cash Flow, Adjusted Free Cash Flow and any corresponding trends in such metrics should not be relied on as an indication that our GAAP results, such as net income (loss), will be similar or will follow the same trends. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. We are subject to revenue recognition standards and because we recognize revenue for certain products and services ratably over the term of customer agreements upturns or downturns in the value of signed contracts will not be fully and immediately reflected in our operating results and any changes in the standards could impact our business. We offer certain of our products and services primarily through fixed or variable commitment contracts and recognize revenue ratably over the related service period, which typically ranges from twelve to twenty-four months. As a result, some 11 Table of Contents portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is revenue from contracts entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in signed contracts in any quarter will not be fully and immediately reflected in revenue for that quarter but may instead negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to offset this reduced revenue. Similarly, revenue attributable to an increase in contracts signed in a particular quarter will not be fully and immediately recognized, as revenue from new or renewed contracts is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. Because we incur certain sales costs at the time of sale, we may not recognize revenues from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales processes. Timing differences of this nature could cause our margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.As we introduce new services or products, revenue recognition could become increasingly complex and require additional analysis and judgment. Additionally, for new contracts with existing customers, we may negotiate and revise previously used terms and conditions of our contracts with these customers and channel partners, which may also cause us to revise our revenue recognition policies. As our arrangements with customers change, we may be required to defer a greater portion of revenue into future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Global economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include but are not limited to general economic and business conditions, the overall demand for cloud-based products and services, general political developments and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries caused by political instability and conflict and economic challenges caused by general health crises have led to market disruptions, including significant volatility in commodity prices, credit and capital market instability and supply chain interruptions, which have caused record inflation globally, have and may in the future exacerbate negative trends in consumer spending and may negatively impact the businesses of certain of our customers, which may cause a reduction in their use of our solutions or increase the likelihood of defaulting on their payment obligations, and therefore affect our operations. Increased inflation may result in increases in our operating costs (including our labor costs), reduced liquidity and limits on our ability to access credit or otherwise raise capital on acceptable terms, if at all. Existing free trade laws and regulations, such as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products, such as Canada, China and Mexico, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, in February 2025, the U.S. government imposed or threatened to impose new tariffs on imported products from Mexico, Canada and China. The impact of these tariffs is subject to a number of factors, including the effective date and duration of such tariffs, changes in the amount, scope and nature of the tariffs in the future, any retaliatory responses to such actions that the target countries may take and any mitigating actions that may become available. Despite recent trade negotiations between the U.S. and the Mexican, Canadian and Chinese governments, given the uncertainty regarding the scope and duration of any new tariffs, as well as the potential for additional tariffs or trade barriers by the U.S., Mexico, Canada, China or other countries, we can provide no assurance that any strategies we implement to mitigate the impact of such tariffs or other trade actions will be successful. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Economic conditions, and uncertainty as to the general direction of the macroeconomic environment, are beyond our control and may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, costly and dilutive. These conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions may make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations and may result in a more competitive environment, resulting in possible pricing pressures. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, an economic downturn or significant increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. Our business could be affected by acts of war or other military actions, terrorism, natural disasters and the widespread outbreak of infectious diseases. Current world tensions could escalate, and this could have unpredictable consequences on the world economy and on our business. Continued uncertainty about the associated economic consequences may have a long-term adverse effect on the economy, our sellers, customers, suppliers, and our business. For example, we are currently subletting some of our office space. Our work from home practices have caused us to need less office space than we are contractually committed to leasing and an economic downturn may prevent us from finding subtenants for such unused office space, causing us to pay for unused office space. Similarly, an economic downturn or changes to the market could affect our subtenants and may cause them to default on their subleases, resulting in the Company being responsible for lease payments for the subleased spaces. Rising tensions in the geopolitical climate, including effects of the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the conflict between Israel and Hamas and other militant groups in the Middle East and the possibility of a wider regional or global conflict, and global 12 Table of Contents sanctions imposed in response thereto, have created significant uncertainty in the global economy. These or any further political or governmental developments or health concerns in countries could result in social, economic and labor instability. If, as a result of such events, we experience a reduction in demand for our products, platforms or services, or the supply of products or components to our customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We traditionally have had substantial customer concentration, with a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial portion of our revenues. The Companys top five customers accounted for 97.6%, 96.6% and 94.6% of net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Contracts with these customers typically run for three to five years. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of the Companys revenues in 2024, 2023, and 2022; and AT&T accounted for more than 10% of the Companys revenues in 2024 and 2023. We expect this trend to continue in 2025, and in fact the Company and AT&T recently signed an extension of the AT&T Personal Cloud agreement extending the term to December 31, 2027.There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products and services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products and services of these customers in the end-user marketplace. In addition, revenues from these larger customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions or other factors, some of which may be outside of our control. Further, some of our contracts with these larger customers permit them to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). If any of our major customers experience declining or delayed sales due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices we charge for our services or we could lose the customer. Any such development could have an adverse effect on our margins and financial position and would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock. We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could have important consequences to investors. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to covenants contained in the Credit Agreement (defined below). The terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes does not prohibit us from doing so. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the Senior Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with holders of the Senior Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization or dissolution. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to investors. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because: it could affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the Senior Notes and Term Loan; a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations would have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; it may impair our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future; it may limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity; it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Incurrence of additional debt would also further reduce the cash available to invest in operations, as a result of increased debt service obligations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. The maturity date of our Senior Notes is June 30, 2026, and if we fail to refinance, redeem or repay in full our Senior Notes prior to March 31, 2026, then the maturity date of our Term Loan will be March 31, 2026. If we fail to make a payment on the Senior Notes, we could be in default on the Senior Notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on the Term Loan or other indebtedness, to the extent outstanding. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flows to redeem or repay in full our Senior Notes prior to March 31, 2026, we may have to raise additional funds to pay such amounts on a timely basis. We cannot guarantee that any refinancing of the Senior Notes will be possible on a timely basis, on terms we find acceptable, or at all. Additionally, a default under any other indebtedness, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the related agreement and entitle the holders thereof to bring suit for the enforcement thereof or exercise other remedies provided thereunder. In addition, such default or acceleration may 13 Table of Contents result in an event of default and acceleration of other indebtedness of the Company, entitling the holders thereof to bring suit for the enforcement thereof or exercise other remedies provided thereunder. If a judgment is obtained by any such holders, such holders could seek to collect on such judgment from the assets of the Company. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. We may make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth, including expenditures to develop new services or enhance our existing services, enhance our operating infrastructure, market and sell our product offerings and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties and could lead to a misapplication of our resources. These new investments are inherently risky and may involve distracting management from current operations, create greater than expected liabilities and expenses, provide us with an inadequate return on capital, include other unidentified risks and, ultimately, may generally not be successful. Further, our ability to effectively integrate new services and investments into our business may affect our profitability. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue and financial performance. We must recruit and retain our key management and other key personnel and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that these individuals have established and maintain with our customers and within the industries in which we operate contribute to our ability to maintain good relations with our customers and others within those industries. The loss of any members of senior management or other key personnel could materially impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise effectively manage our business. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. We have a limited availability of authorized and unissued common stock, which may make it more difficult to provide equity-based compensation without approval of the stockholders of an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporate to increase the number of shares of common stock that we are authorized to issue. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Further, in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel because their salaries and other compensation may increase to levels that we are unwilling or unable to provide. Competition for qualified personnel at times can be intense and as a result we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments and new product delivery objectives. If we are unable to maintain or expand our direct sales capabilities, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenues. In addition, if we are unable to maintain or expand our product development capabilities, we may not be able to meet our product development goals. Further, we rely on the expertise and experience of our senior management team. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, none of them or any of our other management personnel is obligated to remain employed by us. The loss of services of any key management personnel could lower productive output, interrupt our strategic vision and make it more difficult to pursue our business goals successfully. Our performance and growth depend on our ability to generate customer referrals and to develop referenceable customer relationships that will enhance our sales and marketing efforts. A failure to accomplish these objectives could materially harm our business. In our business, we depend on end users of our solutions to generate customer referrals for our services. We also depend on members of the communications industry, financial institutions, legal service providers and other third parties who use our services to recommend them to a larger customer base than we can reach through our direct sales and internal marketing efforts. These referrals are an important source of new customers for our services and generally are made without expectation of compensation. We intend to continue to focus our marketing efforts on these referral partners in order to expand our reach and improve the efficiency of our sales efforts. We also recognize that having respected, well known, market-leading customers who have committed to deploy our solutions within their organizations will support our marketing and sales efforts, as these customers can act as references for us and our product offerings. Our ability to establish and maintain these customer relationships is important to our future profitability. The willingness of these types of customers to provide referrals or serve as anchor or reference customers depends on a number of factors, including the performance, ease of use, reliability, reputation and cost-effectiveness of our services as compared to those offered by our competitors, as well as the internal policies of these 14 Table of Contents customers. We may not be able to cultivate or maintain the relationships with customers that are necessary to develop those customer relationships into referenceable accounts. The loss of any of our significant referral sources, including our anchor customers, or a decline in the number of referrals we receive or anchor customers that we generate could require us to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our services, which would increase our costs, potentially lead to a decline in our revenue, slow our growth and generally have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the revenue we generate from our referral and anchor relationships may vary from period to period. Many of our current and planned products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in telecommunications networks. If that occurs, our reputation or market acceptance of our products and services may be harmed. Our products are highly complex, and we cannot assure customers that our extensive product development, production and integration testing is, or will be, adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could affect customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. Our products and services may contain undetected errors or scalability limitations at any point in their lives, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. As a result, we might have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that have been supplied to customers.The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by customers or customers end users and other losses to us or to our customers or end users. These occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, in the loss of sales, or in the need to create provisions, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions is an issue of critical importance for us and for our customers and users who rely on our systems to store and exchange large volumes of information, much of which is proprietary and confidential. There appears to be an increasing number of individuals, governments, groups and computer hackers developing and deploying a variety of destructive software programs (such as viruses, worms and other malicious software) that could attack our computer systems or solutions or attempt to infiltrate our systems. We make significant efforts to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, solutions and source code. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers, it is virtually impossible for us to mitigate this risk entirely because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. Like all software solutions, our software is vulnerable to these types of attacks. An attack of this type could disrupt the proper functioning of our software solutions, cause errors in the output of our customers work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers, and other destructive outcomes. If an actual or perceived breach of our security were to occur, our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our solutions and we could face lawsuits and potential liability, any of which could cause our financial performance to be negatively impacted. Though we maintain professional liability insurance that may be available to provide coverage if a cybersecurity incident were to occur, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be available or that available coverage will be sufficient to cover losses and claims related to any cybersecurity incidents we may experience. There is also a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse or theft of information or assets (including source code), or damage to assets by people who have gained unauthorized access to our facilities, systems or information, which could lead to the disclosure of portions of our source code or other confidential information, improper usage and distribution of our solutions without compensation, illegal or inappropriate usage of our systems and solutions, jeopardizing of the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems, manipulation and destruction of data, defects in our software and downtime issues. The risk of security incidents is increasing as we experience an increase in electronic payments, e-commerce, and other online activity. Additionally, due to political uncertainty and military actions associated with the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict between Israel and Hamas and other militant groups in the Middle East, we and our service providers are vulnerable to heightened risks of security incidents and security and privacy breaches from or affiliated with nation-state actors, including attacks that could materially disrupt our systems, operations, supply chain, products, and services. While we do not currently have operations in areas experiencing rising political conflict and uncertainty, there is an increased likelihood that escalation of tensions could result in cyber-attacks or cybersecurity incidents that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. As such, the risk of cybersecurity incidents is increasing, and we cannot provide assurances that our preventative efforts will be successful. Although we actively employ measures to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of our facilities, systems, software and intellectual property through a variety of 15 Table of Contents techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. The occurrence of an event of this nature could adversely affect our financial results or could result in significant claims against us for damages. Further, participating in either a lawsuit to protect against unauthorized access to, usage of or disclosure of any of our solutions or any portion of our source code or the prosecution of an individual in connection with a cybersecurity breach could be costly and time-consuming and could divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our solutions. A number of core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service and financial transactions, rely on our IT, infrastructure and applications. Defects or malfunctions in our IT infrastructure and applications could cause our service offerings not to perform as our customers expect, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, malicious software, sabotage and other cybersecurity breaches of the types described above could cause an outage of our infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately downtimes, recovery costs and customer claims, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profitability and cash flows. Additionally, the development and implementation of AI technologies may further increase our exposure to or exacerbate the risks of cyber-attacks or other security incidents, particularly where such technologies are exploited by third parties to breach our or other parties systems, including when such technologies are used to target our employees or impersonate members of senior management in order to gain unauthorized access to our systems. The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems could also be jeopardized by a breach of our internal controls and policies by our employees, consultants or subcontractors having access to our systems. If our systems fail or are breached as a result of a third-party attack or an error, violation of internal controls or policies or a breach of contract by an employee, consultant or subcontractor that results in the unauthorized use or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information or customer data (including information about the existence and nature of the projects and transactions our customers are engaged in), we could lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation and incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. We could be liable for damages, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences, any of which liabilities could be significant. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in a substantial cost to us and divert managements attention from our operations. Any significant claim against us or litigation involving us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented a number of security measures designed to ensure the security of our information, IT resources and other assets. Nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. Any security breach, misuse of our IT systems or theft of our or our customers intellectual property or data could lead to customer losses, non-renewal of customer agreements, loss of production, recovery costs or litigation brought by customers or business partners, any of which could adversely impact our cash flows and reputation and could have an adverse impact on our disclosure