ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 1 Financial Information of this Form 10-Q. The words Synchronoss, we, our, ours, us, and the Company refer to Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, hopes, should, continues, seeks, likely or similar expressions, indicate a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business and financial performance. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We caution investors not to place substantial reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this quarterly report. These statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. All numbers are expressed in thousands unless otherwise stated. Overview Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. (Synchronoss or the Company) is a global software and services company that provides essential technologies for the mobile transformation of business. The Companys portfolio contains offerings such as personal cloud, secure-mobility, identity management and scalable messaging platforms, products and solutions. These essential technologies create a better way of delivering the transformative mobile experiences that the Companys customers need to help them stay ahead of the curve in competition, innovation, productivity, growth and operational efficiency. Synchronoss products and platforms are designed to be carrier-grade, flexible and scalable, enabling multiple converged communication services to be managed across a range of distribution channels including e-commerce, m-commerce, telesales, customer stores, indirect and other retail outlets. This business model allows the Company to meet the rapidly changing converged services and connected devices offered by their customers. Synchronoss products, platforms and solutions enable its customers to acquire, retain and service subscribers and employees quickly, reliably and cost-effectively with white label and custom-branded solutions. Synchronoss customers can simplify the processes associated with managing the customer experience for procuring, activating, connecting, backing-up, synchronizing and sharing/collaboration with connected devices and contents from these devices and associated services. The extensibility, scalability, reliability and relevance of the Companys platforms enable new revenue streams and retention opportunities for their customers through new subscriber acquisitions, sale of new devices, accessories and new value-added service offerings in the Cloud. By using the Companys technologies, Synchronoss customers can optimize their cost of operations while enhancing their customer experience. The Company currently operates in and markets its solutions and services directly through its sales organizations in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Impacts of the Recent Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) This disclosure discusses the actions the Company has taken in response to the COVID-19 crisis and the impacts that the situation has had on our business, as well as related known or expected trends. COVID-19 was identified in China in late 2019 and has since spread throughout the world, including throughout the United States (U.S.). COVID-19 has resulted in authorities implementing numerous preventative measures to contain or mitigate the outbreak of the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, limitations on business activity, quarantines, and shelter-in-place orders. 31 Table of Contents These restrictions and our responses to them are impacting our customers and their use of our products and services. In addition, governments have imposed a wide variety of consumer protection measures that limit how certain businesses, including TMT companies, can operate their businesses and interact with their customers. The crisis and governmental responses to the crisis have also resulted in a slowdown of global economic activity, which has impacted our customers. As a result, prior trends in our business may not be applicable to our operations during the pendency of the crisis. The impact of COVID-19 for the remainder of the year and beyond will depend significantly on the duration and potential cyclicality of the health crisis and the related public policy actions, additional initiatives we undertake in response to employee, market or regulatory needs or demands, the length and severity of the global economic slowdown, and whether and how our customers change their behaviors over the longer term. As a result, the demand for our products and services, as well as our overall results of operations, may be materially and adversely impacted by the pandemic for the duration of 2020 or longer, and we are unable to predict the duration or degree of such impact with any certainty. In response to COVID-19, we have been executing our business continuity plans and evolving our operations to protect the safety of our employees while continuing to provide critical products and services to our customers. Some of the initiatives the Company has undertaken include: Working with our customers to continue to provide our products and services through the pandemic Enhancing our safety protocols including moving the majority of our employees to remote work arrangements Adjusting business operations to address circumstances created by COVID-19 Maintaining effective governance and internal controls in a remote work environment As the crisis continues, we may revise our approach to these initiatives or take additional actions to meet the needs of our employees, customers and the Company and to continue to provide our products and services. Revenues We generate a majority of our revenues on a per transaction or subscription basis, which is derived from contracts that extend up to 60 months from execution. The future success of our business depends on the continued growth of Business-to-Business and Business-to-Business-to-Consumer driving customer transactions, and continued expansion of our platforms into the TMT Market globally through Cloud, Messaging, Digital Transformation and Internet of Things (IoT) markets. As such, the volume of transactions and our ability to expand our footprint in TMT and globally may result in revenue fluctuations on a quarterly basis. Most of our revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars but as we continue to expand our footprint with international carriers, we will become subject to currency translation that could affect our future net sales as reported in U.S. dollars. Our top five customers accounted for 69.6% and 67.9% of net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019, respectively. Contracts with these customers typically run for three to five years. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2020 and 2019. The loss of Verizon as a customer would have a material negative impact on our company. However, we believe that the costs incurred and subscriber disruption by Verizon to replace Synchronoss solutions would be substantial. 32 Table of Contents Current Trends Affecting Our Results of Operations As the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business continues to develop, we are actively monitoring the global situation. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on certain developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, impact on our customers and our sales cycles, impact on our business operations, impact on our customer, employee or industry events, and effect on our vendors, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations is uncertain, but may include, without limitation, impacts to our paying user growth as well as disruptions to our business operations as a result of travel restrictions, shutdown of workplaces and potential impacts to our vendors. Additionally, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, as well as changes in interest rates. Volatile market conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic have and may continue to negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows, due to a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which may cause our revenues to decline relative to our costs. Business from our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution has been driven by the growth in mobile devices globally that are becoming content rich. As these devices replace other traditional devices like PCs, the ability to securely back up content from mobile devices, sync it with other devices and share it with family, friends and business associates have become essential needs and subscriber expectations. Such devices include smartphones, connected cars, personal health and wellness devices and connected home devices. The need for the contents of these devices to be stored in a common cloud are also expected to be drivers of our business in the longer term. Business from our traditional Synchronoss Messaging business has been driven by a resurgence in the need for white label secure messaging platforms that favor the Mobile Network Operators (MNO) business objectives and are not beholden to the objectives of a sponsoring over-the-top (OTT) platform. We believe that messaging drives higher subscriber engagement than any other application in the market today and holds the potential to stimulate new revenue from traditional services and third-party brands. OTT global success has driven MNOs to look at opportunities to preempt and compete with the OTTs which has potential opportunity for Synchronoss future growth to be driven by the need of TMT companies including (and especially) MNOs to embrace Messaging as a Platform (MaaP). MaaP will allow TMT and MNOs to converse with subscribers in an efficient, automated way by streamlining the costs and increasing the effectiveness of self-care, as well as yielding cross-sell upselling of service plans, devices, bundles, etc.. The Synchronoss Advanced Messaging Platform provides state of the art RCS-driven features including the ability to support advanced Peer to Peer communications and introduce new revenue streams driven by commerce and advertising via Application-to-Person capabilities. Companies in the TMT market all face the dilemma of attempting to pivot their businesses to digital execution in order to create experiences that meet the expectations of their subscribers, generate new revenues and streamline costs creating healthier margins at a faster time to market than they have ever operated before. Their challenges feature the lack of skill sets to conceptualize and run day to day digital operations and the lack of resources to integrate their legacy back end systems to enact digital experiences that achieve their business objectives. The growth of Synchronoss Digital Platforms will be driven by the ability to provide TMT companies desire to obtain digital transformation solutions as quickly as possible while educating them on the ability to operate a digital business efficiently. Our Platform as a Service (PaaS) model provides a desirable alternative to heavy capital expenditure spending options often tried internally. The ability for our platforms to create low/no code, new customer digital journeys, virtually on the fly, gives TMT Companies the ability to operate new experiences and businesses without heavily investing in development resources. Synchronoss Advanced Messaging, Cloud and Digital Platforms are poised to bring IoT initiatives to life across MNO and TMT companies creating new use cases that will help stimulate the commercial growth of the robust potential of the IoT market. As new devices and sensors come online in connected cities, Synchronoss, partnering with carriers like AT&T, has technology to unify and harness data from legacy systems; provide analytic insights that fuel automated communications, via our Advanced Messaging Platform between sensors, devices and people; and create a common storage reservoir with our secure Cloud. There is opportunity in many areas of the IoT ecosystem for Synchronoss to support utilizing our Activation, Cloud and Analytics tools. 33 Table of Contents To support our growth, which will be driven by these favorable industry trends mentioned above, we will leverage modular components from our existing software platforms to build new products. We believe that these opportunities will continue to provide future benefits and position us for future revenue growth. We are also making investments in research and development of new products designed to enable us to grow rapidly in the mobile wireless market. Our purchase of capital assets and equipment may also increase based on aggressive deployment, subscriber growth and promotional offers for free or bundled storage by our major Tier 1 carrier customers. We continue to expand our platforms into the converging TMT, MNO, Digital and IoT spaces to enable connected devices to do more things across multiple networks, brands and communities. Our initiatives with AT&T, Verizon, Sprint, British Telecom, Softbank and other CSPs continue to grow both with regard to our current business as well as our new product offerings. We are also exploring additional opportunities through merger and acquisition activities to support our customer, product and geographic diversification strategies. Three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 2020 vs 2019 2020 2019 $ Change Net revenues $ 76,535 $ 77,846 $ (1,311) Cost of revenues* 29,480 33,403 (3,923) Research and development 19,096 19,026 70 Selling, general and administrative 24,640 23,080 1,560 Restructuring charges 4,493 356 4,137 Depreciation and amortization 10,284 20,269 (9,985) Total costs and expenses 87,993 96,134 (8,141) Loss from continuing operations $ (11,458) $ (18,288) $ 6,830 ________________________________ * Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. Net revenues decreased $1.3 million to $76.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease in revenue is primarily driven by the expiration of the STIN Cloud Telephony and Support services agreement and the sunset of certain legacy products offset by new commercial cloud and messaging agreements. Cost of revenues decreased $3.9 million to $29.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The 2020 decrease was primarily due to cost savings initiatives implemented by the Company. These initiatives resulted in a significant decrease in cost of revenues driven mainly by data center consolidation and operating expense savings. Research and development expense increased $0.1 million to $19.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. Research and development remained relatively flat against the comparable period. Selling, general and administrative expense increased $1.6 million to $24.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The 2020 increase was primarily driven by external costs related to outside consultants and legal fees. Restructuring charges were $4.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated in the current year to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. 34 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $10.0 million to $10.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The 2020 decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of amortizable acquired assets in combination with reduced capital expenditures mainly as a result of the data center consolidation efforts, partially offset by the increased amortization of capitalized software. Interest Income was $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The interest income was prim arily attributable to the settlement of the PIK note receivable, which resulted in a reversal of past interest expenses incurred for tax purposes. Income tax. The Company recognized approximately $8.0 million and $1.8 million in related income tax benefit during the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 92.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The effective tax rate was primarily driv en by the impact of the redemption of the Companys interest in STIN, the new NOL carryback provisions discussed above and valuation allowances recorded in domestic and foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by the impact of permanent book-tax differences. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately 10.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the valuation allowance recorded in domestic and foreign jurisdictions offset by certain jurisdictions projecting current tax expense. 35 Table of Contents Discussion of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 vs 2019 2020 2019 $ Change Net revenues $ 153,657 $ 165,951 $ (12,294) Cost of revenues* 64,951 72,356 (7,405) Research and development 38,884 38,707 177 Selling, general and administrative 50,984 52,326 (1,342) Restructuring charges 5,943 777 5,166 Depreciation and amortization 21,640 40,412 (18,772) Total costs and expenses 182,402 204,578 (22,176) Loss from continuing operations $ (28,745) $ (38,627) $ 9,882 ________________________________ * Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. Net revenues decreased $12.3 million to $153.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease in revenue is primarily driven by the expiration of the STIN Cloud Telephony and Support services agreement and the sunset of certain legacy products offset by new commercial cloud and messaging agreements. Cost of revenues decreased $7.4 million to $65.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The 2020 decrease was primarily due to cost savings initiatives implemented by the Company. These initiatives resulted in a significant decrease in cost of revenues driven mainly by data center consolidation and operating expense savings. Research and development expense increased $0.2 million to $38.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. Research and development remained relatively flat against the comparable period. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $1.3 million to $51.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The 2020 decrease was primarily driven by a continued effort to streamline external costs related to outside consultants and legal fees. Restructuring charges were $5.9 million and $0.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated in the current year to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $18.8 million to $21.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The 2020 decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of amortizable acquired assets, partially offset by the increased amortization of capitalized software. Interest Income was $1.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The interest income was prim arily attributable to the settlement of the PIK note receivable, which resulted in a reversal of past interest expenses incurred for tax purposes. Income tax. The Company recognized approximately $20.4 million and $3.2 million in related income tax benefit during the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 83.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2020, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded and in zero tax rate jurisdictions, offset by certain foreign jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. In addition, during the second quarter, the Company recorded a $12.1 million U.S. federal current benefit as a discrete item related to the redemption of its partnership interest in STIN and the related settlement of certain trade receivables. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately 8.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the valuation allowance recorded in domestic and foreign jurisdictions offset by certain jurisdictions projecting current tax expense. 36 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity have been cash provided by operations and capital from our revolving credit facility. Our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash balance was $42.8 million at June 30, 2020. Subsequent to June 30, 2020, the Company received a $13.4 million tax refund for the carryback claim filed in the second quarter of 2020. For further details, see Note 15. Subsequent Events of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. We anticipate that our principal uses of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be to fund the expansion of our business through both organic growth and the expansion of our customer base. Uses of cash will also include technology expansion, capital expenditures, and working capital. At June 30, 2020, our non-U.S. subsidiaries held approximately $6.0 million of cash and cash equivalents that are available for use by our operations around the world. At this time, we believe the funds held by all non-U.S. subsidiaries will be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. However, if these funds were repatriated to the U.S. or used for U.S. operations, certain amounts could be subject to U.S. tax for the incremental amount in excess of the foreign tax paid. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of these earnings, if any, it is not practical to determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the amount. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, credit facility, and our ability to manage working capital and expected positive cash flows generated from operations in combination with continued expense reductions will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the date of filing based on our current business plans. However, as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and our operations evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. Given the economic uncertainty as a result of the pandemic, we have taken actions to improve our current liquidity position, including, reducing working capital, reducing operating costs and substantially reducing discretionary spending. Even with these actions however, an extended period of economic disruption as a result of COVID-19 could materially affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet debt covenants, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition. Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of this MD&A and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, some of which are outside of our control. Revolving Credit Facility In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company drew the $10.0 million from our Revolving Credit Facility. For further details, see Note 7. Debt of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Share Repurchase Program There were no repurchases in 2020. Shares of Preferred Stock In accordance with the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement dated as of October 17, 2017 (the PIPE Purchase Agreement), with Silver Private Holdings I, LLC, an affiliate of Siris (Silver), on February 15, 2018, we issued to Silver 185,000 shares of our newly issued Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, with an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, in exchange for $97.7 million in cash and the transfer from Silver to us of the 5,994,667 shares of our common stock held by Silver (the Preferred Transaction). In connection with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, we (i) filed the Series A Certificate and (ii) entered into an Investor Rights Agreement with Silver setting forth certain registration, governance and preemptive rights of Silver with respect to us (the Investor Rights Agreement). Pursuant to the PIPE Purchase Agreement, at the closing, we paid to Siris $5.0 million as a reimbursement of Silvers reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Preferred Transaction. 37 Table of Contents Certificate of Designation of the Series A Preferred Stock The rights, preferences, privileges, qualifications, restrictions and limitations of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock are set forth in the Series A Certificate. Under the Series A Certificate, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive Preferred Dividends. The Preferred Dividends are due on each Series A Dividend Payment Date. We may choose to pay the Preferred Dividends in cash or in additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event we do not declare and pay a dividend in-kind or in cash on any Series A Dividend Payment Date, the unpaid amount of the Preferred Dividend will be added to the Liquidation Preference. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock participates in dividends declared and paid on shares of our common stock. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into the number of shares of common stock equal to the Conversion Price (as that term is defined in the Series A Certificate) multiplied by the then applicable Conversion Rate (as that term is defined in the Series A Certificate). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock is initially convertible into 55.5556 shares of common stock, representing an initial conversion price of approximately $18.00 per share of common stock. The Conversion Rate is subject to equitable proportionate adjustment in the event of stock splits, recapitalizations and other events set forth in the Series A Certificate. On and after February 15, 2023, holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock have the right to cause the Company to redeem each share of Series A Preferred Stock for cash in an amount equal to the sum of the current liquidation preference and any accrued dividends. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock is also redeemable at the option of the holder upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change (as that term is defined in the Series A Certificate) at a specified premium (Liquidation Value). In addition, the Company is also permitted to redeem all outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock at any time (i) within the first 30 months of the date of issuance for the sum of the then-applicable Liquidation Preference, accrued but unpaid dividends and a make whole amount (known as Redemption Value) and (ii) following the 30-month anniversary of the date of issuance for the sum of the then-applicable Liquidation Preference and the accrued but unpaid dividends. As of June 30, 2020, the Liquidation Value and Redemption Value of the Preferred Shares was $243.1 million. The holders of a majority of the Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, are entitled at each of our annual meetings of stockholders or at any special meeting called for the purpose of electing directors (or by written consent signed by the holders of a majority of the then-outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock in lieu of such a meeting): (i) to nominate and elect two members of our Board of Directors for so long as the Preferred Percentage (as defined in the Series A Certificate) is equal to or greater than 10%; and (ii) to nominate and elect one member of our Board of Directors for so long as the Preferred Percentage is equal to or greater than 5% but less than 10%. For so long as the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock have the right to nominate at least one director, we are required to obtain the prior approval of Silver prior to taking certain actions, including: (i) certain dividends, repayments and redemptions; (ii) any amendment to our certificate of incorporation that adversely effects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock; (iii) issuances of stock ranking senior or equivalent to shares of Series A Preferred Stock (including additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock) in the priority of payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of us; (iv) changes in the size of our Board of Directors; (v) any amendment, alteration, modification or repeal of the charter of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and related documents; and (vi) any change in our principal business or the entry into any line of business outside of our existing lines of businesses. In addition, in the event that we are in EBITDA Non-Compliance (as defined in the Series A Certificate) or the undertaking of certain actions would result in us exceeding a specified pro forma leverage ratio, then the prior approval of Silver would be required to incur indebtedness (or alter any debt document) in excess of $10.0 million, enter or consummate any transaction where the fair market value exceeds $5.0 million individually or $10.0 million in the aggregate in a fiscal year or authorize or commit to capital expenditures in excess of $25.0 million in a fiscal year. 38 Table of Contents Each holder of Series A Preferred Stock has one vote per share on any matter on which holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote separately as a class, whether at a meeting or by written consent. The holders of Series A Preferred Stock are permitted to take any action or consent to any action with respect to such rights without a meeting by delivering a consent in writing or electronic transmission of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock entitled to cast not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize, take or consent to such action at a meeting of stockholders. In addition to any vote (or action taken by written consent) of the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock as a separate class provided for in the Series A Certificate or by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the holders of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote with the holders of shares of common stock (and any other class or series that may similarly be entitled to vote on an as-converted basis with the holders of common stock) on all matters submitted to a vote or to the consent of the stockholders of the Company (including the election of directors) as one class. Under the Series A Certificate, if Silver and certain of its affiliates have elected to effect a conversion of some or all of their shares of Series A Preferred Stock and if the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issued to such holders upon such conversion and any shares of our common stock previously issued to such holders upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock and then held by such holders, plus (ii) the number of shares of our common stock underlying shares of Series A Preferred Stock that would be held at such time by such holders (after giving effect to such conversion), would exceed the 19.9% of the issued and outstanding shares of our voting stock on an as converted basis (the Conversion Cap), then such holders would only be entitled to convert such number of shares as would result in the sum of clauses (i) and (ii) (after giving effect to such conversion) being equal to the Conversion Cap (after giving effect to any such limitation on conversion). Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock which a holder has elected to convert but which, by reason of the previous sentence, are not so converted, will be treated as if the holder had not made such election to convert and such shares of Series A Preferred Stock will remain outstanding. Also, under the Series A Certificate, if the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate voting power of the shares previously issued to Silver and certain of its affiliates held by such holders at the record date, plus (ii) the aggregate voting power of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by such holders as of such record date, would exceed 19.99% of the total voting power of our outstanding voting stock at such record date, then, with respect to such shares, Silver and certain of its affiliates are only entitled to cast a number of votes equal to 19.99% of such total voting power. The limitation on conversion and voting ceases to apply upon receipt of the requisite approval of holders of our common stock under the applicable listing standards. Investor Rights Agreement Concurrently with the closing of the Preferred Transaction, Synchronoss and Silver entered into an Investor Rights Agreement. Under the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement, Silver and Synchronoss have agreed that, effective as of the closing of the Preferred Transaction, the Board of Directors of Synchronoss will consist of ten members. From and after the closing of the Preferred Transaction, so long as the holders of Series A Preferred Stock have the right to nominate a member to the Board of Directors pursuant to the Series A Certificate, the Board of Directors of Synchronoss will consist of (i) two directors nominated and elected by the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock; (ii) four directors who meet the independence criteria set forth in the applicable listing standards (each of whom will be initially agreed upon by Synchronoss and Silver); and (iii) four other directors, two of whom shall satisfy the independence criteria of the applicable listing standards and, as of the closing of the Preferred Transaction, one of whom shall be the individual then serving as chief executive officer of Synchronoss and one of whom shall be the current chairman of the Board of Directors of Synchronoss as of the date of execution of the Investors Rights Agreement. Following the closing of the Preferred Transaction, so long as the holders of Series A Preferred Stock have the right to nominate at least one director to the Board of Directors of Synchronoss pursuant to the Series A Certificate, Silver will have the right to designate two members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Pursuant to the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement, neither Silver nor its affiliates may transfer any shares of Series A Preferred Stock subject to certain exceptions (including transfers to affiliates that agree to be bound by the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement). 39 Table of Contents For so long as Silver has the right to appoint a director to the Board of Directors of Synchronoss, without the prior approval by a majority of directors voting who are not appointed by the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, neither Silver nor its affiliates will directly or indirectly purchase or acquire any debt or equity securities of Synchronoss (including equity-linked derivative securities) if such purchase or acquisition would result in Silvers Standstill Percentage (as defined in the Investor Rights Agreement) being in excess of 30%. However, the foregoing standstill restrictions would not prohibit the purchase of shares pursuant to the PIPE Purchase Agreement or the receipt of shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued as Preferred Dividends pursuant to the Series A Certificate, shares of Common Stock received upon conversion of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or receipt of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, Common Stock or other securities of the Company otherwise paid as dividends or as an increase of the Liquidation Preference (as defined in the Series A Certificate) or distributions thereon. Silver will also have preemptive rights with respect to issuances of securities of Synchronoss in order to maintain its ownership percentage. Under the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement, Silver will be entitled to (i) three demand registrations, with no more than two demand registrations in any single calendar year and provided that each demand registration must include at least 10% of the shares of Common Stock held by Silver, including shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) unlimited piggyback registration rights with respect to primary issuances and all other issuances. Discussion of Cash Flows A summary of net cash flows follows (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2020 2019 2020 vs 2019 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,608 $ 18,564 $ (16,956) Investing activities (6,934) (20,250) 13,316 Financing activities 9,991 (73,574) 83,565 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are personnel and related costs, telecommunications and facility costs related primarily to our cost of revenue and general operating expenses including professional service fees, consulting fees, building and equipment maintenance and marketing expense. Cash flows from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $1.6 million cash provided by operating activities, as compared to $18.6 million of cash used in operating activities for the same period in 2019. The decrease of cash used by operating activities of $17.0 million was primarily due to a significant tax refund received in the prior year. Cash flows from investing for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $6.9 million cash used for investing, as compared to $20.3 million in cash used in investing activities during the same period in 2019. The cash used for investing in the current year was primarily related to the purchase of fixed assets and investment in capitalized software offset by the sale of certain IP address assets. The net decrease in cash from investing activities from the prior year mainly related to the net proceeds from the purchases and sales of marketable securities in the prior year that were not present in the current period. Cash flows from financing for six months ended June 30, 2020 was $10.0 million of cash provided, as compared to $73.6 million of cash used by financing activities for the same period in 2019. The cash provided from investing activities was attributable to the $10.0 million drawdown from our Revolving Credit Facility in the current quarter. The net change in cash provided from financing activities from the prior year is primarily attributable to the cash provided from the Revolving Credit Facility offset by repayments for our Convertible Senior Notes in 2019. 40 Table of Contents Effect of Inflation Although inflation generally affects us by increasing our cost of labor and equipment, we do not believe that inflation has had any material effect on our results of operations during 2020 and 2019. We do not expect the current rate of inflation to have a material impact on our business. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of contingent consideration, office equipment and colocation services and contractual commitments under third-party hosting, software licenses and maintenance agreements. The following table summarizes our long-term contractual obligations as of June 30, 2020 (in thousands). Payments Due by Period Total 2020 2021-2023 2024-2025 Thereafter Capital lease obligations $ 62 $ 8 $ 49 $ 5 $ Revolving Credit Facility $ 10,000 $ 10,000 $ $ $ Interest Operating lease obligations 83,044 6,743 34,526 18,852 22,923 Purchase obligations* 24,976 17,541 7,435 Total $ 118,082 $ 34,292 $ 42,010 $ 18,857 $ 22,923 _______________________________ * Amount represents obligations associated with colocation agreements and other customer delivery related purchase obligations. Uncertain Tax Positions Unrecognized tax positions of $3.5 million at June 30, 2020 are excluded from the table above as we are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We do not expect that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease over the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to utilize accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a fiscal period. The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to a companys financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. These estimates and assumptions take into account historical and forward looking factors that the Company believes are reasonable, including but not limited to the potential impacts arising from COVID-19 and public and private sector policies and initiatives aimed at reducing its transmission. As the extent and duration of the impacts from COVID-19 remain unclear, the Companys estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making these estimates, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q for certain matters bearing risks on our future results of operations. 41 Table of Contents During the six months ended June 30, 2020, the Company made changes in its accounting policies over Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. These updates are described in detail in Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation . Aside from the adoption of Topic 326, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 during the six months ended June 30, 2020. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards see Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation included in Part I, Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.