ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 1 Financial Information of this Form 10-Q. The words Synchronoss, we, our, ours, us, and the Company refer to Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, hopes, should, continues, seeks, likely or similar expressions, indicate a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business and financial performance. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We caution investors not to place substantial reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this quarterly report. These statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. All numbers are expressed in thousands unless otherwise stated. Overview Synchronoss is a leading provider of white label cloud, messaging, digital and network management solutions that enable our customers to keep subscribers, systems, networks and content in sync. We help our customers to connect, engage and monetize subscribers in more meaningful ways by providing trusted platforms through which end users can sync and store content and connect with one another and the brands they love. Our mission is to help our customers create new revenue streams, reduce the cost of innovation, and captivate their subscribers. Our core product sets allow our customers to create a positive experience throughout their subscribers lifecycle by engaging, onboarding and managing the network to ensure reliable service. ENGAGE: 26 Table of Contents Personal Cloud: Backup, manage and engage with content. A dvanced Messaging: multi-channel messaging, peer-to-peer (P2P) communications and application-to-person (A2P) commerce solutions. Email Suite: White label consumer email solutions. ONBOARD: Backup and Restore: Backup, view and restore subscriber content across operating systems and devices. Out of Box Experience: Streamline the activation of new services and devices. Content Transfer: Effortlessly move content between mobile devices. Digital Experience Platform: Customer journey and workflow design, development, orchestration and experience management. NETWORK: Total Network Management (TNM) : integrated application suite that designs, procures, manages and optimizes telecom network infrastructure. The Company currently operates in and markets its solutions and services directly through its sales organizations in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Revenues We generate most of our revenues on a per transaction or subscription basis, which is derived from contracts that extend up to 60 months from execution. The future success of our business depends on the continued growth of Business-to-Business and Business-to-Business-to-Consumer driving customer transactions, and continued expansion of our platforms into the TMT Market globally through Cloud, Messaging and Digital markets. As such, the volume of transactions and our ability to expand our footprint in TMT and globally may result in revenue fluctuations on a quarterly basis. Most of our revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars but as we continue to expand our footprint with international carriers, we will become subject to currency translation that could affect our future net sales as reported in U.S. dollars. Our top five customers accounted for 71.4% and 68.3% of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, respectively. Contracts with these customers typically run for three to five years. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2022 and 2021. The loss of Verizon as a customer would have a material negative impact on our company. However, we believe that the costs incurred and subscriber disruption by Verizon to replace Synchronoss solutions would be substantial. Current Trends Affecting Our Results of Operations Business from our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution has been driven by the growth in mobile devices globally that are becoming content rich. As these devices replace other traditional devices like PCs, the ability to securely back up content from mobile devices, sync it with other devices and share it with family, friends and business associates have become an essential need and subscriber expectation. Such devices include smartphones, connected cars, personal health and wellness devices and connected home devices. The need for the contents from these devices to be stored in a common cloud is also expected to drive our business in the longer term. Business from our traditional Synchronoss Messaging business (Email) has been driven by a resurgence in the need for white label secure messaging platforms that favor the Mobile Network Operators (MNO) business objectives and are not beholden to the objectives of a sponsoring over-the-top (OTT) platform. We believe that messaging drives higher subscriber engagement than any other application in the market today and holds the potential to stimulate new revenue from traditional services and third-party brands. OTT global success has driven MNOs to look at opportunities to preempt and compete with the 27 Table of Contents OTTs which provides a potential opportunity for Synchronoss future growth to be driven by the need of TMT companies including (and especially) MNOs to embrace Messaging as a Platform (MaaP). MaaP will allow TMT and MNOs to converse with subscribers in an efficient, automated way by streamlining the costs and increasing the effectiveness of self-care, as well as yielding cross-sell upselling of service plans, devices, bundles, etc. The Synchronoss Advanced Messaging Platform provides state of the art RCS-driven features including the ability to support advanced Peer to Peer communications and introduce new revenue streams driven by commerce and advertising via Application-to-Person capabilities. Companies in the TMT market all face the dilemma of attempting to pivot their businesses to digital execution in order to create experiences that meet the expectations of their subscribers, generate new revenue and streamline costs creating healthier margins at a faster time to market than they have ever operated before. Their challenges feature the lack of skill sets to conceptualize and run day to day digital operations and the lack of resources to integrate their legacy back end systems to enact digital experiences that achieve their business objectives. We expect the growth of Synchronoss Digital Platforms will be driven by the ability to provide TMT companies desire to obtain digital transformation solutions as quickly as possible while educating them on the ability to operate a digital business efficiently. Our Platform as a Service (PaaS) model provides a desirable alternative to heavy capital expenditure options often tried internally. The ability for our platforms to create low/no code, new customer digital journeys, virtually on the fly, gives TMT companies the ability to operate new experiences and businesses without heavily investing in development resources. To support our growth, which we expect to be driven by these favorable industry trends mentioned above, we plan to leverage modular components from our existing software platforms to build new products. We believe that these opportunities will continue to provide future benefits and position us for future revenue growth. We are also making investments in research and development of new products designed to enable us to grow rapidly in the mobile wireless market. Our purchase of capital assets and equipment may also increase based on aggressive deployment, subscriber growth and promotional offers for free or bundled storage by our major Tier 1 carrier customers. We continue to expand our platforms into the converging TMT, MNO, and Digital spaces to enable connected devices to do more things across multiple networks, brands and communities. Our initiatives with our customers continue to grow both with regard to our current business as well as our new product offerings. We are also exploring additional opportunities to support our customer, product and geographic diversification strategies. Discussion of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change 2022 2021 2022 vs 2021 Net revenues $ 65,866 $ 65,499 $ 367 Cost of revenues 1 24,839 28,637 (3,798) Research and development 15,791 17,397 (1,606) Selling, general and administrative 17,897 17,928 (31) Restructuring charges 685 713 (28) Depreciation and amortization 8,034 9,867 (1,833) Total costs and expenses 67,246 74,542 (7,296) Loss from operations $ (1,380) $ (9,043) $ 7,663 ________________________________ 1 Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. 28 Table of Contents Net revenues increased $0.4 million to $65.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in revenue was the result of continued strong subscriber growth in the Companys Cloud business and the launch of an RCS platform. Revenue growth was partially offset by revenue received from a non-recurring advanced messaging contract in the previous year and the sunsetting of legacy products. Cost of revenues decreased $3.8 million to $24.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The 2022 decrease was primarily attributable to continued efforts to streamline our business operations and reduce costs as well as the continued realization of a more profitable revenue mix. Research and development expense decreased $1.6 million to $15.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. T he research and development costs decreased year over year mainly as a result of executed cost savings initiatives to streamline our workforce, reduce vendor spend and overhead costs. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased slightly to $17.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. We executed significant strategic cost reductions since 2019 reducing our selling, general and administrative costs $11.3 million or 39% by optimizing our workforce, reducing vendor spend and lowering facility costs. These strategic cost savings have favorably impacted our current and prior period selling, general and administrative costs. Restructuring charges were $0.7 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $1.8 million to $8.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. The 2022 decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of amortizable acquired assets in combination with reduced capital expenditures mainly as a result of efforts to streamline business operations, partially offset by the increased amortization of capitalized software. Income tax. The Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately (4.4)% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded and certain foreign jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. This decrease was partially offset by a discrete income tax benefit recorded in the period associated with the release of certain reserves for uncertain tax benefits. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately 1.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded and in zero rate jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash provided by operations and the remaining proceeds from the financing transactions. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $21.7 million at March 31, 2022. We anticipate that our principal uses of cash and cash equivalents will be to fund our business, including technology expansion and working capital. At March 31, 2022, our non-U.S. subsidiaries held approximately $6.7 million of cash and cash equivalents that are available for use by our operations around the world. At this time, we believe the funds held by all non-U.S. subsidiaries will be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. However, if these funds were repatriated to the U.S. or used for U.S. operations, certain amounts could be subject to U.S. tax for the incremental amount in excess of the foreign tax paid. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of these earnings, if any, it is not practical to determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the amount. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, financing sources, and our ability to manage working capital and expected positive cash flows generated from operations in combination with continued expense reductions will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the filing date of this Form 10-Q based on our current business plans. However, given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and our operations as well as geopolitical developments, we will 29 Table of Contents continue to assess our liquidity needs. Given the economic uncertainty as a result of the pandemic, we have taken actions to improve our current liquidity position, including, reducing working capital, reducing operating costs and substantially reducing discretionary spending. Even with these actions however, an extended period of economic disruption could materially affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet debt covenants, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition. Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of this MD&A and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, some of which are outside of our control. For further details, see Note 7. Debt and Note 9. Capital Structure of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Discussion of Cash Flows A summary of net cash flows follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (2,693) $ 2,261 Investing activities (5,399) (5,763) Financing activities $ (1,781) $ Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are personnel and related costs, telecommunications and facility costs related primarily to our cost of r evenue and general operating expenses including professional service fees, consulting fees, building and equipment maintenance and marketing expense. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $2.7 million as compared to $2.3 million of cash provided by operating activities for the same period in 2021. In the current period, the Company generated more cash from earnings compared to the prior year however, the increased cash earnings were offset by earlier vendor and bonus payments that were paid in subsequent periods in the prior year as well as interest from the senior notes. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $5.4 million as compared to $5.8 million in cash used in investing activities during the same period in 2021. The cash used for investing activities in the current year and prior year was primarily related to increased investment in product development for our Cloud offering and capitalization of associated labor costs, in addition to annual vendor payments made in the first quarter. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $1.8 million of cash used to pay the dividend on the Series B Preferred Stock. There was no financing activity in the comparable prior period. Effect of Inflation Inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as occupancy, labor and benefits, and general administrative costs, have not significantly impacted our results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be affected by general inflation in the future. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of contingent consideration, office equipment and colocation services and contractual commitments under third-party hosting, software licenses and maintenance agreements. The following table summarizes our long-term contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total 2022 2023-2025 2026-2027 Thereafter Finance lease obligations $ 897 $ 278 $ 600 $ 19 $ Interest 53,168 8,861 35,446 8,861 Operating lease obligations 51,153 7,809 24,886 14,181 4,277 Purchase obligations 1 55,809 16,473 39,336 Senior Note Payable 141,077 141,077 Total $ 302,104 $ 33,421 $ 100,268 $ 164,138 $ 4,277 _______________________________ 1 Amount represents obligations associated with colocation agreements and other customer delivery related purchase obligations. Uncertain Tax Positions Unrecognized tax positions of $4.1 million at March 31, 2022 are excluded from the table above as we are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We anticipate that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $0.6 million over the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to utilize accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a fiscal period. The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to a companys financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. These estimates and assumptions take into account historical and forward looking factors that the Company believes are reasonable, including but not limited to the potential impacts continuing to arise from COVID-19 and public and private sector policies and initiatives aimed at reducing its transmission. As the extent and duration of the impacts from COVID-19 remain unclear, the Companys estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making these estimates, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q for certain matters bearing risks on our future results of operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards see Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation included in Part I, Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 31 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.