Managements Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K. We also encourage you to read Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors, which contains a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. In addition to the risks described in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, other unknown or unpredictable factors also could affect our results. Therefore, the information in this Form 10-K should be read together with other reports and documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, which may supplement, modify, supersede or update those risk factors. Synchronoss expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Synchronoss expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. This Form 10-K includes industry and market data that we obtained from periodic industry publications, third-party studies and surveys, filings of public companies in our industry and internal company surveys. These sources include government and industry sources. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. Although we believe the industry and market data incorporated into this Form 10-K to be reliable, this information could prove to be inaccurate. Industry and market data could be wrong because of the method by which sources obtained their data and because information cannot always be verified with complete certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. In addition, we do not know all of the assumptions regarding general economic conditions or growth that were used in preparing the forecasts from the sources relied upon or cited herein. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview At Synchronoss, we build products that deliver trusted and engaging experiences for our customers and their subscribers at the moments that matter most. Our mission is to provide leading cloud, digital, messaging and network management platforms our customers use to connect, engage and monetize subscribers in more meaningful ways. Our technologies act as a catalyst to enable and unlock new capabilities in our customers organizations, creating value through new experiences for their end users and capitalizing on the rapidly converging services, connected devices, networks and applications . Our businesses span primarily across four pillars and focus on driving profitable growth in business-to-consumer (B2C), business-to-business (B2B), enterprise and indirect channel (i.e., resellers/dealers) experiences. White Label Personal Cloud: Cloud sync, backup, storage, device set up, content transfer and content engagement for user generated content. Messaging: White label consumer email solutions. A dvanced, multi-channel messaging peer-to-peer (P2P) communications and application-to-person (A2P) commerce solutions. Digital: Customer journey and workflow design, development, orchestration and experience management. Total Network Management (TNM) : integrated application suite that designs, procures, manage s and optimizes telecom network infrastructure. 4 Table of Contents At Synchronoss, we are focused on delivering value to our customers and their end users through: Managing Complexity: Many companies struggle with legacy infrastructure and extensive software development lifecycles due to competing priorities. Within Synchronoss, we focus on managing and reducing the complexity, making it simple for our customers to deliver the trusted experiences their (end user) customers expect to have with them. Our platforms resolve complexity with back-end data and system frameworks to create simple, easy use cases to end users and subscribers. AI and Machine Learning: Our platforms, products and solutions operate with the assistance of analytics, smart tagging, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, reporting and other data-driven insights. Our technology uses data to help shape user experiences, summarize reporting, prompt next best actions and recommendations and conduct automated dialogue with subscribers. Trust & Dependability: We are committed to providing high-quality, dependable services to our customers. To ensure reliability, system uptime and other service offerings, our transaction management is guaranteed through Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Our platforms offer a complete customer management solution, including exception handling, which we believe is one of the main factors that differentiates us from our competitors. Extensibility, Relevance & Scalability: Our platforms and solutions are built in a modular fashion, thereby conducive to be extended dynamically and enabling our customers to offer solutions that are relevant to current market situations, with the goal of providing them with the competitive edge required for them to be successful. We support expanding transaction volumes reliably and cost effectively with platforms built to scale. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is deployed across more than 95 million devices, managing 20 billion entities in the Cloud and performing more than 4 million synchronizations per day. Security & Reliability The marketplace is fraught with a constantly changing security threat landscape and increasingly vulnerable to attacks . Various governing bodies and companies are on heightened alert and aware of these increasing threats. Customers rely on us to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of sensitive company and client information including the systems and platforms they reside on. We also aims to safeguard the reputation of the company and its customers in the marketplace, maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulatory standards , and protect the privacy of user information. All of our platforms have security oversight and are governed from an information security standpoint by the Synchronoss Information Security Program which is designed to achieve these goals and priorities. Who We Serve At Synchronoss, we help our customers accelerate and monetize value-add services to drive growth, retention and enable differentiated experiences. Our technologies appeal to a diverse group of customers in a converging TMT space including: Communication service providers (CSP) Cable operators/multi-services operators (MSO) Media and Technology Companies with multi-customer-facing channels in global markets OEMs with embedded connectivity (e.g., smartphones, laptops, tablets and mobile internet devices) Mobile Insurance Providers Our platforms, products and solutions operate in a white label capacity serving a diverse range of customers in the Telecommunications, Media and Technology (TMT) markets and enabling our customers to drive differentiated and trusted experiences with their customer. Telecommunications, Media and Technology TMT companies operate and/or market white label instantiations of Synchronoss Cloud, Messaging, and Digital platforms, products and solutions to power new, digitally enhanced experiences for their subscribers and employees. TMT companies use our platforms to author and manage new workflows and customer experiences, orchestrate data from existing back-office systems and create personalized customer experiences across channels and touch points (e.g., online, mobile apps, call centers and care, retail, self-service, etc.) . 5 Table of Contents Operators CSPs, MSOs and Mobile Insurance Providers market white - label implementations of our Synchronoss Cloud, Messaging, and Digital platforms, products and solutions to their subscribers around the world. CSPs and MSOs market and re-sell the value-added services powered by our technology to their subscribers as part of stand-alone subscriptions, value-added bundles or use our technologies directly to enhance their digital offerings and workflow. CSPs and MSOs license Synchronoss Personal Cloud to enhance their value-added service offerings to subscribers who purchase and lease mobile devices and network connectivity - storing and syncing their user generated content (e.g., videos, photos, documents, contacts, music etc.). CSPs and MSOs license Synchronoss Advanced Messaging and Email to enable white label multichannel messaging services including advanced P2P, A2P transactions and brand/advertiser ecosystems. Our customers include global service providers such as AT&T, BT, Verizon, Vodafone, T-Mobile, Softbank and MSOs like Comcast, Altice, Charter and Mediacom. These customers utilize our platforms and services to service both consumer and enterprise customers. How We Go to Market We market our solutions and services directly through our sales organizations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). We have invested significantly in our sales, marketing and operations to expand our historically North American presence and revenue weighting to a global presence especially in the EMEA and APAC markets. Sales We sell our platforms, products, and services through a direct sales force, with strategic partners and in collaboration with our customers to re-sell services to their end customers and subscribers. Our sales professionals are well versed in our platforms, products and services with domain understanding of market trends, demands and conditions that our current and potential customers are facing. Marketing The Synchronoss Corporate Marketing team is the face of our organization. Their mission is to deliver the right strategy, tools, support and customer acquisition initiatives that accelerate our growth. They play a vital role in promoting our products, discovering new markets, and driving subscriber growth, retention, and loyalty initiatives for all cloud deployments globally. What We Deliver - Our Platforms Synchronoss Personal Cloud Platform Synchronoss Cloud platforms, products and solutions are designed to create an engaging and trusted customer experience for Operator subscribers from device purchase, service onboarding and ongoing content management and engagement. The Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is a secure and highly scalable, white label platform that allows our carriers customers to protect, engage with, and manage their personal content and gives our operator customers the ability to increase average revenue per user (ARPU) Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is specifically designed to support smartphones, tablets and wirelessly enabled consumer electronics such as wearables for health and wellness, cameras, tablets, e-readers, personal navigation devices, and GPS enabled devices, as well as connected automobiles. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution features products that facilitate the transfer of mobile content from one smart device to another . Mobile Content Transfer: Our Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer solution is an easy-to-use product whose client enables a secure, peer-to-peer, wireless transfer of content from one mobile smart device to another in a carrier retail location or at home/work, etc. Our solution can transfer select data classes that may include photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts, and call logs, across operating systems including iOS and Android. 6 Table of Contents Backup & Transfer: Our Synchronoss Backup & Transfer solution is a variation of Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer that offers the same peer-to-peer transfer of select data classes across smart mobile devices and major operating systems and also offers the ability to send supported data classes that may include photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts and call logs up to the cloud for temporary storage and then restore the content back into the new device or to a new device with the same client. Messaging Platform Synchronoss Messaging Platform powers mobile messaging and mailboxes for hundreds of millions of telecommunication subscribers. Our Advanced Messaging platform is a powerful, secure , intelligent, white-label messaging platform that expands capabilities for Operators and TMT companies to offer P2P messaging via Rich Communications Services (RCS). Our Mobile Messaging Platform (MMP) is poised to provide a single standard ecosystem onboarding and management to brands, advertisers and message wholesalers. Advanced Messaging: Our Advanced Messaging platform supports rich messaging channel in both RCS and other Real-Time Communication (RTC) and enables rich, P2P communications and creates new commerce and revenue opportunities across channels via A2P experiences for Operators and other brands. Our messaging platform operates in tandem with Messaging-as-a-Platform (MaaP), Messaging Marketplace as well as dedicated, third-party clients and native OEM clients, providing an end-end to messaging platform and monetization tools to the operators, CpassS players and brands. E-Mail: Our Email suite provides service providers with a secure, white-label, back-end framework for a branded email service that provides the opportunity to introduce and promote services that can be monetized. Our carrier branded Email solution offers leading anti-virus & anti-spam and malware technology to keep the integrity and security of the customer experience and protection of subscriber data to carrier standards. Our Email solution is an important repository for critical communications with an intuitive and feature-rich mobile and desktop email experience ensuring stickiness and increasing customer lifetime value. Total Network Management The Synchronoss Total Network Management application provides operators with the tools and software to design their physical network, streamline their infrastructure purchases, and manage and optimize comprehensive network expense for leading top tier carriers around the globe. spatialSUITE: Our spatialSUITE provides enterprise-wide access to timely, accurate, and comprehensive network information including physical location, specifications, attributes, connectivity and capacity for every inside-plant and outside-plant asset. It delivers data across the enterprise to support provisioning, planning and design, construction, fault and event management, work order management, customer service, marketing and other critical business functions. The automation and ease of integration of our platform is designed to enable our customers to lower the cost of new subscriber acquisitions and enhance the accuracy and reliability of customer transactions. Interconnect NOW (iNOW): Our iNOW provisioning system eliminates manual handling of service orders and manages the full order lifecycle between customer and supplier via automation and rules-based validation. iNOW includes an interface that powers bulk provisioning needs and an open API to seamlessly integrate to other carrier systems. iNOW also provides an electronically bonded gateway platform enabling rapid electronic order confirmations and status updates between bonded carriers. Finally, completed order information flows to Financial Analytics providing integrated and automated order to billing reconciliation functionality. Financial Analytics: Our Financial Analytics Platform is a comprehensive application suite that helps operators reduce costs, mitigate risks, enforce financial compliance and controls, and increase operational efficiencies. Financial Analytics ingests any supplier invoice (in any format) through a unique software-driven process with 100% of the detail. Invoices are managed via automated audit and payment workflow tightly coupled with a software driven dispute management lifecycle, providing a true procurement-to-payment process on network expenses and disputes across a carriers organization. Digital The Synchronoss Digital Platform is a suite of technology, tools and solutions that includes digital experience creation and management, automated provisioning, artificial intelligence and financial analytics that service a broad swatch of TMT markets. 7 Table of Contents By equipping our customers with a toolkit of capabilities, they can design, deploy and manage end user customer journeys and workflows easily and quickly from one central platform that also integrates across front end customer engagement channels as well as enterprise business systems (e.g. CRM, POS) allowing non-citizen developers to configure rather than code experiences. The platform sits between customer-facing touch points and a customers existing back-office systems to orchestrate data, workflows and processes into digital customer journeys that interface with end user channels creating user experiences that can be centrally managed and coordinated with less resources than is typical in a traditional IT environment. Digital Experience Platform (DXP) is a purpose-built, low-code experience creation and management toolset that sits between our customers end-user facing applications and their existing back end systems, enabling the authoring and management of customer journeys in a cloud-native no/low-code environment. Our Digital Activation Module is powered by DXP and allows Operators and indirect mobility resellers to activate mobility plans with carriers without large, dedicated teams and affords flexibility at a fraction of the cost and time to go to market. Demand Drivers for Our Business In todays business landscape, Digital Transformation is not new or novel anymore; it is a necessary way of doing business in a landscape where access to technology has become democratized and the effects of citizen developers can change entire industries overnight. TMT providers need to digitally transform to increase and find new sources of revenue, reduce operational cost and complexity and improve the appeal of their products and services to better compete with new standards set by over-the-top (OTT) competitors. Overall Trends in the TMT Market Convergence Digital Transformation Regulation Disintermediation 5G The biggest growth driver of the next five years is predicted to be the global adoption of 5G networks, and the epoch change in business that comes with it. In the U.S alone, telecom giant Ericsson predicts 320M 5G subscribers by 2025 with 86% of Deloitte-surveyed networking executives expecting advanced wireless solutions to transform their business within three years. 5G is being ushered in by network operators as a platform for innovation, not simply a next-generation improvement to network infrastructure. 5G is a hundred times faster than the current 4G technology, capable of supporting one hundred times more devices / km 2 with a 50X improvement in total latency. While the extra speed and capacity that 5G provides is important, the improvements in network latency will usher in an entirely new spectrum of use cases that require instantaneous processing of large, multi-device data sets and faster, Artificial Intelligence decision-making at the edge. With 5G still in its infancy we believe there is significant opportunity to evolve our Personal Cloud and Advanced Messaging products to deliver a connected, personalized, 5G-enhanced experience for consumers. According to a recent study by Ericsson - with over 35,000 participants from 22 countries representing the opinions of over 1 billion smartphone users globally - 43% of smartphone users are willing to pay a significant premium for a 5G plan expect new applications and services as a part of the offering. And with that new, shiny plan 5G users are expected to consume, on average, 2-3X more data than their 4G counterparts with an expected 76% of that traffic being attributed to video by 2025. As more smart devices come online and more personal content is uploaded in 4K/8K Ultra-HD we believe the demand for consumer cloud services will expand exponentially. To meet that demand. over the next five years, we believe our white-label Personal Cloud product will transform into a personal content engagement platform that organizes and enhances a users digital life, creating meaningful connections between friends and family, and puts them back in control of their personal data. With the worldwide edge computing market forecasted to reach ~$250B in 2024, emerging markets leapfrogging to 5G infrastructure, and over 50% of the world expected to have 5G coverage by 2025 we believe these factors will create a significant breeding ground for 5G-backed innovation and customer expansion. By leveraging our existing relationships with the worlds largest mobile and broadband network operators and driving increased consumption and engagement with our more than 7 million Personal Cloud user base, we believe we are uniquely positioned to be the leading global provider of white label, 5G consumer cloud engagement apps. 8 Table of Contents Competition Competition across our markets is incredibly diverse, dynamic and nuanced in an increasingly interconnected landscape of rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, new product introductions and converging spaces and services. We face the following categories of competitors: OTT Service & Platform Providers - Apple, Google, Dropbox, Box, Microsoft and Amazon all provide personal cloud services closely integrated to their respective technology or service platforms. White Label Platform Providers - The field of platform-independent, white label personal cloud providers has consolidated in recent years with Funambol, One Drive and others competing for Operator distribution deals. However, these providers target second and third tier regional operators with low-risk, revenue share business models and do not generally pose a real threat to Tier 1 world-wide Operators. The emerging RCS marketplace is intensely competitive across the globe. Leading OTT device and OS platform providers, led by Google, Samsung along with prominent online platform providers such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, WeChat, and LINE have created a radically new market for communication and monetization that is turning messaging into a new, virtual OS. System Integrators - Accenture, Amdocs and others engage our customers in long term contracts for services focused on digital transformation. CRM and BPM Providers - Major providers of CRM and other systems of record such as Salesforce, Pega Systems and Vlocity Telecom Expense Management (TEM) Providers major providers of both wholesale and retail TEM software and services such as TEOCO and Tangoe. Telecom Service Order Management Providers major providers of software that manage the full order lifecycle of telecommunications service orders such as Neustar. Order management applications and processes developed/utilized by Operators also present competition. Geospatial Network Planning Providers major providers of software that manage the planning and design of physical communication networks such as Bentley, GE Smallworld, and 3-GIS. To compete against global platform providers, we are compelled to maximize our natural advantages through the relationships we have with our customers and partners and the unique value we offer them: bottom line increase in revenue and margins. We believe we compete favorably across these factors and are unhindered by legacy constraints. However, some of our competitors may have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services, the ability to bundle a broader range of products and services, larger marketing budgets, established marketing relationships, access to larger user bases, major distribution agreements with hardware manufacturers and resellers, and greater financial, technical, and other resources. Human Capital At Synchronoss, we believe that our growth and success are attributable in large part to our diverse employee base and an experienced management team, with a mission to make Synchronoss a great place to work. We continue to invest in our employees, as well as developing and promoting our team-oriented culture, and believe that these efforts provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2020, we had 1,598 full-time employees located in India, North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific regions. None of our employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We have a purpose-driven culture, with a focus on employee input and well-being, which we believe enables us to attract and retain exceptional talent. We offer learning and development programs for all employees. Employees are able to actively voice their questions and thoughts through many internal channels, including our company townhall meetings and employee engagement surveys. While we have always had distributed teams collaborating around the globe, the COVID-19 pandemic provided an unexpected experiment in remote work, as the vast majority of our employees pivoted to working from home starting in March 2020. In May 2020, we announced that most employees will continue to have the option to work remotely even after we reopen our offices. This flexible location policy has unlocked opportunities to source, connect, and hire talent in more locations. We believe it will also enable us to retain talent, as employees can continue to work for Synchronoss if they need or want to relocate. A key focus of our human capital management approach is our commitment to improving inclusion and diversity. In 2020, our focus was on building sustainable systems to champion inclusion and diversity via three critical channels growing our 9 Table of Contents Communities program (employee resource groups), equipping our managers to build and lead inclusive teams, and making diversity a central component of our recruiting strategy. From a total rewards perspective, Synchronoss offers a competitive compensation and benefits package, which we review and update each year. Our annual compensation planning coincides with our feedback cycle where employees and managers have performance conversations to facilitate learning and career development. As part of our compensation review program, we conduct pay equity analyses annually. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2000. Our principal offices are located at 200 Crossing Boulevard Bridgewater NJ. We completed our initial public offering in 2006, and our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SNCR. Available Information Our website is located at www.synchronoss.com and our investor relations website is located at www.synchronosstechnologiesinc.gcs-web.com . We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Synchronoss and Synchronoss Personal Cloud and other trademarks of Synchronoss appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of Synchronoss. Other trademarks or service marks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Annual Report are referred to without the , and SM symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Operation Risks Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or future borrowings may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund liquidity needs or capital expenditures which may impact our ability to expand our operations and invest in new products which could reduce our ability to compete. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in our operating results due to certain factors make our future results difficult to predict. A limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in foreign currency transaction losses. The terms of our secured revolving credit facility require, and additional financing may require, us to meet certain operating covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. We make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We must recruit and retain our key personnel and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees, including issues relating to immigration restrictions, could have a negative impact on our business. Because we recognize revenue for certain products and services ratably over the term of customer agreements and we are subject to complex revenue recognition standard, changes in the value of signed contracts will not be fully reflected in our operating results and changes in these standards may impact our business and results of operations. Our performance and growth depend on our ability to generate customer referrals and develop customer relationships that will enhance our sales and marketing efforts. Many of our products are complex and may contain defects that are detected only after deployment and if that occurs, our reputation may be harmed and may result in loss or delay in market acceptance of our products. Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Consolidation in the communications industry or the other industries that we serve can reduce the number of actual and potential customers. Failures or interruptions of our systems and services could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to conduct our operations and damage relationships with our customers. The quality of our offerings is important to our customers and failure to meet our service level obligations or otherwise fail to offer quality support and services would subject us to penalties and we could lose customers. Our reliance on third-party providers exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control and interruptions or delays in our service due to problems with these third-party providers could adversely affect our business. We may seek to acquire or make investments in companies or technologies which could disrupt our management, dilute our stockholders ownership, increase our debt, and adversely affect our business. Economic, political, market conditions and catastrophic events can adversely affect our business. Downgrades in our credit ratings may increase our future borrowing costs, limit our ability to raise capital or cause our stock price to decline, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to our Business and Industry The financial and operating difficulties in the telecommunications sector, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic, may negatively affect our customers and our business. 11 Table of Contents If we do not continue to improve our operational, financial and other internal controls and systems to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on the continued growth in demand for connected devices and the continued availability of high-speed access to the Internet. Our business depends on businesses adopting our products and existing customers renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our services and any decline in these would harm our operating results. If we fail to (i) compete successfully with existing or new competitors, (ii) adapt to rapid technological change or achieve or (iii) sustain market acceptance of our services and solutions at desired pricing levels, we could lose customers or market share, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain or grow revenue. We rely on strategic relationships with third parties to sell and deliver our solutions and the compatibility of our services with third party applications that our customers use. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and exchange of certain information is subject to possible unfavorable changes. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy applicable to our customers or potential customers may decrease the demand for our solutions or increase our costs. Our expansion into new markets may be subject to uncertainties that could increase our costs to comply with foreign regulatory requirements, disrupt our operations and require increased focus from our management. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights and defend claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology. We collect, process, store and use personal information and other data, and our failure to protect this information and data could damage our reputation and brand and harm our business and operating results. Compliance with changing data protection and privacy laws could require us to incur significant costs or experience significant business disruption. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services. As a result of being a public company, we continue to incur significant costs and devote management time. Changes in tax regulations could adversely affect our effective tax rates and if we are required to collect sales taxes on the services we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales. Risks Related to our Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock Our Series A Preferred Stock contains covenants that may limit our business flexibility and the holders have rights that are preferential to common stockholders. Our stock price may continue to experience significant fluctuations and could subject us to litigation. The decline in the price of our securities and the restatement of our financial results has resulted in private litigation that if results in judgments against us could have a material adverse impact on our business. Other than payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, we have never paid dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Delaware law and provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, therefore depressing the trading price of our common stock. Operation Risks Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or future borrowings which may not be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products which could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue or obtain enough capital to fund our planned capital expenditures and execute on our business strategy. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than our leveraged competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products and enhancements to our platforms or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. In addition, the terms of any future issued equity securities could entitle the holders of those equity securities to rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of 12 Table of Contents debt might have priority over the holders of common stock, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things, (i) develop or enhance our products and platforms, (ii) acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses, (iii) expand operations in the United States or internationally or (iv) respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited which may also require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our activities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycles. Our customers businesses are relatively complex and their purchase of the types of services that we offer generally involve a significant financial commitment, with attendant delays frequently associated with large financial commitments and procurement procedures within an organization. In addition, as we continue to further penetrate the enterprise and the size and complexity of our sales opportunities continue to expand, we have seen an increase in the average length of time in our sales cycles. The purchase of the types of services that we offer typically requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customers organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, many of which are out of our control, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline as it has in the past on a year-over-year basis. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, non-GAAP metrics we may disclose, such as EBITDA, and any corresponding trends in such metrics should not be relied on as an indication that our GAAP results, such as income (loss), will be similar or will follow the same trends. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. If we do not meet our revenue forecasts, we may be unable to reduce our expenses in a timely fashion to avoid or minimize harm to our results of operations. Our revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly as we continue to implement our business strategy. We base our operating expense and capital investment budgets on expected sales and revenue trends, and many of our expenses, such as office and equipment leases and personnel costs, will be relatively fixed 13 Table of Contents in the short term and will increase over time as we make investments in our business. Our estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into sales and actual revenues could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and those variations could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers contracts would adversely affect the overall level and timing of our revenues, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of many of our expenses, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. In the event we are unable to collect on our accounts receivable, it could negatively affect our cash flows, operating results and business. We traditionally have had substantial customer concentration, with a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our top five customers accounted for 68.0% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 69.2% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2020, 2019, and 2018. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products and services of these customers in the end-user marketplace. In addition, revenues from these larger customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions or other factors, some of which may be outside of our control. Further, some of our contracts with these larger customers permit them to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). If any of our major customers experience declining or delayed sales due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices we charge for our services or we could lose the customer. Any such development could have an adverse effect on our margins and financial position and would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock. We are exposed to our customers credit risk. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers and customers with liquidity issues may lead to credit losses for us. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms between 45 and 60 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer payment terms in some markets outside the United States. We use various methods to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits, but these methods cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect this change. We maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. A decrease in accounts receivable resulting from an increase in bad debt expense could adversely affect our liquidity. Our exposure to credit risks may increase if our customers are adversely affected by a difficult macroeconomic environment, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the economic environment. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, that these programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks or preventing us from incurring additional losses. Future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the current or future credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries around the world. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. We also depend on, and many of our customers depend on, non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in orders during fiscal 2020 and certain prior periods. We continue to assess the sustainability of any improvements in these countries and there can be no assurance that our investments in these countries will be successful. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations inside and outside the United States, including impacts from global central bank monetary policy; issues related to the political relationship between the United States and other countries that can affect the willingness of customers in those countries to purchase products from companies headquartered in the United States; the impact of the COVID-19 or other public 14 Table of Contents health epidemics or concerns on our customers component suppliers, and the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others things: Foreign currency exchange rates; Political or social unrest; Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region, including the current economic or health challenges in China and global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties; or instability as a result of Brexit; Environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries; Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; Health or similar issues and the responses thereto, such as a pandemic or epidemic, including the COVID-19 pandemic and responses taken thereto; Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; or Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on our global operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in foreign currency transaction losses, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, given our international operations we currently have, and expect to have in the future, revenue and expenses and related assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency transaction exposure results primarily from transactions with customers or vendors denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity in which we record the transaction. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may positively or negatively affect our business and operating results. We face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates due to the fact that we have non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated revenue and positively affects the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated expenses. If foreign currencies were to weaken or strengthen relative to the U.S. dollar, we might elect to raise or lower our international pricing, which could potentially impact demand for our services. Alternatively, we might opt not to adjust our international pricing as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could potentially have a positive or negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, our financial performance may be impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates when it comes to our non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses. The third-party vendors and suppliers to whom we owe payments for non-U.S. dollar denominated expenses may or may not decide to adjust their pricing to reflect fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If there continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, we will continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results due to revaluing our assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity that recorded the asset or liability, and the translation of our non-U.S. denominated revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars may affect the year-over-year comparability of our operating results. The terms of our secured revolving credit facility require us to meet certain operating covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. In October 2019, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Citizens Bank, N.A. that is secured by a lien covering substantially all of our assets, other than our existing real property. The revolving credit facility contains customary covenants that limit the ability of our company and our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, (1) incur additional indebtedness, (2) pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, (3) sell assets, (4) make certain investments and (5) grant liens. These covenants are subject to exceptions and qualifications set forth in the credit agreement. The financial covenants set forth in the credit agreement include a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, each of which will be tested at the end of each fiscal quarter. If we default under the terms of the revolving credit facility or any future debt facility, the lender may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us or to immediately cease operations. Further, if we are liquidated, the lenders right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock. The lender could declare a default upon the occurrence of any event that they interpret as a material adverse effect as defined under the loan agreement. Any declaration by the lender of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. 15 Table of Contents We make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable or align with our company vision. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth, including expenditures to develop new services or enhance our existing services, enhance our operating infrastructure, market and sell our product offerings and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including failures to align new initiatives with our established corporate vision and direction, which could lead to a misapplication of our resources. These new investments are inherently risky and may involve distracting management from current operations, create greater than expected liabilities and expenses, provide us with an inadequate return on capital, include other unidentified risks and, ultimately, may generally not be successful. Further, our ability to effectively integrate new services and investments into our business may affect our profitability. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue and financial performance. We must recruit and retain our key management and other key personnel and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that these individuals have established and maintain with our customers and within the industries in which we operate contribute to our ability to maintain good relations with our customers and others within those industries. The loss of any members of senior management or other key personnel could materially impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise effectively manage our business. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Further, in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel at times can be intense and as a result we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments and new product delivery objectives. If we are unable to maintain or expand our direct sales capabilities, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenues. In addition, if we are unable to maintain or expand our product development capabilities, we may not be able to meet our product development goals. Further, we rely on the expertise and experience of our senior management team. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, none of them or any of our other management personnel is obligated to remain employed by us. The loss of services of any key management personnel could lower productive output, interrupt our strategic vision and make it more difficult to pursue our business goals successfully. Our employee retention and hiring may be adversely impacted by immigration restrictions and related factors Competition for skilled personnel is intense in our industry and any failure on our part to hire and retain appropriately skilled employees could harm our business. Our ability to hire and retain skilled employees is impacted, at least in part, by the fact that a portion of our professional workforce in the United States is comprised of foreign nationals who are not United States citizens. In order to be legally allowed to work for us, these individuals generally hold immigrant visas (which may or may not be tied to their employment with us) or green cards, the latter of which makes them permanent residents in the United States. The ability of these foreign nationals to remain and work in the United States is impacted by a variety of laws and regulations, as well as the processing procedures of various government agencies. Changes in applicable laws, regulations or procedures could adversely affect our ability to hire or retain these skilled employees and could affect our costs of doing business and our ability to deliver services to our customers. In addition, if the laws, rules or procedures governing the ability of foreign nationals to work in the United States were to change or if the number of visas available for foreign nationals permitted to work in the United States were to be reduced, our business could be adversely affected, if, for example, we were unable to hire or no longer able to retain a skilled worker who is a foreign national. Employing foreign nationals may require significant time and expense and our foreign national employees may choose to leave after we have made this investment. While a foreign national who is working under an immigrant visa tied to his or her employment by us may be less likely to choose to leave our Company than a similarly situated employee who is a United States national or a green card holder (as leaving our employ could mean also having to leave the United States), this may not always be the case. Additionally, many of our foreign national employees hold green cards, which means that they have greater flexibility to leave our Company without facing the risk of also having to leave the United States. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to revenue recognitions standards and because we recognize revenue for certain products and services ratably over the term of customer agreements upturns or downturns in the value of signed contracts will not be fully and immediately reflected in our operating results and any changes in the standards could impact our business. We offer certain of our products and services primarily through fixed or variable commitment contracts and recognize revenue ratably over the related service period, which typically ranges from twelve to twenty-four months. As a result, some portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is revenue from contracts entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in signed contracts in any quarter will not be fully and immediately reflected in revenue for that quarter but may instead negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to offset this reduced revenue. Similarly, revenue attributable to an increase in contracts signed in a particular quarter will not be fully and immediately recognized, as revenue from new or renewed contracts is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. Because we incur certain sales costs at the time of sale, we may not recognize revenues from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales processes. Timing differences of this nature could cause our margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. As we introduce new services or products, revenue recognition could become increasingly complex and require additional analysis and judgment. Additionally, for new contracts with existing customers, we may negotiate and revise previously used terms and conditions of our contracts with these customers and channel partners, which may also cause us to revise our revenue recognition policies. As our arrangements with customers change, we may be required to defer a greater portion of revenue into future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our performance and growth depend on our ability to generate customer referrals and to develop referenceable customer relationships that will enhance our sales and marketing efforts. A failure to accomplish these objectives could materially harm our business. In our business, we depend on end-users of our solutions to generate customer referrals for our services. We also depend on members of the communications industry, financial institutions, legal service providers and other third parties who use our services to recommend them to a larger customer base than we can reach through our direct sales and internal marketing efforts. These referrals are an important source of new customers for our services and generally are made without expectation of compensation. We intend to continue to focus our marketing efforts on these referral partners in order to expand our reach and improve the efficiency of our sales efforts. We also recognize that having respected, well known, market-leading customers who have committed to deploy our solutions within their organizations will support our marketing and sales efforts, as these customers can act as references for us and our product offerings. Our ability to establish and maintain these customer relationships is important to our future profitability. The willingness of these types of customers to provide referrals or serve as anchor or reference customers depends on a number of factors, including the performance, ease of use, reliability, reputation and cost-effectiveness of our services as compared to those offered by our competitors, as well as the internal policies of these customers. We may not be able to cultivate or maintain the relationships with customers that are necessary to develop those customer relationships into referenceable accounts. The loss of any of our significant referral sources, including our anchor customers, or a decline in the number of referrals we receive or anchor customers that we generate could require us to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of our services, which would increase our costs, potentially lead to a decline in our revenue, slow our growth and generally have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the revenue we generate from our referral and anchor relationships may vary from period to period. Many of our current and planned products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in telecommunications networks. If that occurs, our reputation may be harmed. Our products are highly complex, and we cannot assure customers that our extensive product development, production and integration testing is, or will be, adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could affect customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. As a result, we might have to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that have been supplied to customers. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by customers or customers end users and other losses to us or to our customers or end users. These occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, in the loss of sales, or in the need to create provisions, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 17 Table of Contents Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions is an issue of critical importance for us and for our customers and users who rely on our systems to store and exchange large volumes of information, much of which is proprietary and confidential. There appears to be an increasing number of individuals, governments, groups and computer hackers developing and deploying a variety of destructive software programs (such as viruses, worms and other malicious software) that could attack our computer systems or solutions or attempt to infiltrate our systems. We make significant efforts to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, solutions and source code. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers, it is virtually impossible for us to mitigate this risk entirely because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. Like all software solutions, our software is vulnerable to these types of attacks. An attack of this type could disrupt the proper functioning of our software solutions, cause errors in the output of our customers work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers and other destructive outcomes. If an actual or perceived breach of our security were to occur, our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our solutions and we could face lawsuits and potential liability, any of which could cause our financial performance to be negatively impacted. Though we maintain professional liability insurance that may be available to provide coverage if a cybersecurity incident were to occur, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be available or that available coverage will be sufficient to cover losses and claims related to any cybersecurity incidents we may experience. There is also a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse or theft of information or assets (including source code), or damage to assets by people who have gained unauthorized access to our facilities, systems or information, which could lead to the disclosure of portions of our source code or other confidential information, improper usage and distribution of our solutions without compensation, illegal or inappropriate usage of our systems and solutions, jeopardizing of the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems, manipulation and destruction of data, defects in our software and downtime issues. More generally, the COVID-19 pandemic has increased attack opportunities available to criminals, as they attempt to profit from disruptions and the resulting shift in companies and individuals working remotely and online, as well as the increase in electronic payments, e-commerce, and other online activity. As such, the risk of cybersecurity incidents is increasing, and we cannot provide assurances that our preventative efforts will be successful. Although we actively employ measures to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of our facilities, systems, software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. The occurrence of an event of this nature could adversely affect our financial results or could result in significant claims against us for damages. Further, participating in either a lawsuit to protect against unauthorized access to, usage of or disclosure of any of our solutions or any portion of our source code or the prosecution of an individual in connection with a cybersecurity breach could be costly and time-consuming and could divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our solutions. A number of core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service and financial transactions, rely on our IT, infrastructure and applications. Defects or malfunctions in our IT infrastructure and applications could cause our service offerings not to perform as our customers expect, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, malicious software, sabotage and other cybersecurity breaches of the types described above could cause an outage of our infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately downtimes, recovery costs and customer claims, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows. The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems could also be jeopardized by a breach of our internal controls and policies by our employees, consultants or subcontractors having access to our systems. If our systems fail or are breached as a result of a third-party attack or an error, violation of internal controls or policies or a breach of contract by an employee, consultant or subcontractor that results in the unauthorized use or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information or customer data (including information about the existence and nature of the projects and transactions our customers are engaged in), we could lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation and incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. We could be liable for damages, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences, any of which liabilities could be significant. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot assure that our existing general liability insurance coverage, coverage for errors and omissions and cyber liability insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in a substantial cost to us and divert managements 18 Table of Contents attention from our operations. Any significant claim against us or litigation involving us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented a number of security measures designed to ensure the security of our information, IT resources and other assets. Nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. Any security breach, misuse of our IT systems or theft of our or our customers intellectual property or data could lead to customer losses, non-renewal of customer agreements, loss of production, recovery costs or litigation brought by customers or business partners, any of which could adversely impact our cash flows and reputation and could have an adverse impact on our disclosure