Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 1 Financial Information of this Form 10-Q. The words Synchronoss, we, our, ours, us, and the Company refer to Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, hopes, should, continues, seeks, likely or similar expressions, indicate a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business and financial performance. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We caution investors not to place substantial reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this quarterly report. These statements speak only as of the date of this quarterly report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. All numbers are expressed in thousands unless otherwise stated. Overview Synchronoss is a leading provider of white label cloud, messaging, digital and network management solutions that enable our customers to keep subscribers, systems, networks and content in sync. We help our customers to connect, engage and monetize subscribers in more meaningful ways by providing trusted platforms through which end users can sync and store content and connect with one another and the brands they love. Our mission is to help our customers create new revenue streams, reduce the cost of innovation, and captivate their subscribers. Our core product sets allow our customers to create a positive experience throughout their subscribers lifecycle by engaging, onboarding and managing the network to ensure reliable service. EngageX: Personal Cloud: Backup, manage and engage with content. Advanced Messaging: multi-channel messaging, peer-to-peer (P2P) communications and application-to-person (A2P) commerce solutions. Email Suite: White label consumer email solutions. OnboardingX: Backup and Restore: Backup, view and restore subscriber content across operating systems and devices. Out of Box Experience: Streamline the activation of new services and devices. Content Transfer: Effortlessly move content between mobile devices. NetworkX: NetworkX: integrated application suite that designs, procures, manages and optimizes telecom network infrastructure. The Company currently operates in and markets its solutions and services directly through its sales organizations in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. 26 Table of Contents Revenues We generate most of our revenues on a per transaction or subscription basis, which is derived from contracts that extend up to 60 months from execution. The future success of our business depends on the continued growth of Business-to-Business and Business-to-Business-to-Consumer driving customer transactions, and continued expansion of our platforms into the TMT Market globally through Cloud, Messaging and Digital markets. As such, the volume of transactions and our ability to expand our footprint in TMT and globally may result in revenue fluctuations on a quarterly basis. Most of our revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars but as we continue to expand our footprint with international carriers, we will continue to be subject to currency translation that could affect our future net sales as reported in U.S. dollars. Our top five customers accounted for 76.1% and 71.4% of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, respectively. Contracts with these customers typically run for three to five years. Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2023 and 2022. The loss of Verizon as a customer would have a material negative impact on our company. However, we believe that the costs incurred and subscriber disruption by Verizon to replace Synchronoss solutions would be substantial. Current Trends Affecting Our Results of Operations Business from our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution has been driven by the growth in mobile devices globally that are becoming content rich. As these devices replace other traditional devices like PCs, the ability to securely back up content from mobile devices, sync it with other devices and share it with family, friends and business associates have become an essential need and subscriber expectation. Such devices include smartphones, connected cars, personal health and wellness devices and connected home devices. The need for the content from these devices to be stored in a common cloud is also expected to drive our business in the longer term. Business from our traditional Synchronoss Messaging business (email) has been driven by a resurgence in the need for white label secure messaging platforms that favor the Mobile Network Operators (MNO) business objectives and are not beholden to the objectives of a sponsoring over-the-top (OTT) platform. We believe that advanced messaging drives higher subscriber engagement than any other application in the market today and holds the potential to stimulate new revenue from traditional services and third-party brands. OTT global success has driven MNOs to look at opportunities to preempt and compete with the OTTs which provides a potential opportunity for Synchronoss future growth to be driven by the need of TMT companies including (and especially) MNOs to embrace Messaging as a Platform (MaaP). MaaP will allow TMT and MNOs to converse with subscribers in an efficient, automated way by streamlining the costs and increasing the effectiveness of self-care, as well as yielding cross-sell upselling of service plans, devices, bundles, etc. The Synchronoss Advanced Messaging Platform provides state of the art RCS-driven features including the ability to support advanced Peer to Peer communications and introduce new revenue streams driven by commerce and advertising via Application-to-Person capabilities. To support our growth, which we expect to be driven by these favorable industry trends mentioned above, we plan to leverage modular components from our existing software platforms to build new products. We believe that these opportunities will continue to provide future benefits and position us for future revenue growth. We are also making investments in research and development of new products designed to enable us to grow rapidly in the mobile wireless market. Our purchase of capital assets and equipment may also increase based on aggressive deployment, subscriber growth and promotional offers for free or bundled storage by our major Tier 1 carrier customers. We continue to expand our platforms into the converging TMT, MNO, and Digital spaces to enable connected devices to do more things across multiple networks, brands and communities. Our initiatives with our customers continue to grow both with regard to our current business as well as our new product offerings. We are also exploring additional opportunities to support our customer, product and geographic diversification strategies. 27 Table of Contents Discussion of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 The following table presents an overview of our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change 2023 2022 2023 vs 2022 Net revenues $ 57,708 $ 65,866 $ (8,158) Cost of revenues1 20,381 24,839 (4,458) Research and development 14,735 15,791 (1,056) Selling, general and administrative 18,309 17,897 412 Restructuring charges 345 685 (340) Depreciation and amortization 7,520 8,034 (514) Total costs and expenses 61,290 67,246 (5,956) Loss from operations $ (3,582) $ (1,380) $ (2,202) ________________________________ 1 Cost of revenues excludes depreciation and amortization which are shown separately. Net revenues decreased $8.2 million to $57.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in 2022. The overall change in revenue was a result of the expected impact from the sale and product sunsetting of the non-strategic DXP and Activation assets in the first half of 2022, the expected deferred revenue run-off in the current quarter, temporary slowdowns in purchasing activity and unfavorable foreign exchange impact related to current macroeconomic conditions. The change in revenue was partially offset by Cloud subscriber growth. Cost of revenues decreased $4.5 million to $20.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in 2022. The 2023 decrease was primarily attributable to changes in revenue mix and continued efforts to streamline our business operations, reduce costs and focus on higher margin products. Research and development expense decreased $1.1 million to $14.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in 2022. The research and development costs decreased year over year mainly as a result of executed cost savings initiatives to streamline our workforce and reduce vendor spend and overhead costs. Selling, general and administrative expense remained flat for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in 2022. The Company executed significant cost savings initiatives for selling, general and administrative costs in fiscal 2021 and 2022. These savings and optimization efforts are reflected in the current and prior quarter results. Restructuring charges were $0.3 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, which primarily related to employment termination costs as a result of the work-force reductions initiated to reduce operating costs and align our resources with our key strategic priorities. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.5 million to $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same period in 2022. The 2023 decrease was primarily attributable to the expiration of amortizable acquired assets in combination with reduced capital expenditures mainly as a result of efforts to streamline business operations, partially offset by the increased amortization of capitalized software. Income tax. The Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $1.1 million and approximately $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately (10.7)% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded and certain jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. The Companys income tax expense for the period is mainly driven by the enacted Section 174 rules that require the Company to amortize qualifying research and development expenses over five years in the U.S. and fifteen years in 28 Table of Contents foreign jurisdictions. The Companys effective tax rate was approximately (4.4)% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where full valuation allowances have been recorded and certain foreign jurisdictions projecting current income tax expense. This decrease was partially offset by a discrete income tax benefit recorded in the period associated with the release of certain reserves for uncertain tax benefits. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash provided by operations and the remaining proceeds from the financing transactions. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $15.6 million at March 31, 2023. We anticipate that our principal uses of cash and cash equivalents will be to fund our business, including technology expansion and working capital. At March 31, 2023, our non-U.S. subsidiaries held approximately $9.7 million of cash and cash equivalents that are available for use by our operations around the world. At this time, we believe the funds held by all non-U.S. subsidiaries will be permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. However, if these funds were repatriated to the U.S. or used for U.S. operations, certain amounts could be subject to U.S. tax for the incremental amount in excess of the foreign tax paid. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of these earnings, if any, it is not practical to determine the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the amount. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, financing sources, and our ability to manage working capital and expected positive cash flows generated from operations in combination with continued expense reductions will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the filing date of this Form 10-Q based on our current business plans. Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the "Forward-Looking Statements" section of this MD&A and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, some of which are outside of our control. For further details, see Note 7. Debt and Note 9. Capital Structure of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Discussion of Cash Flows A summary of net cash flows follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,295 $ (2,693) Investing activities (5,470) (5,399) Financing activities $ (2,299) $ (1,781) Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are personnel and related costs, telecommunications and facility costs related primarily to our cost of revenue and general operating expenses including professional service fees, consulting fees, building and equipment maintenance and marketing expense. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $1.3 million as compared to $2.7 million of cash used in operating activities for the same period in 2022. In the current period, the Company generated cash from operations mainly driven by continued growth in cloud subscribers, reduced operating costs and favorable movements in working capital compared to the first quarter of 2022. Cash used in investingactivities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $5.5 million as compared to $5.4 million in cash used in investing activities during the same period in 2022. The cash used for investing activities in the current year and 29 Table of Contents prior year was primarily related to continued investment in product development for our Cloud offering and capitalization of associated labor costs. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $2.3 million primarily due to dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock. In 2022, $1.8 million of cash used was to pay the dividend on the Series B Preferred Stock. Effect of Inflation Inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as occupancy, labor and benefits, and general administrative costs, have impacted our business. Management does not believe these impacts however have had a material impact on our results of operations during the three months March 31, 2023 and 2022. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be affected by general inflation in the future. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of contingent consideration, office equipment and colocation services and contractual commitments under third-party hosting, software licenses and maintenance agreements. The following table summarizes our long-term contractual obligations as of March 31, 2023 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total 2023 2024-2026 2027-2028 Finance lease obligations $ 1,145 $ 440 $ 705 $ Interest 41,353 8,861 32,492 Operating lease obligations 40,627 6,032 24,115 10,480 Purchase obligations1 41,672 13,471 28,201 Senior Note Payable 141,077 141,077 Total $ 265,874 $ 28,804 $ 226,590 $ 10,480 _______________________________ 1 Amount represents obligations associated with colocation agreements and other customer delivery related purchase obligations. Uncertain Tax Positions Unrecognized tax positions of $4.4 million at March 31, 2023 are excluded from the table above as we are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We anticipate that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $0.3 million over the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to utilize accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a fiscal period. The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to a companys financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. These estimates and assumptions take into account historical and forward looking factors that the Company believes are reasonable, including but not limited to the potential impacts continuing to arise from COVID-19 and public and private sector policies and initiatives aimed at reducing its transmission. As the extent and duration of the impacts from COVID-19 remain 30 Table of Contents unclear, the Companys estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making these estimates, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q for certain matters bearing risks on our future results of operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards see Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation included in Part I, Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.