Managements Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K. We also encourage you to read Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk Factors, which contains a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. In addition to the risks described in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, other unknown or unpredictable factors also could affect our results. Therefore, the information in this Form 10-K should be read together with other reports and documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, which may supplement, modify, supersede or update those risk factors. Synchronoss expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Synchronoss expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. This Form 10-K includes industry and market data that we obtained from periodic industry publications, third-party studies and surveys, filings of public companies in our industry and internal company surveys. These sources include government and industry sources. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. Although we believe the industry and market data incorporated into this Form 10-K to be reliable, this information could prove to be inaccurate. Industry and market data could be wrong because of the method by which sources obtained their data and because information cannot always be verified with complete certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. In addition, we do not know all of the assumptions regarding general economic conditions or growth that were used in preparing the forecasts from the sources relied upon or cited herein. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Our Cloud, Messaging, Digital and Internet of Things (IoT) platforms help the worlds leading companies, including operators, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), as well as Media and Technology providers compete in todays markets by delivering innovative customer experiences that create high value engagement, save costs and create new monetization opportunities. With the help of our technologies and solutions, leading global companies can routinely create game changing interactions with their customers that were previously considered unachievable. Our technologies act as a catalyst to enable and unlock new capabilities in our customers organizations, creating new value through new experiences for their end users. We market our solutions and services directly through our sales organizations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Our platforms give our customers new opportunities in the Telecommunications, Media and Technology (TMT) space, taking advantage of the rapidly converging services, connected devices, networks and applications. Our platforms power products and solutions across the TMT marketplace allow our customers to create forward-looking and compelling customer experiences with less resources. We deliver platforms, products and solutions including: Cloud sync, backup, storage, device set up, content transfer and content engagement for user generated content Advanced, multi-channel messaging peer-to-peer (P2P) communications and application-to-person (A2P) commerce solutions Digital experience management (Platform as a Service or PaaS) - including digital journey creation, journey design products and IoT systems management technology for Smart Buildings, Smart Cities, etc. 4 Table of Contents We help our customers accelerate and monetize value-add services for secure and broadband networks and connected devices. Our technologies appeal to a diverse group of customers in a converging TMT space including: Communication service providers (CSP) Cable operators/multi-services operators (MSO) Media and Technology Companies with multi-customer-facing channels in global markets OEMs with embedded connectivity (e.g. smartphones, laptops, tablets and mobile internet devices) IoT ecosystem participants who use a variety of technologies (e.g. Blockchain) to enable a wide array of devices (e.g. smart buildings, automobiles, connected homes, etc.) sensors, networks and systems. Our industry-leading customers include Tier 1 mobile service providers such as AT&T Inc., BT, Verizon Wireless, Vodafone, Orange, Sprint, T-Mobile and Telstra; Tier 1 cable operators/MSOs and wireline operators like AT&T Inc., Comcast, Cablevision, Charter, CenturyLink, Mediacom and Level 3 Communications; and large OEMs such as Apple and Ericsson. These customers utilize our platforms, technology and services to service both consumer and business customers. We also service technology leaders such as Microsoft, various global System Integrators and well-known household brands such as Amazon among others. The Synchronoss Personal Cloud Platform is a secure and highly scalable white label platform designed to store and sync subscribers personally created content seamlessly to and from current and new devices. This allows our carriers customers to protect, engage with and manage their personal content and gives our Operator customers the ability to increase average revenue per user (ARPU) through a new monthly recurring charge (MRC) and opportunities to mine valuable data that will give subscribers accesses to new, beneficial services. Additionally, our Personal Cloud Platform performs an expanding set of value-add services including facilitating an Operators initial device setup and enhancing visibility and control across disparate devices within subscribers smart homes. The Synchronoss Messaging Platform is the world leader in providing a private, white-label, platform and solution stack to enable telecommunications power for hundreds of millions of subscribers mobile messaging and mailboxes. Our Advanced Messaging Product is a powerful, secure and intelligent white label messaging platform that expands capabilities for Operators and TMT companies to offer P2P messaging via Rich Communications Services (RCS). Additionally, our Advanced Messaging Product powers commerce and a robust ecosystem for Operators, brands and advertisers to execute A2P commerce and data-rich dialogue with subscribers. Our Mobile Messaging Platform (MMP) is poised to provide a single standard ecosystem onboarding and management to brands, advertisers and message wholesalers across Japan, North America and EMEA. The Synchronoss Digital Platform is a suite of technology, tools and solutions that includes digital experience creation and management, automated provisioning, artificial intelligence and financial analytics and service a broad swatch of TMT and IoT markets. Digital Experience Platform (DXP) is a purpose-built, low-code experience creation and management toolset that sits between our customers end-user facing applications and their existing back end systems, enabling the authoring and management of customer journeys in a cloud-native no/low-code environment. This platform can be operated by IT professionals and citizen developers (business analysts, etc.) enabling our customers to bring more compelling and complex experiences to market in less time with fewer and more diverse resources in a real-time, collaborative environment. Digital Activation Platform has been a foundational technology for Synchronoss that was used to remote activate subscriber accounts for the first iPhone that launched in 2007. Since then, Activation has been integrated as a core function within the Digital Experience Platform. This functionality allows Operators and indirect mobility resellers to easily activate mobility plans with carriers without requiring a large dedicated team. It gives these companies the flexibility to conform the journey to support multiple front ends and customer systems at 1/20th of the time and cost. Diversified Digital Solution Suite is a highly specialized collection of offerings designed to create automated workflows to help Operators perform complex financial analytics, validation, reconciliation and governance of supply chain and life cycle within public clouds; facilitate automated, end-to-end, telecom service order life cycle management; and provide planning, designing and maintenance of physical network assets. These technologies integrate into customer Enterprise Resource Planning systems & internal data marts, Inventory Management Systems, Operator Portal and Off-Net Trading Partners. The Synchronoss IoT Platform is a cloud-based Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solution and Advanced Analytics offering that integrates with Building Management Systems (BMS) and sensors to synthesize data and deliver single-pane-of-glass visibility into all control systems (HVAC, lighting, refrigeration, etc.), a companys health, energy consumption and costs. Sophisticated machine learning algorithms generate optimal configurations to reduce overall energy consumption and costs, 5 Table of Contents reduce maintenance and lengthen control systems lifespan. Within the Synchronoss IoT Platform portal, users have access to visualizations, dashboards, canned and Ad Hoc analysis, monitoring and tracking and notifications and alerts. Advanced Analytics packages including equipment optimization, predictive maintenance, failure prediction and anomaly detection. Markets We Serve Our platforms, products and solutions operate in a white label capacity serving a diverse range of customers in the TMT and IoT markets. Telecommunications, Media and Technology TMT companies operate and/or market white label instantiations of Synchronoss Cloud, Messaging, Digital and IoT platforms, products and solutions to power new, digitally enhanced experiences for their subscribers and employees. TMT companies use Synchronoss platforms to author and manage new workflows and customer experiences, orchestrate data from existing back office systems and create personalized customer experiences across channels and touch points (e.g. online, mobile apps, call centers and care, retail, self-service, etc.). This creates new ways to interface with their customers and subscribers that can lower cost and increase revenues and satisfaction. Operators A foundational focus of Synchronoss, CSPs and MSOs market white label implementations of our Synchronoss Cloud, Messaging, Digital and IoT platforms, products and solutions to their subscribers around the world. CSPs and MSOs market and re-sell the value-added services powered by our technology to their subscribers as part of stand-alone subscriptions, value-added bundles or use our technologies directly to enhance their digital offerings and workflow. CSPs and MSOs license Synchronoss Personal Cloud to enhance their value-added service offerings to subscribers who purchase and lease mobile devices and network connectivity - storing and syncing their user generated content (e.g., videos, photos, documents, contacts, music etc.). CSPs and MSOs license Synchronoss Advanced Messaging and Email to enable white label multichannel messaging services including advanced P2P, A2P transactions and brand/advertiser ecosystems. CSPs and MSOs also re-sell our IoT solutions such as Smart Buildings as part of a revitalized set of Operator technology offers. Internet of Things and Smart Buildings Companies in the TMT space as well as OEMs and technology suppliers use Synchronoss Cloud, Messaging and Digital platforms, products and solutions to enable consumer and machine to machine (M2M) experiences across new connected devices in the IoT market (e.g. smart homes, connected automobiles, wearable devices, smart appliances, smart buildings, smart cities, drones, etc.). Synchronoss Cloud platforms, products and solutions provide a single-source storage solution for connected devices that dont have a native data storage solution. Synchronoss Messaging platforms, products and solutions enable dialogue between devices, nodes/sensors and end users of IoT transactions. Synchronoss Digital platforms, products and solutions provide data orchestration and transaction automation capabilities to enable more targeted and secure use of data across IoT devices, networks, nodes/sensors and human participants. Synchronoss Platforms, Products and Solutions Our platforms, products and solutions conduct business-to-consumer (B2C), business-to-business (B2B), enterprise and indirect channel (i.e., resellers/dealers) transactions. The capabilities of our platforms are designed to provide our customers with the opportunity to improve operational performance and efficiencies and identify new revenue opportunities. Our platforms, products and solutions offer flexible, scalable, extensible and relevant solutions backed by service level agreements (SLAs) and exception handling. Our various platforms are designed to be: Carrier Grade: We design our platforms to handle high-volume transactions from carriers rapidly and efficiently, with virtually no down-time. Our platforms are also capable of simultaneously handling millions of device content related transactions on a daily basis to ensure that personal content on all subscriber devices stays fresh and synchronized with the Cloud. Ease of Use: Our platforms resolve complexity with back end data and system frameworks to create simple, easy use cases to end users and subscribers. Our Digital platform provides automation of device, product and service fulfillment relieving manual workflows and providing economy of scale; it orchestrates data from various data and business silos to create new, elegant and powerful end user use cases that existing system frameworks cannot support. Our Messaging platform provides common onboarding 6 Table of Contents for third-party brands that allow them to create bots and other commerce instances and then manage them throughout the customer lifecycle. Our Cloud platform creates an easy cross platform sync and access to subscriber personal data. Data-driven: Our platforms, products and solutions operate with the assistance of analytics, smart tagging, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, reporting and other data-driven insights. Our technology uses data to help shape user experiences, summarize reporting, prompt next best actions and recommendations and conduct automated dialogue with subscribers. Automated: We design our platforms to eliminate manual processes and to automate otherwise labor-intensive tasks, thus improving operating efficiencies and order accuracy and cost reduction. By tracking every order and identifying those that are not provisioned properly, our platforms are designed to substantially reduce the need for manual intervention and reduce unnecessary customer service center calls. The technology of our platforms automatically guides a customer's request for service through the entire series of required steps. Predictable and Reliable: We are committed to providing high-quality, dependable services to our customers. To ensure reliability, system uptime and other service offerings, our transaction management is guaranteed through SLAs. Our platforms offer a complete customer management solution, including exception handling, which we believe is one of the main factors that differentiates us from our competitors. In performing exception handling, our platforms recognize and isolate transaction orders that are not configured to specifications, process them in a timely manner and communicate these orders back to our customers, thereby improving efficiencies and reducing backlog. In the past couple years, if manual intervention is required, our exception handling services are performed through outsourced centers located in Canada and the United States and, where applicable, to other cost-effective geographies. Additionally, our database is designed to preserve data integrity while ensuring fast, efficient, transaction-oriented data retrieval methods. Seamless: Our platforms integrate information across our customers' entire operation, including subscriber information, order information, delivery status, installation scheduling and content stored on the device to allow for the seamless activation and content transfer during the device purchase flow. Through our platforms, the device is automatically activated and consumer's content is available for use via the Cloud, ensuring continuity of service and reducing subscriber churn propensity. CSPs and multi-channel retailers can bundle additional applications during retail phone purchases, and also provide live updates to support new features and new devices. We have built our platforms using an open design with fully-documented software interfaces, commonly referred to as application programming interfaces (API). Our APIs enable our customers, strategic partners and other third parties to integrate our platforms with other software applications and to build best-in-class cloud-based applications incorporating third-party or customer-designed capabilities. Through our open design and alliance program, we believe we provide our customers with superior solutions that combine our technology with best-of-breed applications with the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of commercial, packaged interfaces. Scalable: Our platforms are designed to process expanding transaction volumes reliably and cost effectively. While our transaction volume has increased rapidly since our inception, we anticipate substantial future growth in transaction volumes, and we believe our platforms are capable of scaling their output commensurately, requiring principally routine computer hardware and software updates. Our synchronization and activation platforms routinely support our customers' transactions at the highest level of demands when needed with our current production deployments. We continue to see the number of transactions for connected devices, such as smartphones, mobile Internet devices (MID), laptops, tablets and wirelessly enabled consumer electronics such as cameras, tablets, e-readers, personal navigation devices, global positioning system (GPS) enabled devices, and other connected consumer electronics, to be one of the fastest growing transaction types across all our platforms, products and services. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is deployed across more than 95 million devices, managing 20 billion entities in the Cloud and performing more than 4 million synchronizations per day. Value-add Reporting Tools: Our platforms' attributes are tightly integrated into the critical workflows of our customers and have analytical reporting capabilities that provide near real-time information for every step of the relevant transaction processes. In addition to improving end-user customer satisfaction, these capabilities are designed to provide our customers with value-added insights into historical and current transaction trends. We also offer mobile reporting capabilities for users to receive critical data about their transactions on connected devices. Build Consumer Loyalty and Create New Revenue Streams: Our synchronization services help drive consumers to the CSPs, OEMs or multi-channel retailers by presenting them with a branded application and fully-integrated Web portal that provides convenience, security, and continuity for end user customers, which we believe helps our customers by further building the loyalty of their subscribers. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution creates hundreds of millions of dollars in new revenue for operators and helps reduce subscriber churn by making it easy for subscribers to migrate smartphone content from an old device to a new device. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution enables our carrier customers to sell premium value-add cloud storage solutions 7 Table of Contents as well as cloud enabling premium partner opportunities. We are designing solutions that will allow carriers, OEMs and retail distributors to promote and fulfill new services through mobile channels to better monetize their cloud subscriber base. Efficient: Our platforms' capabilities provide what we believe to be a more cost-effective, efficient and productive approach to enabling new activations across services and channels. Our solutions allow our customers to reduce overhead costs associated with building and operating their own customer transaction management infrastructure. With automated activation and integrated fall out support, our e-commerce platforms centralize customer service expectations, which we believe dramatically reduces our customers subscriber acquisition/retention costs in addition to operating expenses for training and staffing costs. We also provide our customers with the information and tools intended to more efficiently manage marketing and operational aspects of their business, as well as business intelligence required to do targeted up-selling of their products and services. Quick Concept to Market Delivery: The automation and ease of integration of our on-demand platform allows our customers to accelerate the deployment of their services and new service offerings by shortening the time between a subscriber's order and the provisioning of service or activation and enabling of a connected device(s). Extensible and Relevant: Our customers operate in dynamic and fast paced industries. Our platforms and solutions are built in a modular fashion, thereby conducive to be extended dynamically and enabling our customers to offer solutions that are relevant to current market situations, with the goal of providing them with the competitive edge required for them to be successful. The platforms are also designed to be highly customizable to each carriers specific back end systems as well as branding requirements. Secure: By leveraging our identity and access management capabilities consumers can self- register their identity, be verified and credentialed and manage their profile in order to have the best customer experience possible. This solution also supports identity proofing and scoring in order to conduct fraud and cyber security detection and prevention. I: Synchronoss Cloud Platforms Synchronoss Cloud platforms, products and solutions are designed to create a seamless customer experience for Operator subscribers from device purchase, service onboarding and ongoing content management and engagement. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is designed to deliver a competitive, high-value service and revenue stream through an operator-branded experience for subscribers to backup, restore, synchronize and share their personal content across smartphones, tablets, computers and other connected devices from anywhere at any time. The Synchronoss Personal Cloud service is bundled and/or sold to individual or groups of consumers (e.g. a family) for a monthly recurring charge (MRC). Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform gives an Operator better control of the user experience across all aspects of setting up and using a connected device. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is specifically designed to support smartphones, tablets and wirelessly enabled consumer electronics such as wearables for health and wellness, cameras, tablets, e-readers, personal navigation devices, and GPS enabled devices, as well as connected automobiles. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud solution features products that facilitate the transfer of mobile content from one smart device to another and the sync, backup, storage, content management and content engagement features for mobile content. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform is linked to a family of clients designed to enable a persistent relationship between a subscriber and their content across devices and time. Our platform supports clients and data backup across major operating systems including: iPhone operating system (iOS), Android, Windows and works with mobile smart devices, tablets and PCs. Our platform and clients also support the backup, sync, upload and download of data classes including photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts and call logs. Our clients may also feature interactive features intended to stimulate daily use of the product such as smart tagging, image and facial recognition, flashbacks, smart stories, smart push notifications, advanced sharing capabilities, smart album creation with more being added over time. Our Synchronoss Personal Cloud platform and clients may also integrate with select third-party providers to co-opt features that drive third-party application and service engagement which is designed to provide future monetization opportunities to third parties and carriers. Synchronoss Personal Cloud is offered as different tiers of offers according to each Operators service strategy: Freemium Cloud: Free Cloud Storage Tier Regardless of Service Plan, or lead with Free Trial then upsell to premium paid storage tiers Bundled Cloud: Value Add Services (i.e., Phone Insurance, Content Services), Include Cloud Storage as Part of Certain Service Plans. These bundles range from Hero Device, Security, Rate Plan and Low Storage Device Bundles Premium Cloud: Offer Cloud Storage as a Standalone Product that can be Purchased as an Individual Service for a MRC enabling new revenue streams and opportunities to mine valuable data that will give subscribers accesses to new, beneficial services. 8 Table of Contents Mobile Content Transfer Our Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer solution is an easy to use product whose client enables a secure, peer-to-peer, wireless transfer of content from one mobile smart device to another in a carrier retail location or at home/work, etc. Our solution supports secure mobile content transfer across major operating systems including iOS, Android and Windows. Our Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer solution can transfer select data classes that may include photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts and call logs, across operating systems with varying degrees of support in accordance with the openness of the platform. Backup & Transfer Our Synchronoss Backup & Transfer solution is a variation of Synchronoss Mobile Content Transfer that offers the same peer-to-peer transfer of select data classes across smart mobile devices and major operating systems and also offers the ability to send supported data classes that may include photos, videos, music, messages, documents, contacts and call logs up to the cloud for temporary storage and then restore the content back into the new device or to a new device with the same client. This capability supports care channel use cases of securing content during a device wipe and also creates a value-added solution in the case of lost devices, cracked screens and other edge use cases. Furthermore, our Synchronoss Backup & Transfer solution gives the subscriber the capability to establish a cloud account at the point of transfer and an auto sync capability to keep content backed up to the cloud account going forward. This unified experience is designed to drive cloud enrollment at the point of transfer (often during a new line or upgrade) and provide an opportunity to get content into the Cloud to reduce the time of transfer for the next upgrade. Out of Box Experience (OOBE) Synchronoss OOBE is an integrated solution to allow Operators to integrate a first-use, branded set up experience on Android devices from retail and online purchases. Operators integrated this application into Android devices to allow for an easier to use experience for a streamlined device set up, promote value-added service applications for download and introduce the ability to store content in the Cloud - allowing an easier onboarding experience at the next device purchase and/or upgrade. II: Synchronoss Messaging Platforms Synchronoss Messaging platforms, products and solutions enable cross channel, secure communications across connected devices. Advanced Messaging Our Advanced Messaging platform supports advanced messaging in both RCS and Real-Time Communication (RTC) and enables rich, P2P communications and creates new commerce and revenue opportunities across channels via A2P experiences for Operators and other brands. Our messaging platform operates in tandem with Messaging-as-a-Platform (MaaP) technologies as well as dedicated, third-party clients and native OEM clients. P2P Advanced Messaging Client: Advanced Messaging supports an advanced P2P client based on RCS and RTC technologies with compelling data (chat), voice, group and video communication features. Our RCS/RTC client creates new means of conversation providing richer communications, viral distribution via subscribers and provides new gateways for commerce that Short Message Service (SMS) cannot provide. A2P Messaging Commerce: Our A2P solutions are an end-to-end set of capabilities to help Operators, TMT companies and third-party brands establish an AI-driven dialogue with subscribers and consumers. The Advanced Messaging platform aggregates chat bot engines, software development kits (SDKs) and APIs exposing these tools to third-party brands. This functions as an onboarding environment for chat bots, merchandising and advertising to function within a messaging environment. The platform collects user engagement data and through analytics powered dashboards, optimizing bot performance via campaign monitoring that ties into downstream third-party customer relationship management (CRM) operations. Messaging Marketplace: Our MMP is designed to help Operators effectively interface with A2P Providers in a dynamic and automated digital environment. The MMP platform automates and orchestrates the on-boarding of third-party brands and services who participate in an Operators A2P business. MMP provides easy to use tools to register a new A2P provider within an Operators marketplace, integrating with Operator systems (commerce, billing), business terms of use, revenue sharing, etc. MMP provides a dynamic, comprehensive dashboard to give A2P providers real-time visibility to audience engagement, commerce transactions and other transaction-based dynamics. MMP allows for A2P providers to upload new 9 Table of Contents experiences, new offers, manage dialogue with subscribers through chat bots, etc. through an easy-to-use no-code cloud native environment. E-Mail Our Email suite provides service providers with a secure, white-label, back-end framework for a branded email service thats reliable, consistent, and safe while also providing the opportunity to introduce and promote services that can be monetized. Service provider branded messaging is an essential solution for building stronger customer relationships while opening potential new revenue opportunities. It delivers increased subscriber stickiness, resulting in higher trust, lower churn and increased brand reputation through higher-quality service. It also provides more cross-sell and upsell opportunities through seamless integration of advertising, real-time communications, social media, and other value-added services and applications. Our world-class email service has customers across the global market in North America, EMEA and APAC region. Our carrier grade Email suite offers feature-rich, reliable, and secure messaging - on any device - through integrated email, chat, voice, video, personal cloud computing, unlimited storage, security, encryption, and anti-abuse capabilities. This messaging synergy delivers 50% to 70% savings on traditional siloed and hardware based storage solutions while enabling universal access via desktop, smartphones and connected devices to rich seamless integrated experience providing simpler sharing of content, greater privacy and security, enhanced trust around monetization and commerce transactions, and a fast responsive user experience supporting larger mailboxes and unlimited storage. Our carrier branded Email solution offers leading anti-virus & anti-spam and malware technology to keep the integrity and security of the customer experience and protection of subscriber data to carrier standards. Our Email solution is an important repository for critical communications with an intuitive and feature-rich mobile and desktop email experience ensuring stickiness and increasing customer lifetime value. III: Synchronoss Digital Platforms Digital Experience Platform Our Digital Experience platform allows IT professionals, business owners and business analysts to author and manage digital customer experiences in a cloud-native, low/no-code environment. The platform sits between customer-facing touch points and a customers existing back office systems orchestrating data, work flows and processes into digital customer journeys that interface with end user channels creating user experiences that can be centrally managed and coordinated with less resources than is typical in a traditional IT environment. Journey Creator Journey Creator is a purpose-built, easy to use cloud-native toolset that allows IT managers and business owners to collaborate on creating and managing end user experiences across all customer-facing channels. Journey Creator is middleware that sits in between back office systems and customer-facing touch points - integrating orchestrating critical data and functionality into existing channel UI/UX. Journey Creator operates in an any-to-any environment - integrating with any system and any channel UI. Integration: Graphical user interface (GUI) is fully integrated into Journey Creator for creating endpoints and drag-and drop data mapping. Journey Creator supports complex transformations and mappings via GUI. UI Flexibility & Control: Journey Creators dynamic API and libraries enable any channel client to have a rich and dynamic UI that is run by the channel. It is currently optimized for JavaScript clients. Business Logic: Drag and Drop Interface for even complex logic with option to use Groovy script if highly computationally complex rules are required. Omni-channel: DXP is an API-first platform where the state is not held in the client even when the client is a single-page application (SPA). A core journey is defined and channel-specific variants can be configured on top of the core journey to simple re-use. Pause and Resume Experiences: Journey Creator centrally manages different channel UIs and integrates the journeys to back end systems. Because Journey Creator is a common command and control layer, it can carry the state 10 Table of Contents of one channel to the state of another channel, essentially allowing a pause and resume effect from one customer touch point to another. This creates a consistent, friction free customer experience that recognizes the user appropriately as they move from one channel experience to the next. Dev Ops: Journeys are digital content and able to be deployed and rolled back like web content. The engine that runs the journey remains unchanged between releases. Resource Optimization: Journey Creator is designed to lower cost and decrease time to market while increasing the complexity and effectiveness of omni-channel customer experiences. Journey Creator serves as a central, standardized development environment with an efficient and easy to use, low/no-code object-oriented interface that literally links systems and end-user UIs together. Because its centralized and non-developer friendly, a smaller, central team is capable to building and managing complex interfaces with a fraction of the resources and time necessary to manage less sophisticated experience in standard environments. Customer Experience (CX) IQ CXIQ uses analytics, artificial intelligence and completely new methods of gathering actionable insights to produce insights to help our customers improve their channel experiences. CXIQ integrates into Journey Creator to allow for real-time feedback to newly created journeys, allowing experience authors and managers to make real time changes necessary to improve the quality and effect of the journey. Journey Advisor Journey Advisor uses programmed analytics to make intelligent recommendations to customer facing reps and agents. Journey Advisor drives the UI and business rules of a digital sales device (tablet, smart phone, etc.). The analytics that inform the business rules and work flow are derived from customers existing systems and guided by the Synchronoss Insights Platform (SIP) dynamically insert recommended next best actions for a rep based on filters set by a CRM system, customer profile, business rules, etc. Journey Advisor accelerates rep competency from a new hire to a new campaign/offer. This not only assists the reps alignment with forecasted key performance indicators (KPIs), it helps model complex decisions and ultimately solves customer problems in less time. Digital Coach Digital Coach is a tool within DXP that serves as an intelligent dashboard or portal for customer facing reps to assess their performance against their goals and against peers. The SIP creates intelligent work flows around individual and group KPIs and uses gamification. Digital Activation Platform Our Activation technology is a scalable and flexible platform that decouples the order processing customer experience from varied and legacy IT back office order management systems. This enables sale, delivery, and assurance of new Complex Product bundles quickly and cheaply, creates a uniform product portfolio and pricing schema across all Sales Channels and reduces cost while improving the customer experience by reducing error rates and throughput time in processing orders, alarms, etc. The platform is fully scalable, agile and adaptable to future products, services and channel changes; it serves as a future-proof activation platform with end-to-end channel visibility and analytics and features a flexible commercial model or product sale with professional services. Digital Diversified Solutions Suite (Analytics and Financial Optimization of Networks) The Synchronoss Spatial Suite provides an accurate, scalable solution for optimizing every phase of the network asset lifecycle including planning, sales, marketing and customer service. In addition to handling large volumes of customer transactions quickly and efficiently, our platforms are designed to recognize, isolate and address transactions when there is insufficient information or other erroneous process elements. This knowledge enables us to adapt our solutions to automate a higher percentage of transactions over time, further improving the value of our solutions to our customers. Our platforms also offer a centralized reporting platform that provides intelligent, real-time analytics around the entire workflow related to any transaction. This reporting allows our customers to appropriately identify buying behaviors and trends, define their subscriber segments and pin-point areas where their business is changing or could be improved. These analytics enable our customers to upsell new and additional products and services in a targeted fashion that help increase their consumption of our product offerings. The automation and ease of integration of our 11 Table of Contents platforms are designed to enable our customers to lower the cost of new subscriber acquisitions, enhance the accuracy and reliability of customer transactions thereby reducing the inbound service call volumes, and responding rapidly to competitive market conditions to create new revenue streams. Synchronoss Insights Platform (SIP) Synchronoss Insights Platform is an analytics platform delivered as a SaaS solution via a public cloud infrastructure. SIP is designed to ingest raw data and generate and deliver insights through application of pre-coded and ad hoc analyses and Advanced Analytical modules. It supports features to understand key performance indicators, perform iterative investigation and answer business questions using data patterns. Based on the target use case, SIP is configured to deliver value by loading, organizing, validating, and analyzing complex data to obtain and deliver actionable insights. SIPs analytical services provide our solutions with a wide variety of techniques to address customers business challenges: Descriptive Analytics: SIP provides comprehensive ability to review historical metrics and trendlines using time series analysis and KPI monitoring services. Alert Management: SIP supports the ability to define and create alerts on any metric using a configurable rule builder. These alert rules can be threshold based, historical average based or learning models based. SIP also supports the distribution of these alerts via email, SMS, as well as published in the SIP web portal. Predictive Analytics: SIP offers a comprehensive machine learning pipeline flow to process, train, build and select analytic models and deploy them to support specific use cases. In addition to predictive analytics, other examples of advanced analytics use cases include device benchmarking, failure prediction, preventive maintenance, anomaly detection and forecasting. Our analytics platform also provides state of the art data visualization. Using optimized storage of data sets in a variety of repositories that include index store, in-memory store and data lake, SIPs visualization layer supports iterative, ad-hoc visual analysis that is fully interactive. SIPs analytical visualization module offers the following features: Analyze: Tabular, pivot and chart-based analysis in pre-defined or ad hoc execution. Ability for the user to create analysis and share through email, an export or within the portal. Several chart types are supported out-of-the-box including column, bar, pie, donut, area, line, dual axis, scatter, and bubble, etc. Observe: This module offers interactive dashboards that supports KPIs, scorecards and analysis. Users can consume these dashboards in ad hoc fashion or create dashboards themselves by adding any existing analysis into the canvas. Alert: This module support alert visualization, rules configuration, trend analysis and distribution. Synchronoss IoT Platforms Our IoT solutions create an easy to administer, cloud-based dashboard enabling a single source visibility and control to disparate devices, sensors and data pools. Our platforms harvest data from disparate back office, data lakes, devices and systems to build new use cases, automated workflows, activations and more to better manage the performance of IoT ecosystems. Our Digital Experience Platform allows IoT administrators to create and manage administrative experiences and M2M use cases and transactions. Our Cloud Platform provides sync and data transfer between disparate devices and data pools using partitioned storage and Artificial Intelligence (AI) to guide intelligent sync of data as a device or service needs it. Our Advanced Messaging Platform provides IoT administrators with the ability to enhance workflows with automated or semi-automated chatbots guided by AI to create more proficient transactions, visibility and next best actions. Synchronoss Smart Buildings Our Smart Buildings solution is a cloud-based SaaS and advanced analytics offering that integrates with BMS and sensors to synthesize data and deliver single-pane-of-glass visibility into all control systems (HVAC, lighting, refrigeration, etc.), their health, energy consumption and costs. Sophisticated machine learning algorithms generate optimal configurations to reduce overall energy consumption and costs, reduce maintenance and lengthen control systems lifespan. Within the portal, users have access to visualizations, dashboards, canned and ad hoc analysis, monitoring and tracking and notifications and alerts. Advanced Analytics packages including equipment optimization, predictive maintenance, failure prediction and anomaly detection. By utilizing Synchronoss Smart Buildings solution, building and facility managers are able to gain efficiency in system and building operations, as well as realize savings, such as: 12 Table of Contents Optimized and manage equipment settings and schedules with bi-directional integration and control within the Synchronoss Smart Buildings portal Eliminated software license and maintenance costs associated with existing control point software Reduced maintenance and operating costs by quickly integrating multiple sites and buildings across the globe into one portal by leveraging a virtualized cloud delivery model Easy visibility across various stakeholders with access and capabilities configured at the user level (executive dashboards, technician features, KPI reports, etc.) Increased energy efficiency with energy consumption analysis, energy trending and benchmarking, and identification of energy waste with recommendations for improvement Equipment optimization with predictive maintenance, equipment failure prediction to prevent catastrophic damage and breakage, and reduced expense of manual inspections and monitoring Our technician application enables quick and pain-free sensor and gateway installation and activation with automatic integration with the Smart Buildings via the cloud. Synchronoss Smart Buildings dashboards and visualizations offer a set of dashboards containing insights, trends and other meaningful metrics from each building system and integrated sensors (HVAC, Computer Room Air Conditioner, Air Handling Unit, Chiller, temperature and humidity sensors, etc.). Within the Smart Buildings portal, end-users are also able to: Observe metric values in real time and near-real time Go deeper into information being displayed using easy drill downs and filters Ability to quickly create new dashboards on the fly Our Smart Buildings solutions monitoring and tracking capability allows the user to track KPIs and know ahead of time if business objectives and goals are on target, for example, the ability to track actual energy consumption compared to an annual forecast. Users can schedule and run weekly, monthly or quarterly diagnostic health checks of all systems to compare actual functionality against system expectations given equipment age and environmental conditions. Smart Buildings can also produce energy usage reports for month over month and year over year energy consumption analysis. Alerts can be configured using threshold based, heuristic, or machine learning rules and can be set to notify users within the portal, through Email, SMS or a combination. Other alert capabilities include the ability to: Customize escalations for alerts based on type and severity Schedule alert windows (snoozing, only portal during non-business hours, etc.) Acknowledge alerts remotely within Email or directly in the portal Our Smart Buildings solution offers the ability to customize user access by hiding dashboards, metrics, data and limiting capabilities to meet business security needs and improve experience of users. Key users include: Chief Financial Officers (CFO): Synchronoss Smart Buildings Platform is useful for CFOs to gain complete visibility of total building costs, insights to reduce costs and optimize ROI and easy creation and access to automated, data-rich reports. Facility Managers: Synchronoss Smart Buildings Platform gives Facility Managers full visibility to facility information such as total power consumption, building alarms, building settings and can generate customized reports to be shared with Finance and other departments. Facility Engineers: Synchronoss Smart Buildings Platform gives Facility Engineers visibility into various problem points across the facility including alarms, etc. and provides recommendations for next best actions and the ability to update status for ongoing projects and developing situations. Demand Drivers for Our Business In todays business landscape, Digital Transformation is not new or novel anymore; it is a necessary way of doing business in a landscape where access to technology has become democratized and the effects of citizen developers can change entire industries overnight. Synchronoss is positioned to help global leaders stay ahead of ever-changing business dynamics in the TMT and IoT markets. The demand drivers for our business address the needs of enterprise to make effective use of emerging technology to grow their business in new ways, at new speeds and a new cost structure beyond previous business-as-usual (BAU) paradigms. 13 Table of Contents These needs underpin our platform, product and solution strategies to provide forward looking solutions to TMT and IoT providers to respond to new, high stakes business challenges. TMT providers need to digitally transform to increase and find new sources of revenue, reduce operational cost and complexity and improve the appeal of their products and services to better compete with new standards set by over-the-top (OTT) competitors. Overall Trends in the TMT Market Convergence: TMT companies are moving into different spaces (Entertainment, Content, etc.) to pursue new growth. Digital Transformation: Customer experience is the key to revenue growth. From Amazon to Alibaba, companies look to digital technology to enhance experiences and cut cost at the same time. Regulation: Public distrust in Big Tech is increasing global oversight and government policies to enforce data privacy and identity protection. Disintermediation: Opportunity to provide growth-oriented, value-add services has shifted to OTT models. Low Code Just as Content Management Systems (CMS) forever changed web development, low code technology is changing the building and management of digital experiences. Low Code technology simplifies the creation and management of complex customers experiences with simple, easy to use, drag and drop interfaces that replace manual code and script writing. This enables more to be done with fewer resources and opens up customer experience creation and management to non-technical or citizen developers. Messaging as an operating system Starting with the advent of the Chinese OTT app, WeChat, messaging has evolved from email, to text, to chat, to a fully immersive interactive environment where consumers can interface with brands as easily as they do with each other. This has created a huge spike in developers for chat bots and other mini programs that exist within messaging apps. This trend has spread to Japan (Line) and the rest of the world (Facebook, WhatsApp, Snapchat). This all immersive messaging is consuming screen time at such a rate that each large messaging platform has the potential to become its own operating system. Propagation of 5G Network Perhaps the biggest growth driver of the next five years will be the advent of the 5G Network and the epoch change in business that comes with it. 5G tops out at 10 gigabits per second (Gbps). That means 5G is a hundred times faster than the current 4G technology-at its theoretical maximum speed. Perhaps the real value in 5G isnt the speed but the low latency. The 5G Network was designed around enabling use cases in the IoT marketplace and this network will set the IoT market on its way. Smart Cities are expected to be a major driver and customer of the 5G networks. The amount of data traffic will likely grow faster than the number of connections because of the increase of deployment of video applications on M2M connections and the increased use of applications, such as telemedicine and smart car navigation systems, which require greater bandwidth and lower latency. Moreover, more people are moving into urban environments where IoT and Smart Cities are growing. By 2050, there is expected to be 7.5 billion people living in urban environments, equivalent to the entire world population today. Simply put, cities will be forced to get more efficient causing a greater need for IoT device, ecosystem, network and administrative solutions. Growth Strategy Our growth strategy is to establish our platforms as introduce disruptive technology to the TMT and IoT customers and pursue a leadership agenda in strategically select vertical segments of the digital transformation, cloud, advanced messaging and IoT solutions markets. We expect to scale our growth across our platforms and pursue logical extensions of new products and solutions into new markets as it makes sense. We plan to continue to focus our technology and development efforts around helping our customers create new revenue, optimize their cost and operations and innovate the experience of their end customer touch points. Synchronoss technologies and business model create a mutual incentive relationship with our Enterprise customers. With the help of our products, platforms and solutions, we help our customers grow in revenue, margin, subscribers, etc. This growth fuels Synchronoss revenue and opens up new vertical opportunities to help our customers expand their growth with additional platforms and solution. The tenants of our growth strategy are: 14 Table of Contents Driving revenue and margin growth: Our platforms create new premium services for subscription, new monetization of existing channels and new experiences that overperform in sales and other revenue KPIs at lower costs and higher margins. Creating new revenue streams: Our platforms and solutions help create entirely new revenue streams from existing or new channels and new forms of monetization that were not previously possible, driving recurring SaaS revenue growth. Maximizing value for channel partners: Our platforms and solutions provide complementary and revenue enhancing technology and new distribution opportunities for channel partners in TMT and IoT markets creating high volume, low cost growth. Maximizing and expanding our customer base: Our platforms and technologies provide multiple avenues to new growth for our existing customers and partners and give us entry into new customers in the TMT and IoT markets. By expanding our product and market focus for white label services and back office solutions for Operators, MSOs and OEMs to Digital, IoT and Advanced Messaging solutions for the broader TMT market, we have increased the breadth and depth of opportunities for our technologies and significantly grown our potential customers base. With that comes an increased variety of potential Customer engagements in focused verticals markets, shortened sales cycles and higher overall visibility in the TMT/IoT marketplaces. Growing Our Global Reach We have invested significantly in our sales, marketing and operations to expand our historically North American presence and revenue weighting to a global presence especially in the EMEA and APAC markets. Similarly, with our digital platform, we are addressing the issues facing many large, global companies who struggle to create proficient and less costly service distribution across dozens of different countries and regions. This allows us to efficiently sell once and deploy many times inside extremely large companies while delivering impactful global solutions in record time. Scaling our Partnerships In 2019 we built a strong partner network around technology companies that have complimentary solutions, ready channels and a strategic overlap in their customers and prospects. This focus extends the scope of our functionality and appeal to new customers with partner technologies, greatly increase the reach of our sales and marketing - increasing the scale and sales velocity of our platforms, products and solutions at a fraction of the cost. Transition from Licensing to Recurring Healthy growth for Synchronoss is expected to be realized by the deliberate and systematic shift from perpetual license-based revenue to SaaS recurring revenue models. From a customer standpoint, this will allow us to focus and better serve high value relationships characterized by mutual commitment, collaboration on achieving customer KPIs from each deployment, shared success in transactions and other models. Building our growth model around recurring revenue enables increased predictability, stability and reliability of revenue, predictable cash flow, lower risk, and higher value focus in sales and marketing. Additionally, recurring revenue models help with managing expense and investment relative to the success of platform engagements. Sales, Partnerships and Marketing Sales We sell our platforms, products and services through a direct sales force, our strategic partnerships and, collaboration with our customers to re-sell services to their end customers and subscribers. To date, we have concentrated our sales efforts on a range of select verticals of the TMT and IoT markets including telecommunications companies (CSPs, MSOs) OEMs, technology providers, media companies, government and multi-channel retailers both domestically and internationally. Typically, our sales process involves an initial consultative process that allows our customers to better assess the operating and capital expenditure benefits associated with an optimal activation, provisioning, and cloud-based content management architecture. Our sales teams are well trained in our platforms, products and services and well versed in market trends, demands and conditions that our current and potential customers are facing. This enables them to identify and qualify opportunities that are appropriate for our platforms deployments to benefit these customers. Following each sale, we assign account managers to provide ongoing support and to identify additional sales opportunities. We generate leads from contacts made through trade shows, seminars, conferences, events, 15 Table of Contents analyst relationships, social media, market research, our Web site, customers, strategic partners and our ongoing public relations programs. Partnerships We have a dedicated partner outreach organization that functions in tandem with business development within Synchronoss. The Synchronoss Partnership program has three dedicated vectors of focus: Go To Market/Channels: We are pursuing partnerships with technology companies who supply customers with solutions that complement the Synchronoss product and go to market strategy. These partnerships provide access to Synchronoss platforms, products and solutions create channels of distribution supported through the Synchronoss Channel Enablement Program. This portfolio of partners provide access to new sales funnels and scale to Synchronoss offerings. Technology Augmentation: We are pursuing partnerships with technology companies with complementary IP in platforms, products and solutions. Synchronoss is pursuing partnerships with a two-way value-add in technologies that supply strategic functionality to our mutual customers. These partnerships can provide ready-made technologies that allow our platforms, products and solutions to participate in new markets without the investment in new technology. System Integrators: We are pursuing partnerships with system integrators (SI) and consulting firms in order to expose our platforms, products and solutions to a wider range of customers and supply our SI partners with ready-made IP to fulfill on their custom solutions. These partnerships can provide SIs with turnkey technologies to fulfill vertical lines of solutions in the TMT and IoT space and will formulate the basis of a formal Synchronoss Channel Enablement Program featuring toolkits, documentation, a dedicated extranet and other channel support. Maintain Technology Leadership: We strive to continue to build upon our technology leadership by continuing to invest in research and development to increase the automation of processes and workflows and develop complementary product modules that leverage our platforms and competitive strengths, thus driving increased interest by making it more economical for customers to use us as a third-party solutions provider. In addition, we believe our close relationships with our Tier 1 customers can continue to provide us with valuable insights into the dynamics that are creating demand for next-generation solutions. Leverage and Enforce our Intellectual Property: We have a significant repository of granted and filed patents and trademarks, and we expect to use this as a differentiator of our products and services in the marketplace. Marketing We focus our marketing efforts on increasing our direct sales pipeline, increasing adoption and revenue yield in our customers channels and selectively increasing the visibility of Synchronoss and its technologies within our target markets, investors, analysts and the technology trade press. We do this through the following practices and points of emphasis: Growth Marketing Our Growth Marketing team is the most cost-effective, influential and direct path to increased revenue for our Operator customers (and by revenue share, Synchronoss). Our Growth Marketing team collaborates with Operator product owners and channel marketers to create product and marketing strategies and campaigns; increasing subscriber awareness and adoption to our white-label Personal Cloud and Advanced Messaging products. We devise strategies based on bundles, channel mixes against targeted audience segments based on standing Operator adoption KPIs for like services. Together we create business and pricing models that are designed to create an order of magnitude increase in revenue yield for the Operator. This shared incentive gives the Operator incentive to collaborate on new growth-oriented marketing strategies with full visibility to real time results allowing us to adjust channel mix, pricing and other variables real time to achieve higher quarter over quarter revenue growth results. Account Based Marketing (ABM) Our product marketing team works closely with our sales organizations to create custom offers that are digitally promoted to highly targeted prospects and account contacts in targeted verticals via email, text and social media. The campaigns use hand-selected third-party marketing technology platforms that locate new prospects and manage communications and response via automated functionality designed to maximize the ability of our direct sales force to manage multi-layered communications to hundreds of contacts within targeted verticals. Our campaigns are optimized to appeal to carefully scored and weighted ideal customer profiles (ICP) that define the organizations and individuals in that organization best pre-disposed to favorably receive our offer. Our campaigns and content are provided as tools for our direct sales force to interact efficiently with prospects and transition them into our existing 16 Table of Contents pipeline management tools and practices. Each campaign is carefully monitored for increasing effectiveness of engagement and response key performance indicators and provide guidance for the ongoing optimization and refinement of sales driven communications and marketing content. Our ABM tech stack, playbook and sales aides are foundational and can be employed across any of our current and future sales and business development pipelines. Public Relations We generate visibility with joint customer and partner releases and announcements, the soliciting of earned media from prominent industry publishers, the release of thought leadership content and other owned media of interest to our target markets. Our team is active in preeminent technology and industry forums such as Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) and the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA). We participate regularly and invest heavily in our presence at major events, exhibiting and hosting strategic meetings, conducting product demonstrations, speak at keynotes, panels and other forums including the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Europe, Asia and The United States, and are constantly evaluating our ability to participate in new events, forums and technology communities. Product Marketing Our marketing team creates sales materials including presentations, downloadable documents and various multimedia to support our direct sales model. Social Media Marketing Our team distributes updates, tweets and posts across a variety of social media on a company and select Synchronoss leaders. Digital Marketing Our team maintains our corporate web site and creates digital content to be used in ABM and other means of digital outreach. Additionally, we create targeted Search Engine Optimization (SEO) profiles for each product and monitor discovery and engagement KPIs, automated responses, campaign landing pages and inbound direct contact forms. Partnership Marketing Our team works closely with marketing resources from our strategic partners to create content, participate in joint campaigns, speaking engagements and use of marketing development funds. Competition Competition across our markets is incredibly diverse, dynamic and nuanced in an increasingly interconnected landscape of rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, new product introductions and converging spaces and services. The following categories of competitors feature prominently as viable alternatives to the different platforms we offer in the TMT and IoT markets. Our competitors spend significant resources on developing and marketing products and services - far more than Synchronoss is able to spend. To compete against global platform providers, we are compelled to maximize our natural advantages through the relationships we have with our customers and partners and the unique value we offer them: bottom line increase in revenue and margins. Cloud Competitors OTT Service & Platform Providers - Apple, Google, Dropbox, Box, Microsoft and Amazon all provide personal cloud services closely integrated to their respective technology or service platforms. Each cloud competitor pursues a similar formula towards different economic ends. In almost every case, the level of paid subscriber adoption is relatively low (less than 25%). Apple (iCloud) uses cloud to create continuity in the device experience and creates an incentive for Apple customers to remain on iPhones. Google (Google Photos) uses cloud to create engagement opportunities with personal content and harvests meta-data to create new monetization opportunities within its global network. Drop Box is largely platform independent and does pursue premium revenue. However, they mostly focus on super users who use the cloud for business and pay a much higher average revenue per user (ARPU) than any other cloud provider. Microsoft (One Drive) uses cloud to help drive the adoption of Office Online across a variety of platforms and devices Amazon (Photos) bundles its cloud into a prime membership and focuses on integration with Alexa 17 Table of Contents This formula of using cloud to reinforce an existing, dominant revenue stream creates a significant competitive opening for Synchronoss: OTT cloud service providers do not target Operators as their distribution channel and solicit customers at large leveraging captured audiences from their existing sales channels and service bundles. By offering a premium only model, we are able to create value for the lives of Operator subscribers that reinforce existing operator revenue strategies and give the Operator incentive to grow and maintain its paying base. This creates a distinct competitive advantage for Synchronoss to create an effective new revenue channel that offers clear value in daily use to millions of existing subscribers. White Label Platform Providers - The field of platform-independent, white label personal cloud providers has consolidated in recent years with Funambol, One Drive and others competing for Operator distribution deals. However, these providers generally target second and third tier regional operators with low-risk, revenue share business models and do not generally pose a real threat to Tier 1 world-wide Operators. Competitive Advantages for Synchronoss Cloud Platforms Verizon Wireless illustrated these market dynamics in the creation of a multi-hundred-million-dollar revenue stream using a premium instantiation of Synchronoss personal cloud. The success of this premium-only offer validates that cloud trends are equally applicable to Operator subscribers as OTT subscribers. Synchronoss continues to provide the worlds largest white label cloud solution for Operators in which they can generate new services revenue (currently on a flat-to-declining trajectory globally) but can extend a branded relationship to an essential service, capture valuable data to provide better experiences and offer a level of security that has not been demonstrated by OTT competitors. As Verizon continues to over-achieve on its business KPIs, it illustrates a proven model for Operators world-wide to capitalize on service growth. Messaging Competitors: The emerging RCS marketplace is intensely competitive across the globe. Leading OTT device and OS platform providers, led by Google, Samsung along with prominent online platform providers such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, WeChat and LINE have created a radically new market for communication and monetization that is turning messaging into a new, virtual OS. By inventing new, innovative and immersive messaging experiences in China (WeChat) and Japan (LINE), global platform leaders and social networking giants have moved messaging initiatives to the forefront of their global strategies and platform innovation plans. Competitive Advantages for Synchronoss Messaging Platforms Due to our IP in advanced mobile messaging and strong Operator track record and heritage, Synchronoss is well-positioned to take part in the ground floor of the new messaging revenue growth. Synchronoss extended its Operator email contracts in Japan to arm them in their transition to an RCS messaging paradigm. We were selected to provide our RCS/RTC technology and platforms to the first Operator messaging cooperative in Japan, powering their Plus Message offering. Our white label Advanced Messaging Platform offers a comprehensive solution for Operators to take advantage of the onset of RCS messaging: Operator Neutrality - Synchronoss has historically managed discrete confidential contracts between competitive Operators world-wide. This puts us in a unique position to play the role of Switzerland to Operators who are seeking to band together and create national messaging services to offset their collective loss to OTT Messaging Providers. P2P Messaging: Synchronoss Advanced Messaging platform works with various Messaging as a Platform (MaaP) configurations across Operators and OEMs, providing key messaging management services for RCS capable handsets and clients. A2P Commerce: Our Advanced Messaging platform supports native RCS, SMS and Client-driven RCS solutions providing maximum range across devices and operating systems, giving Operators maximum scale for commerce engagement. Brand Ecosystem Management: Our Advanced Messaging platform provides an easy-to-use management portal for brands and Operators to connect commerce to subscribers. 18 Table of Contents Operator-Grade Scale and Security: Our track record with massive, secure Operator installations, meeting highly regulated SLA requirements put Synchronoss in a position to look after the interests of each individual Operator as well as collectives. Digital Competitors System Integrators - Accenture, Amdocs and others engage our customers in long term contracts for services focused on digital transformation. CRM and BPM Providers - Major providers of CRM and other systems of record such as Salesforce, Pega Systems and Vlocity are engaging with our customers in engagements that emulate our Digital Experience Platform. Internal IT - Our customers and IT developers and system administrators are engaged in products to upgrade existing systems that would conflict with our Digital Experience and IoT platforms. Competitive Advantages for Synchronoss Digital Platforms The impact of FAANG (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix and Google) on the market is easy to see by virtue of the market share, revenue and cultural impact attained by like companies. As companies in the TMT space look to reclaim lost market share, revenue and seek to trim costs to compensate, they must find ways to deliver compelling, Omni-channel customer experiences. Synchronoss has invested significantly in revitalizing its digital platform to assist TMT companies in not only catching up but actively competing for the revenue, market share and cultural impact they have lost to FAANG companies. Omni-Channel Innovation - Synchronoss DXP creates an environment where companies can centrally create and manage Omni-channel experiences - allowing total control of channel user experiences creating a continuous and intelligent pause and resume experience across channels. Simple Systems Integration - Synchronoss DXP integrates into any back-office system APIs, extracting mission-critical data and work flows into its Journey Creator environment - using this data to fuel innovative customer experiences into existing channels. This eliminates the need for companies to rip and replace their existing systems in order to innovate, create new revenue and reduce costs. Easy to Operate Tools - Synchronoss DXP is a low/no-code, object-oriented environment that centrally collects back office data and uses this data to create compelling, intelligent user experiences across various end channels. The drag-n-drop journey creation experience is a simple, intuitive way to allow IT developers to operate faster and create an environment easy enough for business analysts and channel owners to collaborate. Cost Efficient creation of FAANG-like Experiences - Synchronoss DXP allows existing systems to support middleware that sits between the back office and channel user experiences to create a centralized command and control center to author user experiences across touch points. This allows companies to author and manage better, more innovative and more effective customer experiences with a fraction of the manpower necessary in a BAU environment. DXP is essential to check all the boxes of digital transformation: new revenue, innovative experiences and reduced costs. IoT Competitors IoT Platform and Solutions providers such as Honeywell, Siemens, GE are among just some of the large competitors in the IoT and Smart Buildings market. Most focus on IoT solutions for their systems and equipment but may over time begin looking at aggregation solutions to provide complete building monitoring and management. Competitive Advantages for Synchronoss IoT Platforms Synchronoss has been closely involved in enabling Operator IoT offerings supporting the provisioning of Internet capable vehicles and wearables. Our white-label business model is accretive to Operators, allowing them to bring new IoT services to market - adding new revenue and new value to IoT Network packages. 19 Table of Contents Our Smart Buildings platform uses automation, orchestration and analytics that bring disparate building systems together - creating energy efficiencies, insights and easier points of management for administrators. This creates an easy to sell, easy to use plug and play, end-to-end solution powering IoT use cases that can be deployed quickly and operated easily. Employees We believe that our growth and success are attributable in large part to our employees and an experienced management team, many members of which have years of industry experience in building, implementing, marketing and selling transaction management solutions critical to business operations. We intend to continue training our employees, as well as developing and promoting our culture, and believe that these efforts provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage. We offer a work environment that enables employees to make meaningful contributions, as well as incentive programs that are designed to continue to motivate, retain and reward our employees. As of December 31, 2019, we had 1,659 full-time employees located in India, North America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. None of our employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements. Available Information Our Web address is www.synchronoss.com . On this Web site, we post the following filings after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A related to our annual stockholders meeting and any amendment to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All such filings are available on the Investor Relations portion of our Web site free of charge. The contents of our web site are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file. The reports filed with the SEC by us and by our officers, directors and significant shareholders are available for review on the SECs website at www.sec.gov . Synchronoss and Synchronoss Personal Cloud and other trademarks of Synchronoss appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of Synchronoss. Other trademarks or service marks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Annual Report are referred to without the , and SM symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The terms of our secured revolving credit facility require us to meet certain operating covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. In October 2019, we entered into a revolving credit facility with Citizens Bank, N.A. that is secured by a lien covering substantially all of our assets, other than our existing real property. The revolving credit facility contains customary covenants that limit the ability of our company and our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, (1) incur additional indebtedness, (2) pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, (3) sell assets, (4) make certain investments, and (5) grant liens. These covenants are subject to exceptions and qualifications set forth in the credit agreement. The financial covenants set forth in the credit agreement include a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, each of which will be tested at the end of each fiscal quarter. If we default under the terms of the revolving credit facility or any future debt facility, the lender may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us or to immediately cease operations. Further, if we are liquidated, the lenders right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock. The lender could declare a default upon the occurrence of any event that they interpret as a material adverse effect as defined under the loan agreement. Any declaration by the lender of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or future borrowings from institutional creditors or from other sources which may not be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue or obtain enough capital to fund our planned capital expenditures and execute on our business strategy. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than our leveraged competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. A reduction in our ability to generate cash available for investment or debt repayment or to make improvements or respond to events that would enhance profitability may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our activities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not meet our revenue forecasts, we may be unable to reduce our expenses in a timely fashion to avoid or minimize harm to our results of operations. Our revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly as we continue to implement our business strategy. We base our operating expense and capital investment budgets on expected sales and revenue trends, and many of our expenses, such as office and equipment leases and personnel costs, will be relatively fixed in the short term and will increase over time as we make investments in our business. Our estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into sales and actual revenues could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and those variations could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers contracts would adversely affect the overall level and timing of our revenues, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of many of our expenses, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. In the event we are unable to collect on our accounts receivable, it could negatively affect our cash flows, operating results and business. 21 Table of Contents Our Series A Convertible Participating Perpetual Preferred Stock (the Series A Preferred Stock) contains covenants that may limit our business flexibility. On February 15, 2018, in accordance with the terms of that certain Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of October 17, 2017 with Silver Private Holdings I, LLC (Silver), an affiliate of Siris Capital Group, LLC (Siris), we issued to Silver 185,000 shares of our newly issued Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, with an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, in exchange for $97.7 million in cash and the transfer from Silver to us of 5,994,667 shares of our common stock held by Silver. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, we filed a Certificate of Designations with the State of Delaware setting forth the rights, preferences, privileges, qualifications, restrictions and limitations on the Series A Preferred Stock (the Series A Certificate). The holders of a majority of the Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, are entitled at each of our annual meetings of stockholders or at any special meeting called for the purpose of electing directors (or by written consent signed by the holders of a majority of the then-outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock in lieu of such a meeting): (i) to nominate and elect two members of our Board of Directors for so long as the Preferred Percentage (as defined in the Series A Certificate) is equal to or greater than 10%; and (ii) to nominate and elect one member of our Board of Directors for so long as the Preferred Percentage is equal to or greater than 5% but less than 10%. For so long as the holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock have the right to nominate at least one director, we are required to obtain the prior approval of Silver prior to taking certain actions, including: (i) certain dividends, repayments and redemptions; (ii) any amendment to our certificate of incorporation that adversely effects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock; (iii) issuances of stock ranking senior or equivalent to shares of Series A Preferred Stock (including additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock) in the priority of payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of us; (iv) changes in the size of our Board of Directors; (v) any amendment, alteration, modification or repeal of the charter of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and related documents; and (vi) any change in our principal business or the entry into any line of business outside of our existing lines of businesses. In addition, in the event that we are in EBITDA Non-Compliance (as defined in the Series A Certificate) or the undertaking of certain actions would result in Synchronoss exceeding a specified pro forma leverage ratio, then the prior approval of Silver would be required to incur indebtedness (or alter any debt document) in excess of $10.0 million, enter or consummate any transaction where the fair market value exceeds $5.0 million individually or $10.0 million in the aggregate in a fiscal year or authorize or commit to capital expenditures in excess of $25.0 million in a fiscal year. There is no guarantee that the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock would approve any such restricted action, even where such an action would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Any failure to obtain such approval could harm our business and result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock differing from those of our common stockholders. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to stockholders before any payment may be made to holders of any other class or series of capital stock, an amount equal to the greater of the stated value of such holders shares of Series A Preferred Stock or the amount that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon our liquidation, dissolution and winding up if all outstanding shares of such series of Series A Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, plus accrued but unpaid dividends. In addition, dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock accrue and are cumulative at the rate of 14.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears in cash or in-kind. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock also have certain redemption rights, including the right to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the Series A Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain events. These dividend and redemption obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, including the requirement that we obtain the consent of the holders of Series A Preferred 22 Table of Contents Stock prior to incurring additional indebtedness under certain circumstances, could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and holders of our common stock. The two members of our Board of Directors elected by the Series A Preferred Stock, Frank Baker and Peter Berger, are affiliated with Silver, which holds all outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the fact that all directors are subject to fiduciary duties to us and to applicable law, the interests of the directors elected by the holders of the Series A Preferred may differ from the interests of our security holders as a whole or of our other directors. If we do not continue to improve our operational, financial and other internal controls and systems to manage our growth and size, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our historic and anticipated growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources and will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls. In particular, our growth will increase the challenges involved in: recruiting, training and retaining technical, finance, marketing and management personnel with the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires; maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction; developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; and effectively managing our personnel and operations and effectively communicating to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies and goals. In addition, the increasing size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that a member of our personnel will engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, breach our contractual obligations, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train our people and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on the continued growth in demand for connected devices and the continued availability of high-speed access to the Internet. The future success of our business depends upon the continued growth in demand for connected devices and business transactions on the Internet, and on our customers having high-speed access to the Internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the Internet infrastructure. While we believe the market for connected devices will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, we cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for connected devices will increase, if at all, and the ability to attract consumers who have historically purchased wireless services and devices through traditional retail stores. If the demand for connected devices were to slow down or decline or the supply of connected devices to our customers is impacted for any reason, such as the novel coronavirus or other public health epidemics or concerns, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. If for any reason the Internet does not remain a widespread communications medium and commercial platform, the demand for our services would be significantly reduced, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any future Internet outages or delays could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the Internet was harmed by security problems such as viruses, worms or other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to Internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service, or increased government regulation and taxation of Internet activity. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, the growth of our business and operating results may be adversely affected. The novel coronavirus outbreak could impact our operations. 23 Table of Contents The ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from China at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in increased travel restrictions, the cancellation or rescheduling of trade shows and other events, and the extended shutdown of certain businesses. The spread of the novel coronavirus throughout the world may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause partners, suppliers and potential customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget. In addition, if the pandemic continues to spread, we may need to limit operations or implement limitations, including work from home policies. The extent to which the coronavirus impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus, the ultimate geographic spread of the coronavirus, the duration of the outbreak, travel restrictions imposed, business closures or business disruption, and the actions taken throughout the world, including in our markets, to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact. As a result our supply chain, financial condition, revenues, profitability and cash flows could be adversely affected. Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries around the world. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. We also depend on, and many of our customers depend on, non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in orders during fiscal 2019 and certain prior periods. We continue to assess the sustainability of any improvements in these countries and there can be no assurance that our investments in these countries will be successful. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations inside and outside the United States, including impacts from global central bank monetary policy; issues related to the political relationship between the United States and other countries that can affect the willingness of customers in those countries to purchase products from companies headquartered in the United States; the impact of the novel coronavirus or other public health epidemics or concerns on our customers component suppliers, and the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following: Foreign currency exchange rates; Political or social unrest; Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region, including the current economic or health challenges in China and global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties; or instability as a result of Brexit; Environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries; Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic, including the recent outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus; Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; or Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on our global operations. Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include but are not limited to general economic and business conditions, the overall demand for cloud-based products and services, general political developments and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Economic uncertainty may exacerbate negative trends in consumer spending and may negatively impact the businesses of certain of our customers, which may cause a reduction in their use of our platforms or increase their likelihood of defaulting on their payment obligations, and therefore cause a reduction in our revenues. These conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions may make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, these factors could result in quarterly fluctuations in our business performance. Finally, changes in these conditions may result in a more competitive environment, resulting in possible pricing pressures. 24 Table of Contents Our business could be affected by acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters and the widespread outbreak of infectious diseases. Current world tensions could escalate, and this could have unpredictable consequences on the world economy and on our business. The ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from China at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in increased travel restrictions, the cancellation or rescheduling of trade shows and other events, and the extended shutdown of certain businesses. The spread of the novel coronavirus throughout the world may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause partners, suppliers and potential customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget. In addition, if the pandemic continues to spread, we may need to limit operations or implement limitations, including work from home policies. These or any further political or governmental developments or health concerns in countries could result in social, economic and labor instability. If, as a result of such events, we experience a reduction in demand for our products, platforms or services, or the supply of products or components to our customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. A natural disaster, telecommunications failure, power outage, cybersecurity attack, war, terrorist attack, health epidemics or pandemics, or other catastrophic event could cause us to suffer system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in product development, lack of products provided to our customers, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. An event of this nature could also prevent us from fulfilling customer orders or maintaining certain service level requirements, particularly in respect of our SaaS and hosted offerings. While we have developed certain disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of these types of events, a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, non-GAAP metrics we may disclose, such as EBITDA, and any corresponding trends in such metrics should not be relied on as an indication that our GAAP results, such as income (loss), will be similar or will follow the same trends. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results have varied in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. If we fail to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business could be harmed. If we fail to compete successfully with established or new competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to increase. We compete with independent providers of information systems and services and with the in-house departments of our OEMs and communications services companies customers. Rapid technological changes, such as advancements in software integration across multiple and incompatible systems, and economies of scale may make it more economical for CSPs, MSOs or OEMs to develop their own in-house processes and systems, which may render some of our products and services less valuable or, eventually, obsolete. Our competitors include firms that provide comprehensive information systems and managed services solutions, BYOD providers, systems integrators, clearinghouses and service bureaus. Many of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address the needs of our current or prospective customers. In addition, our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. These relationships and alliances may also result in transaction pricing pressure, which could result in large reductions in the selling prices of our products and services. Our competitors or our customers in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of this potential pricing pressure. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, a failure to offset competitive pressures brought about by competitors 25 Table of Contents or in-house solutions developed by our customers could result in a substantial reduction in or the outright termination of our contracts with some of our customers, which would have a significant, negative and material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The markets in which we market and sell our products and services are highly competitive, and if we do not adapt to rapid technological change, we could lose customers or market share, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain or grow revenue. The industries we serve are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings and are highly competitive with respect to the need for innovation. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete, less marketable or less competitive. We must adapt to these rapidly changing markets by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our products and services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs and further address the markets we serve. Our ability to take advantage of opportunities in the markets we serve may require us to invest in development and incur other expenses well in advance of our ability to generate revenues from these offerings or services. We may not be able to timely adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way. Our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers and/or market share and could adversely affect our ability to sustain or grow revenue. In addition, as we expand our service offerings, we may face competition from new and existing competitors. It is also possible that our customers could decide to create, invest in or collaborate in the creation of competitive products that might limit or reduce their need for our products, services and solutions. Further, we may experience delays in the development of one or more features of our offerings, which could materially reduce the potential benefits to us providing these services. In addition, our present or future service offerings may not satisfy the evolving needs of the industry in which we operate. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to these evolving market needs, due to resource, technological or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, the arrival of new market entrants could reduce the demand for our services or cause us to reduce our pricing, resulting in a loss of revenue and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, the use of internal technologies, developed by our customers or their advisers, could reduce the demand for our services, result in pricing pressures or cause a reduction in our revenue. If we fail to manage these challenges adequately, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on our ability to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our services and solutions at desired pricing levels. Our competitors and customers may cause us to reduce the prices we charge for our services and solutions. Our current or future competitors may offer our customers services at reduced prices or bundling and pricing services in a manner that may make it difficult for us to compete. Customers with a significant volume of transactions may attempt to use this leverage in pricing negotiations with us. Also, if our prices are too high, current or potential customers may find it economically advantageous to handle certain functions internally instead of using our services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of transactions we handle or the number of customers we serve, by generating higher revenue from enhanced services or by reducing our costs. If these or other sources of pricing pressure cause us to reduce the pricing of our service or solutions below desirable levels, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Technology drives our products and services. If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in the industry, or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, customers may not buy our products or use our services. The telecommunications industry uses numerous and varied technologies, and large service providers often invest in several, and sometimes incompatible, technologies. The industry also demands frequent and, at times, significant technology upgrades. Furthermore, enhancing our services revenues requires that we develop and maintain leading tools. We will not have the resources to invest in all existing and potential technologies. As a result, we expect to concentrate our resources on those technologies that we believe have or will achieve substantial customer acceptance and in which we will have appropriate technical expertise. However, existing products often have short product life cycles characterized by declining prices over their lives. In addition, our choices for developing technologies may prove incorrect if customers do not adopt the products that we develop or if those technologies ultimately prove to be unviable. Our revenues and operating results will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain a product portfolio and service capability that is attractive to our current and future customers; to enhance our existing products; to continue to introduce new products successfully and on a timely basis; and to develop new or enhance existing tools for our services offerings. The development of new technologies remains a significant risk to us, due to the efforts that we still need to make to achieve technological feasibility, due to rapidly changing customer markets; and due to significant competitive threats. 26 Table of Contents Our failure to bring these products to market in a timely manner could result in a loss of market share or a lost opportunity to capitalize on new markets for emerging technologies and could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Though acceptance of cloud-based software has advanced in recent years, some businesses may still be hesitant to adopt these types of solutions. Our cloud-based service strategy may not be successful. We enable our customers to offer their subscribers the ability to backup, restore and share content across multiple devices through a cloud-based environment. Some businesses may still be uncertain as to whether a cloud-based service like ours is appropriate for their business needs. The success of our offerings is dependent upon continued acceptance by and growth in subscribers of cloud-based services in general and there can be no guarantee of the adoption rate by these subscribers. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their organizations and, therefore, may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to a cloud-based model for storing, accessing, sharing and managing their content. Because we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue and cash flows from sales of our cloud-based solutions, our success will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of cloud computing for companies in general. Our cloud strategy will continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain profitability. While we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. In addition to software development costs, we incur costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud-based services. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand for our services, the future growth rate and size of the cloud computing market or the entry of competitive services. The expansion of a cloud-based enterprise software market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with cloud computing, as well as the ability of companies that provide cloud-based services to address security and privacy concerns. If we or other providers of cloud-based services experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based services as a whole, including our services, may be negatively affected. If there is a reduction in demand for cloud-based services caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, we could experience decreased revenue, which could harm our growth rates and adversely affect our business and operating results. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and of the international exchange of certain information is subject to possible unfavorable changes, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business and operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state, local and foreign governments become more likely. For example, in recent years, numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and the collection, processing, storage, sharing, disclosure, use or protection of personal information and other data have been enacted. The scope of these laws is expanding, they are subject to differing interpretations and may be costly to comply with and may be inconsistent between countries and jurisdictions or conflict with other rules. Further, laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing and expanding their subscriptions for our services. Any decline in our customer renewals and expansions would harm our future operating results. We enter into subscription agreements with certain of our customers that are generally one to two years in length. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of those subscription agreements is critical to our future success. We cannot provide assurance that any of our customer agreements will be renewed, as our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of the initial term of their agreements. The loss of any customers that individually or collectively account for a significant amount of our revenues would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If our renewal rates are lower than anticipated or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decrease, and our profitability and gross margin may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents If we do not maintain the compatibility of our services with third-party applications that our customers use in their business processes or if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or the marketplace, demand for our services could decline. Our solutions can be used alongside a wide range of other systems such as email and enterprise software systems used by our customers in their businesses. If we do not support the continued integration of our products and services with third-party applications, including through the provision of application programming interfaces that enable data to be transferred readily between our services and third-party applications, demand for our services could decline and we could lose sales or experience declining renewal rates. We will also be required to make our products and services compatible with new or additional third-party applications that are introduced to the markets that we serve and, if we are not successful, we could experience reduced demand for our services. In addition, prospective customers, especially large enterprise customers, may require heavily customized features and functions unique to their business processes. If prospective customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer and that would be difficult for them to develop and integrate within our services, then the market for our products and services may be adversely affected. We may not currently or in the future appropriately leverage advances in technology to achieve or sustain a competitive advantage in products, services, information and processes. Our customers and users regularly adopt new technologies and industry standards continue to evolve. The introduction of products or services and the emergence of new industry standards can render our existing services obsolete and unmarketable in short periods of time. We expect others to continue to develop and introduce new and enhance existing products and services that will compete with our services. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to enhance our current services and to develop and introduce new services that keep pace with technological developments, emerging industry standards and the needs of our customers. We cannot assure that we will be successful in cost-effectively developing, marketing and selling new services or service enhancements that meet these changing demands on a timely basis, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services, or that our new service and service enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. We also cannot assure that the features that we believe will drive purchasing decisions will in fact be the features that our current or potential customers consider most significant. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycles. Our customers businesses are relatively complex and their purchase of the types of services that we offer generally involve a significant financial commitment, with attendant delays frequently associated with large financial commitments and procurement procedures within an organization. In addition, as we continue to further penetrate the enterprise and the size and complexity of our sales opportunities continue to expand, we have seen an increase in the average length of time in our sales cycles. The purchase of the types of services that we offer typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customers organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. We traditionally have had substantial customer concentration, with a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our top five customers accounted for 69.2% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 69.0% for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Of these customers, Verizon accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 . There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products and services of these customers in the end-user marketplace. In addition, revenues from these larger customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions or other factors, some of which may be outside of our control. Further, some of our contracts with these larger customers permit them to terminate our services at any time (subject to notice and certain other provisions). If any of our major customers experience declining or delayed sales due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices we charge for our services or we could lose the customer. Any such development could have an adverse effect on our margins and financial position and would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock. Our revenue for a particular period may be difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results. 28 Table of Contents As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline as it has in the past on a year-over-year basis. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. Because we recognize revenue for certain of our products and services ratably over the term of our customer agreements, downturns or upturns in the value of signed contracts will not be fully and immediately reflected in our operating results. We offer certain of our products and services primarily through fixed or variable commitment contracts and recognize revenue ratably over the related service period, which typically ranges from twelve to twenty-four months. As a result, some portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is revenue from contracts entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in signed contracts in any quarter will not be fully and immediately reflected in revenue for that quarter but may instead negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to offset this reduced revenue. Similarly, revenue attributable to an increase in contracts signed in a particular quarter will not be fully and immediately recognized, as revenue from new or renewed contracts is recognized ratably over the applicable service period. Because we incur certain sales costs at the time of sale, we may not recognize revenues from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales processes. Timing differences of this nature could cause our margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our offerings of new services or products may be subject to complex revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results. As we introduce new services or products, revenue recognition could become increasingly complex and require additional analysis and judgment. Additionally, for new contracts with existing customers, we may negotiate and revise previously used terms and conditions of our contracts with these customers and channel partners, which may also cause us to revise our revenue recognition policies. As our arrangements with customers change, we may be required to defer a greater portion of revenue into future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business. Maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions is an issue of critical importance for us and for our customers and users who rely on our systems to store and exchange large volumes of information, much of which is proprietary and confidential. There appears to be an increasing number of individuals, governments, groups and computer hackers developing and deploying a variety of destructive software programs (such as viruses, worms and other malicious software) that could attack our computer systems or solutions or attempt to infiltrate our systems. We make significant efforts to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, solutions and source code. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers, it is virtually impossible for us to mitigate this risk entirely because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. Like all software solutions, our software is vulnerable to these types of attacks. An attack of this type could disrupt the proper functioning of our software solutions, cause errors in the output of our customers work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers and other destructive outcomes. If an actual or perceived breach of our security were to occur, our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our solutions and we could face lawsuits and potential liability, any of which could cause our financial performance to be negatively impacted. Though we maintain professional liability insurance that may be available to provide coverage if a cybersecurity incident were to occur, there can be no assurance that 29 Table of Contents insurance coverage will be available or that available coverage will be sufficient to cover losses and claims related to any cybersecurity incidents we may experience. There is also a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse or theft of information or assets (including source code), or damage to assets by people who have gained unauthorized access to our facilities, systems or information, which could lead to the disclosure of portions of our source code or other confidential information, improper usage and distribution of our solutions without compensation, illegal or inappropriate usage of our systems and solutions, jeopardizing of the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems, manipulation and destruction of data, defects in our software and downtime issues. Although we actively employ measures to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of our facilities, systems, software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. The occurrence of an event of this nature could adversely affect our financial results or could result in significant claims against us for damages. Further, participating in either a lawsuit to protect against unauthorized access to, usage of or disclosure of any of our solutions or any portion of our source code or the prosecution of an individual in connection with a cybersecurity breach could be costly and time-consuming and could divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our solutions. A number of core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service and financial transactions, rely on our IT, infrastructure and applications. Defects or malfunctions in our IT infrastructure and applications could cause our service offerings not to perform as our customers expect, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, malicious software, sabotage and other cybersecurity breaches of the types described above could cause an outage of our infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately downtimes, recovery costs and customer claims, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows. The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems could also be jeopardized by a breach of our internal controls and policies by our employees, consultants or subcontractors having access to our systems. If our systems fail or are breached as a result of a third-party attack or an error, violation of internal controls or policies or a breach of contract by an employee, consultant or subcontractor that results in the unauthorized use or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information or customer data (including information about the existence and nature of the projects and transactions our customers are engaged in), we could lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation and incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. We could be liable for damages, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences, any of which liabilities could be significant. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot assure that our existing general liability insurance coverage, coverage for errors and omissions and cyber liability insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in a substantial cost to us and divert managements attention from our operations. Any significant claim against us or litigation involving us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented a number of security measures designed to ensure the security of our information, IT resources and other assets. Nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. Any security breach, misuse of our IT systems or theft of our or our customers intellectual property or data could lead to customer losses, non-renewal of customer agreements, loss of production, recovery costs or litigation brought by customers or business partners, any of which could adversely impact our cash flows and reputation and could have an adverse impact on our disclosure