Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Results of Operations Revenue Background . We typically license our DesignWare Core intellectual property products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. Finally, our Global Technical Services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project. Proprietary Rights Synopsys primarily relies upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect its proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 1600 patents issued. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2032. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We currently hold United States and foreign patents on some of the technologies included in our products and will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. We are not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark or license with respect to our proprietary rights. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products infringe on these third party rights. Employees As of October 31, 2012, Synopsys had 8,138 employees, of which 3,355 were based in the United States. 8 Table of Contents Acquisitions in Fiscal 2012 For information about acquisitions we completed during fiscal 2012, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 19, 2012 were: Name Age Position Aart J. de Geus 58 Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Chi-Foon Chan 63 Co-Chief Executive Officer and President Brian M. Beattie 59 Chief Financial Officer Joseph W. Logan 53 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Brian E. Cabrera 47 Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. In May 2012, Dr. Chi-Foon Chan was appointed Co-Chief Executive Officer of Synopsys with Dr. de Geus. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Chi-Foon Chan has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997. Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case Western Reserve University. Brian M. Beattie has served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. From October 1999 to January 2006, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SupportSoft, Inc. From May 1998 to May 1999, he served as Vice President of Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From July 1996 to April 1998, Mr. Beattie served as Group Vice President of Meridian Solutions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From February 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Beattie served as Vice President of Finance, Enterprise Networks, for Nortel Networks Corporation. Mr. Beattie served on the board of directors of Unwired Planet, Inc. (formerly Openwave Systems Inc.) from December 2010 until November 2012. Mr. Beattie holds a Bachelor of Commerce and an M.B.A. from Concordia University in Montreal. Joseph W. Logan has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since September 2006. Previously, he was head of sales for Synopsys North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Brian E. Cabrera has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June 2006. From August 1999 to June 2006, he held various positions with Callidus Software, 9 Table of Contents most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and prior to 2004 as General Counsel and Vice President of Operations and Human Resources. Prior to Callidus, Mr. Cabrera held senior legal positions at PeopleSoft, Netscape Communications, and Silicon Graphics. Mr. Cabrera holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Philosophy and a Masters in Public Administration from the University of Southern California, as well as a Juris Doctorate from the University of Southern California Law School. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Investors should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. The continued uncertainty in the global economy, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the recent global recession, the global economy experienced significant uncertainty, stock market volatility, tightened credit markets, concerns about both deflation and inflation, reduced demand for products, lower consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. Further declines, and uncertainty about future economic conditions, could negatively impact our customers businesses, reducing demand for our products and adversely affecting our business. The recent global recession adversely affected the semiconductor industry. Semiconductor companies generally remain cautious and focused on their costs, including their research and development budgets which capture spending on EDA products and services. These factors could among other things limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Under our business model, we generally expect more than 90% of our total revenue to be recurring revenue, as a substantial majority of our customers pay for licenses over a multi-year period. However, the turmoil and uncertainty caused by recent economic conditions caused some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. If payment defaults by our customers significantly increase or we experience significant reductions in existing contractual commitments, our operating results would be harmed. Furthermore, future periods of decreased committed average annual revenue, customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers, could adversely affect our year-over-year revenue growth. The recent global recession also adversely affected the banking and financial industry. If the global economy continues to experience uncertainty, our ability to obtain credit on favorable terms could be jeopardized. Furthermore, we rely on several large financial institutions to act as counterparties under our foreign currency forward contracts, provide credit and banking transactions and deposit services worldwide. Should any of our banking partners declare bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations, it could adversely affect our financial results and our business. We cannot predict if or when global economic confidence will be restored. Accordingly, our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty, and our stock price is at risk of volatile change. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if the semiconductor industry does not continue to grow, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. Conversely, in the event of future improvements in economic conditions for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to our business model. 10 Table of Contents The growth of our business depends on the semiconductor and electronics industries. The growth of the EDA industry as a whole, and our business in particular, is dependent on the semiconductor and electronics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of SoCs and ICs, and customers concerns about managing costs, have previously led and in the future could lead to a decrease in design starts and design activity in general, with some customers focusing more on one discrete phase of the design process. Demand for our products and services could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if the semiconductor and electronics industries do not continue to grow, or grow at a slower rate. Additionally, as the EDA industry matures, consolidation has increased competition for a greater share of our customers EDA spending. This increased competition may cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor and electronics industries have become increasingly complex ecosystems. Many of our customers outsource the manufacture of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the efficiency of their design process. We work closely with major foundries to ensure that our EDA, IP, and manufacturing solutions are compatible with their manufacturing processes. Similarly, we work closely with other major providers of semiconductor IP, particularly microprocessor IP, to optimize our EDA tools for use with their IP designs and to assure that their IP and our own IP products, which may each provide for the design of separate components on the same chip, work effectively together. If we fail to optimize our EDA and IP solutions for use with major foundries manufacturing processes or major IP providers products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP products is hampered, then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years, including the recent acquisitions of Magma Design Automation, Inc. (Magma), SpringSoft, Inc. and Emulation & Verification Engineering S.A. (EVE). We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future, but we may not find suitable acquisition targets or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions due to unfavorable credit markets or other risks, which could harm our operating results. Acquisitions are difficult, time consuming, and pose a number of risks, including: Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; Difficulties entering into new market segments in which we are not experienced; Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products; Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; Dilution of our current stockholders through the issuance of common stock, a substantial reduction of our cash resources and/or the incurrence of debt; 11 Table of Contents Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax and litigation, and the related expenses and diversion of resources; Disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of managements attention; Potential negative impact on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; and Negative impact on our earnings resulting from the application of ASC 805, Business Combinations . If we do not manage these risks, the acquisitions that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For instance, if we are unable to successfully integrate Magma products and technology, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated revenue growth from our Magma acquisition. In addition, expenses associated with supporting Magmas products could result in less expense synergies than anticipated. The integration process may involve significant management time and create uncertainty for employees and customers, and delays in the process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, if we determine we cannot use or sell the acquired products or technology, we will be required to write down the associated intangible assets, which would negatively impact our operating results. Consolidation among our customers, as well as within the industries in which we operate, may negatively impact our operating results. A number of business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships, among our customers and in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred recently, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining power, or reduced customer spending on software and services. Moreover, business combinations within the industries in which we compete may result in stronger competition from companies that are better able to compete as sole source vendors to customers. The loss of customers or reduced customer spending could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we and our competitors from time to time acquire business and technologies to complement and expand our respective product offerings. If any of our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies which we do not offer, they may be able to offer a larger technology portfolio, a larger support and service capability, or lower prices, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Changes in accounting principles or standards, or in the way they are applied, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects and unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and could adversely affect our reported operating results. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in existing principles or guidance can have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. Additionally, proposed accounting standards could have a significant impact on our operational processes, revenues and expenses, and could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to converge certain accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies that are required to follow GAAP and those that are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These efforts 12 Table of Contents may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results in areas including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, lease accounting, and financial statement presentation. The SEC may make a determination in the future regarding the incorporation of IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS or to converged accounting principles may have a material impact on our financial statements and may retroactively adversely affect previously reported transactions. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors may cause our revenue or earnings to fluctuate, including: Changes in demand for our products due to fluctuations in demand for our customers products and due to constraints in our customers budgets for research and development and EDA products and services; Product competition in the EDA industry, which can change rapidly due to industry or customer consolidation and technological innovation; Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle, which often includes a substantial customer evaluation and approval process because of the complexity of our products and services; Cancellations or changes to levels of license orders or the mix between upfront revenue and time-based license revenue; Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront revenue; Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers for a large portion of our revenue; Changes in or challenges to our revenue recognition model; Amendments or renewals of customer contracts which provide discounts or require the deferral of revenue to later periods; Expenses related to our acquisition and integration of businesses and technology; Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products; and General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries. These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our revenue or earnings and cause our stock price to decline. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our business and financial condition will be harmed. We compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more 13 Table of Contents discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as vendors of IP products and system-level solutions. Moreover, our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and the demand for our products and services is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including demand for our customers products, design starts and our customers budgetary constraints. Technology in these industries evolves rapidly and is characterized by frequent product introductions and improvements and changes in industry standards and customer requirements. Semiconductor device functionality requirements continually increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and risk of chip design and manufacturing. At the same time, our customers and potential customers continue to demand an overall lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their purchases with one vendor. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license or usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing products, and successfully develop or acquire new products; Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance; Our ability to enhance the value of our offering through more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights, price discounts and other unique rights, such as multiple tool copies, post-contract customer support, and the ability to purchase pools of technology; and Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms. If we fail to successfully manage these competitive factors, fail to successfully balance the conflicting demands for innovative technology and lower overall costs, or fail to address new competitive forces, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our efforts to protect our technology may be costly and unsuccessful. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and others and on intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, despite our measures to prevent piracy, other parties may attempt to illegally copy or use our products, which could result in lost revenue. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: Assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; Defend our products from piracy; Protect our trade secrets or know-how; or Determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. 14 Table of Contents If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain and legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. Unfavorable tax law changes, an unfavorable government review of our tax returns or changes in our geographical earnings mix or forecasts of foreign source income could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. A change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Currently, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the United States. United States income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-United States subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. A number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate tax system in the U.S. are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies but it is not possible to determine accurately the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate at this time. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we can provide no assurance that any final determination in an audit will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes as a result of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We have operations in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions with a wide range of statutory tax rates. Therefore, any changes in our geographical earnings mix in various tax jurisdictions, including those resulting from transfer pricing adjustments, could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, we maintain significant deferred tax assets related to federal research credits and foreign tax credits and certain state tax credits. Our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future taxable income, including foreign source income in the United States, as well as sufficient taxable income in certain states. Changes in our forecasts of future income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings which could materially affect our financial results. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We devote substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create significant, or even any, revenue. 15 Table of Contents The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations which may adversely affect our business. We derive more than half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the United States. In addition, we have expanded our non-U.S. operations significantly in the past several years. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple, remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the United States. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of increased risks, including: International economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business; Ineffective legal protection of intellectual property rights; Financial risks such as longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; Inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; Government trade restrictions, including tariffs or other trade barriers; Additional taxes and penalties; and Other factors beyond our control such as natural disasters, terrorism, civil unrest, war and infectious diseases. If any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly. If we violate these laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our financial statements are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies increases expenses of our foreign subsidiaries when they are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated statement of operations. Likewise, a strengthening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, especially the Japanese yen, reduces revenue of our foreign subsidiaries upon translation and consolidation. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Although we engage in foreign currency hedging activity, we may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. As of December 7, 2012, we have outstanding debt of $135.0 million under our term loan facility, primarily as a result of funding our Magma acquisition. Most of our worldwide cash, cash equivalents and short term investments balance is held in subsidiary accounts outside the United Statesapproximately 72% as of October 31, 2012. In addition, typically about half of our operating cash flow is received by our overseas subsidiaries. Should our cash spending needs in the United States rise and exceed our existing U.S. balances, available credit under our revolving credit and term loan 16 Table of Contents facilities, and future U.S. cash flows, we may be required to incur additional debt at higher than anticipated interest rates or access other funding sources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, capital structure and/or the market price of our common stock. From time to time we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third party intellectual property rights. We are from time to time subject to claims alleging our infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. For example, in December 2011, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed against us by Dynetix Design Solutions, Inc., which seeks, among other things, compensatory damages and a permanent injunction. We may also acquire companies that are party to existing infringement claims. For example, EVE, a company we acquired in October 2012, is a party to ongoing patent infringement lawsuits involving Mentor Graphics Corporation. Further information regarding the Dynetix and EVE lawsuits is contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings . In addition, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products infringe a third partys intellectual property rights. Infringement claims can result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, allegations of IC manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Further information regarding material pending lawsuits, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, is contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings . If we fail to timely recruit and retain senior management and key employees our business may be harmed. We depend in large part upon the services of key members of our senior management team to drive our future success. If we were to lose the services of any member of our senior management team, our business could be adversely affected. To be successful, we must also attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join Synopsys in connection with acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense and has increased. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. Any failure to recruit and retain key technical, sales and managerial 17 Table of Contents employees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, efforts to recruit and retain qualified employees could be costly and negatively impact our operating expenses. We issue stock options and restricted stock units and maintain employee stock purchase plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure to limit the use of such equity-based compensation due to its dilutive effect on stockholders. In addition, we are required under GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our results from operations for employee share-based equity compensation under our equity grants and our employee stock purchase plan, which has increased the pressure to limit equity-based compensation. These factors may make it more difficult for us to grant attractive equity-based packages in the future, which could adversely impact and limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, the NASDAQ Stock Market, and the FASB. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, Congress recently passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio currently consists of tax-exempt money market mutual funds, taxable money market mutual funds and bank deposits. Our investment portfolio carries both interest rate risk and credit risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a credit downgrade or a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall or a credit downgrade occurs. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, capital pressures on certain banks, especially in Europe, and the continuing low interest rate environment, some of our financial instruments may become impaired. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. In addition, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in the issuers credit quality or changes in interest rates. Security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and reputation. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and confidential employee information, in our data centers and on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to 18 Table of Contents attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. Furthermore, in the operation of our business we also use third party vendors that store certain sensitive data, including confidential information about our employees, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. Any security breach of our own or a third party vendors systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business. In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets, the recognition of revenue and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee related liabilities, including commissions and variable compensation, and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, allowances for doubtful accounts, and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Due to the global nature of our business, our operating results may be negatively impacted by catastrophic events throughout the world. We rely on a global network of infrastructure applications, enterprise applications and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cybersecurity attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers orders. Moreover, our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our principal offices are located in four adjacent buildings in Mountain View, California, which together provide approximately 400,000 square feet of available space. This space is leased through February 2015. We also lease approximately 237,000 square feet of space in three separate buildings in Sunnyvale, California, with lease expiration dates ranging from September 2019 to October 2019. We own one building in Sunnyvale, California with approximately 120,000 square feet of space. These buildings in Mountain View and Sunnyvale are used for research and development, sales and support, marketing, and administrative activities. In addition, in October 2011, we agreed to lease two office buildings to be constructed in Mountain View, California. Once construction is complete, the buildings together will provide approximately 19 Table of Contents 341,000 square feet. The lease of such premises begins upon the later of March 1, 2015 or six months after construction is substantially completed. We may terminate the lease prior to such time if certain conditions occur. We currently lease 25 other offices throughout the United States, and own 2 office buildings in Oregon, primarily for sales and support activities. International Facilities We lease additional space for sales, service and research and development activities in approximately 30 countries throughout the world, including 45,000 square feet in Dublin, Ireland for our international headquarters, as well as significant sites in Yerevan, Armenia, Bangalore, India and Shanghai, China. We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased properties, are in good condition and suitable for the current conduct of our business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to routine legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. The ultimate outcome of any litigation is uncertain and unfavorable outcomes could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on Synopsys because of the defense costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. In connection with our definitive merger agreement to acquire Magma, four putative stockholder class actions were filed against Magma, Magmas board of directors, Synopsys and the Synopsys merger subsidiary on December 5, 2011, December 9, 2011, December 13, 2011, and December 19, 2011, in state court in California and Delaware, and the cases were consolidated in California state court (collectively, the Magma Lawsuits). The Magma Lawsuits allege, among other things, that Magma and its directors breached their fiduciary duties to Magmas stockholders in negotiating and entering into the definitive merger agreement and by agreeing to sell Magma at an unfair price, and that Magma and Synopsys aided and abetted these alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. On February 10, 2012, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) in which they agreed on the terms of a proposed settlement of the lawsuits, which would include the dismissal with prejudice of all claims against all of the defendants. Pursuant to the MOU, Magma agreed to make certain additional disclosures concerning Magmas acquisition by Synopsys, which supplemented the information provided in Magmas proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 10, 2012, and to pay certain legal fees and expenses of plaintiffs counsel. As contemplated by the MOU, the parties entered into a stipulation of settlement, which is subject to customary conditions including court approval following notice to Magmas former stockholders. The court granted preliminary approval of such proposed settlement in September 2012. The court has scheduled a hearing regarding final approval of such proposed settlement for January 25, 2013. On December 5, 2011, plaintiff Dynetix Design Solutions, Inc. (Dynetix) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Synopsys in federal district court in the Northern District of California. The lawsuit alleges, among other things, that our VCS functional verification tool, and more specifically our VCS multicore technology and VCS Cloud product, infringes Dynetixs United States Patent No. 6,466,898, and that such infringement is willful. The lawsuit seeks, among other things, compensatory damages and a permanent injunction. We have asserted patent infringement counterclaims against Dynetix based on its two verification products. The court held a claims construction hearing regarding the Dynetix patent in October 2012 and accepted a majority of the constructions submitted by Synopsys. We acquired Emulation & Verification Engineering S.A. (EVE) on October 4, 2012. EVE and EVE-USA, Inc. (collectively, the EVE Parties) are currently defendants in three patent infringement 20 Table of Contents lawsuits filed by Mentor Graphics Corporation (Mentor). Mentor filed suit against the EVE Parties in federal district court in the District of Oregon on August 16, 2010 alleging that EVEs ZeBu series of products infringes Mentors United States Patent No. 6,876,962. Mentor filed an additional suit in federal district court in the District of Oregon on August 17, 2012 alleging that EVEs ZeBu series of products infringes Mentors United States Patent No. 6,947,882. Both cases have been consolidated in federal district court in the District of Oregon and seek compensatory damages and a permanent injunction. Mentor also filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Nihon EVE K.K. in Tokyo District Court in 2010 alleging that EVEs ZeBu series of products infringes Mentors Japanese Patent No. P3,588,324. This case seeks compensatory damages, a permanent injunction and destruction of inventory. On September 27, 2012, Synopsys, EVE and EVE-USA, Inc. filed an action for declaratory relief against Mentor in federal district court in the Northern District of California, seeking a determination that Mentors United States Patents Nos. 6,009,531, 5,649,176 and 6,240,376, which were the subject of a patent infringement lawsuit filed by Mentor against EVE in 2006 and settled in the same year, are invalid and not infringed by EVEs products, and that Mentor is without right or authority to threaten or maintain suit against the plaintiffs on such patents. In addition, on September 26, 2012, we filed two inter partes review requests with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office challenging the validity of Mentors 376 and 882 patents. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Market Price Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SNPS. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sale prices of our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Quarter Ended January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, 2012: High $ 29.63 $ 31.04 $ 31.07 $ 34.10 Low $ 26.10 $ 29.06 $ 27.49 $ 30.29 2011: High $ 27.60 $ 29.35 $ 27.90 $ 27.49 Low $ 24.46 $ 25.85 $ 23.51 $ 21.37 As of October 31, 2012, we had 384 stockholders of record. To date, we have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock and have no current intention to do so. Our credit facility contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain certain specified levels of cash and cash equivalents. Such provisions could have the effect of preventing us from paying dividends in the future. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our credit facility. 22 Table of Contents Performance graph The following graph compares the 5-year total return to stockholders of our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Synopsys common stock on November 2, 2007 (the last trading day before the beginning of our fifth preceding fiscal year) and in each of the indexes on October 31, 2007 (the closest month end) and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends were declared on our common stock during such time. The comparisons in the table are required by the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. The information presented above in the stock performance graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, except to the extent that we subsequently specifically request that such information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or Exchange Act. 23 Table of Contents Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors (Board) previously approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we were authorized to purchase up to $500.0 million of our common stock, and has periodically replenished the stock repurchase program to such amount. Our Board replenished the stock repurchase program up to $500.0 million on May 25, 2011. We repurchase shares to offset dilution caused by ongoing stock issuances from existing equity plans for equity compensation awards, acquisitions, and when management believes it is a good use of cash. Repurchases are transacted in accordance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and may be made through any means including, but not limited to, open market purchases, plans executed under Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and structured transactions. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the three months ended October 31, 2012 and, as of such date, $272.4 million remained available for further repurchases under the program. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our stock repurchase program. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Fiscal Year Ended October 31,(1)(2) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenue $ 1,756,017 $ 1,535,643 $ 1,380,661 $ 1,360,045 $ 1,336,951 Income before provisions for income taxes 201,135 219,113 198,658 233,070 218,956 (Benefit) provision for income taxes(3) 18,733 (2,251 ) (38,405 ) 65,389 28,978 Net income 182,402 221,364 237,063 167,681 189,978 Net income per share: Basic 1.24 1.51 1.60 1.17 1.33 Diluted 1.21 1.47 1.56 1.15 1.29 Working capital (111,983 ) 327,735 325,987 649,207 413,307 Total assets 4,147,656 3,368,844 3,286,541 2,938,854 2,742,478 Stockholders equity(4) 2,543,971 2,101,300 2,100,182 1,844,166 1,528,371 (1) Our fiscal year generally ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. Fiscal 2012 was a 53-week year and ended on November 3, 2012. Fiscal 2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008 were 52-week years. Fiscal 2013 will be a 52-week year. (2) Includes results of operations from business combinations from the date of acquisition. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (3) Includes $36.9 million, $32.8 million, $94.3 million and $17.3 million tax benefit from tax settlements received in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2008, respectively. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (4) Fiscal 2008 included an adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings as a result of the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations is qualified in its entirety by the more complete discussion contained in this Item 7 and by the risk factors set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Please also see the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report regarding forward-looking statements. Business Summary Synopsys is a global leader in providing software, intellectual property and services used to accelerate innovation in integrated circuits and electronic systems. We supply the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design, create prototypes for and test integrated circuits, also known as chips. We also supply software and hardware used to develop the systems that incorporate integrated circuits and the software that runs on those integrated circuits. Our intellectual property (IP) products are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than redesigning those circuits themselves. To complement these product offerings, we provide technical services to support our solutions and we help our customers develop chips and electronic systems. Our customers are generally large semiconductor and electronics manufacturers. Our solutions help them overcome the challenge of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while reducing their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, our customers research and development budget and spending decisions may be impacted by their business outlook and their willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. Despite global economic uncertainty, we have maintained profitability and positive cash flow on an annual basis in recent years. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technology and strong customer relationships, but also because of our recurring revenue business model. Under this model, a substantial majority of our customers pay for their licenses over time and we typically recognize this recurring revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Recurring revenue generally represents more than 90% of our total revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. We typically enter each quarter with greater than 90% of our revenue for that particular quarter already committed from our customers, providing for stability and predictability of results. Due to our business model, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Even with the continued instability of the global markets, our business outlook remains strong based on our business model, strong financials, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy. In addition, consumer demand for electronics has been solid, particularly the demand for mobile devices. Through our recent acquisitions, we have enhanced our technology and expanded our product portfolio and our total addressable market, especially in IP and system-level solutions, which we believe will help drive revenue growth. We believe that the combination of our solid financials, leading technology and strong customer relationships will help us to continue to successfully execute our strategies. Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we completed our acquisition of Magma Design Automation, Inc. (Magma), and during the fourth quarter, we completed our acquisition of Emulation & 25 Table of Contents Verification Engineering S.A. (EVE) and acquired a controlling interest in SpringSoft, Inc. (SpringSoft). As further described below, these acquisitions, combined with other acquisitions in fiscal 2012, were the primary drivers for increases in revenues and expenses compared to fiscal 2011. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year generally ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2012 was a 53-week year and ended on November 3, 2012. Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 were 52-week years, ending on October 29, 2011 and October 30, 2010, respectively. The extra week in fiscal 2012 resulted in approximately $26 million of additional revenue, related primarily to time-based licenses, and approximately $16 million of additional expenses. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-K refers to October 31 as the end of our fiscal year. Fiscal 2012 Financial Performance Summary Increases in our revenue and expenses were driven by the overall growth of our business, including from our acquisitions in fiscal 2012. In addition, the extra week in fiscal 2012 contributed to increases in our revenue and expenses. We continued to derive more than 90% of our revenue from time-based licenses, maintenance and services. Our total revenue, excluding the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2012 that added $26 million, increased by $194.4 million primarily due to our general growth and acquisitions during fiscal 2012. Total operating expense and cost of revenues, excluding the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2012 that resulted in $16 million in expenses, increased by $227.2 million primarily due to employee-related costs as a result of an almost 20% higher headcount principally from acquisitions; higher amortization and depreciation expenses; and other expenses that are related solely to acquisitions and do not regularly reoccur in the operation of our business. Income tax provisions for fiscal 2012 increased by $21.0 million. The increase was primarily due to the expiration of the federal R&D tax credit after December 31, 2011 and a shift in the geographical mix of our earnings that resulted in a lower tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed below the U.S. statutory rate in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. As a result of the increase in expenses due to our fiscal 2012 acquisitions, and increased taxes, our net income was lower by $39.0 million in fiscal 2012 compared to 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under the heading Results of Operations below are based on our audited results of operations, which we have prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and net income. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. For further information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; 26 Table of Contents Valuation of stock compensation; Valuation of intangible assets; and Income taxes. Revenue Recognition Software license revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual and term licenses and professional services fees. Hardware revenue consists of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) board-based products. With respect to software licenses, we utilize three license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs). TSLs are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We bundle and do not charge separately for post-contract customer support (maintenance) for the term of the license. Term licenses. Term licenses are also for a finite term, but do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually for the balance of the term. The annual maintenance fee is typically calculated as a percentage of the net license fee. Perpetual licenses. Perpetual licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the three software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees (which include bundled maintenance) ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based license revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Term licenses. We recognize revenue from term licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these term licenses is reported as upfront revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. For term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer payments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. We also enter into arrangements in which portions of revenue are contingent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, for example, royalty arrangements. We refer to this revenue as contingent 27 Table of Contents revenue. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the applicable event occurs. Such revenue is reported as time-based revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Historically, these arrangements have not been material to our total revenue. We recognize revenue from hardware sales in full upon shipment if all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these hardware sales is reported as upfront revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Hardware sales have not been material to our total revenue. We infrequently enter into multiple-element arrangements that contain both software and non-software deliverables such as hardware. On a prospective basis beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we applied accounting guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables to these contracts. Such arrangements have not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements and are not expected to have a material effect on subsequent periods. We have determined that the software and non-software deliverables in our contracts are separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we allocate the arrangement consideration to separate units of accounting based on estimated standalone selling prices (ESP) because we do not have objective evidence of standalone selling prices. We estimate the standalone selling prices of our separate units of accounting considering both market conditions and our own specific conditions. For hardware deliverables, we determine ESP using gross margin because we have consistent pricing practices and gross margins for these products. Determining the ESP for software deliverables requires significant judgment. We determine ESP for software deliverables after considering customer geographies, market demand and competition at the time of contract negotiation, gross margin objectives, existing portfolio pricing practices, contractually stated prices and prices for similar historical transactions. We recognize revenue for the separate units of accounting when all revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue allocated to hardware units of accounting is recognized upon shipment when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue allocated to software units of accounting is recognized according to the methods described above depending on the software license type (TSL, term license or perpetual license). We recognize revenue from maintenance fees ratably over the maintenance period to the extent cash has been received or fees become due and payable, and recognize revenue from professional services and training fees as such services are performed and accepted by the customer. Revenue attributable to maintenance, professional services and training is reported as maintenance and service revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. We also enter into arrangements to deliver software products, either alone or together with other products or services that require significant modification, or customization of the software. We account for such arrangements using the percentage of completion method as we have the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates that relate to the extent of progress toward completion, contract revenues and costs. We measure the progress towards completion using the labor hours incurred to complete the project. Revenue attributable to these arrangements is reported as maintenance and service revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. We determine the fair value of each element in multiple element software arrangements that contain only software and software related deliverables based on vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). We limit our assessment of VSOE of fair value for each element to the price charged when such element is sold separately. We have analyzed all of the elements included in our multiple-element software arrangements and have determined that we have sufficient VSOE to allocate revenue to the maintenance components of our perpetual and term license products and to professional services. Accordingly, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, we recognize license revenue from perpetual and term licenses upon delivery using the residual method, recognize revenue from maintenance ratably over the maintenance term, and recognize revenue from professional services as 28 Table of Contents services are performed and accepted by the customer. We recognize revenue from TSLs ratably over the term of the license, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, since there is not sufficient VSOE to allocate the TSL fee between license and maintenance services. We make significant judgments related to revenue recognition. Specifically, in connection with each transaction involving our products, we must evaluate whether: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery of software or services has occurred, (3) the fee for such software or services is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability of the full license or service fee is probable. All four of these criteria must be met in order for us to recognize revenue with respect to a particular arrangement. We apply these revenue recognition criteria as follows: Persuasive Evidence of an Arrangement Exists. Prior to recognizing revenue on an arrangement, our customary policy is to have a written contract, signed by both the customer and by us or a purchase order from those customers that have previously negotiated a standard end-user license arrangement or purchase agreement. Delivery Has Occurred. We deliver our products to our customers electronically or physically. For electronic deliveries, delivery occurs when we provide access to our customers to take immediate possession of the software through downloading it to the customers hardware. For physical deliveries, the standard transfer terms are typically Freight on Board (FOB) shipping point. We generally ship our products or license keys promptly after acceptance of customer orders. However, a number of factors can affect the timing of product shipments and, as a result, timing of revenue recognition, including the delivery dates requested by customers and our operational capacity to fulfill product orders at the end of a fiscal quarter. The Fee is Fixed or Determinable. Our determination that an arrangement fee is fixed or determinable depends principally on the arrangements payment terms. Our standard payment terms for perpetual and term licenses require 75% or more of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee to be paid within one year. If the arrangement includes these terms, we regard the fee as fixed or determinable, and recognize all license revenue under the arrangement in full upon delivery (assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met). If the arrangement does not include these terms, we do not consider the fee to be fixed or determinable and generally recognize revenue when customer installments are due and payable. In the case of a TSL, because of the right to exchange products or receive unspecified future technology and because VSOE for maintenance services does not exist for a TSL, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license, but not in advance of when customers installments become due and payable. Collectability is Probable. We judge collectability of the arrangement fees on a customer-by-customer basis pursuant to our credit review policy. We typically sell to customers with whom we have a history of successful collection. For a new customer, or when an existing customer substantially expands its commitments, we evaluate the customers financial position and ability to pay and typically assign a credit limit based on that review. We increase the credit limit only after we have established a successful collection history with the customer. If we determine at any time that collectability is not probable under a particular arrangement based upon our credit review process or the customers payment history, we recognize revenue under that arrangement as customer payments are actually received. Valuation of Stock Compensation Stock compensation expense is measured on the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period in accordance with ASC 718, Stock Compensation . We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan awards. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model incorporates various subjective assumptions including expected volatility, expected term and risk-free 29 Table of Contents interest rates. We estimate the expected volatility by a combination of implied volatility for publicly traded options of our stock with a term of six months or longer and the historical stock price volatility over the estimated expected term of our stock awards. We determine the expected term of our stock awards based on historical experience. In addition, judgment is required in estimating the forfeiture rate on stock awards. We calculate the expected forfeiture rate based on average historical trends. These input factors are subjective and are determined using managements judgment. If a difference arises between the assumptions used in determining stock compensation cost and the actual factors which become known over time, we may change the input factors used in determining future stock compensation costs. Any such changes could materially impact our results of operations in the period in which the changes are made and in periods thereafter. Valuation of Intangible Assets We evaluate our intangible assets for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Intangible assets consist of purchased technology, contract rights intangibles, customer-relationships, trademarks and trade names, covenants not to compete, capitalized software development and other intangibles. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business or significant negative industry or economic trends. If this evaluation indicates that the value of the intangible asset may be impaired, we make an assessment of the recoverability of the net carrying value of the asset over its remaining useful life. If this assessment indicates that the intangible asset is not recoverable, based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the technology over the remaining useful life, we reduce the net carrying value of the related intangible asset to fair value. Any such impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. We did not record any impairment charges on our intangible assets during fiscal 2012, 2011 or 2010. Income Taxes Our tax provisions are calculated using estimates in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes . Our estimates and assumptions may differ from the actual results as reflected in our income tax returns and we record the required adjustments when they are identified or resolved. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse, and for tax loss and credit carryovers. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In evaluating our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, our forecast of future taxable income on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, as well as feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. We believe that the net deferred tax assets of approximately $311.0 million that are recorded on our balance sheet as of October 31, 2012 will ultimately be realized. However, if we determine in the future that it is more likely than not we will not be able to realize a portion or the full amount of deferred tax assets, we would record an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance as a charge to income tax expense in the period such determination is made. We apply a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. 30 Table of Contents The calculation of tax liabilities involves the inherent uncertainty associated with the application of complex tax laws. We are also subject to examination by various taxing authorities. We believe we have adequately provided in our financial statements for potential additional taxes. If we ultimately determine that these amounts are not owed, we would reverse the liability and recognize the tax benefit in the period in which we determine that the liability is no longer necessary. If an ultimate tax assessment exceeds our estimate of tax liabilities, we would record an additional charge to earnings. Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of software licenses, maintenance and professional services and to a small extent, hardware products. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a term or perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is delivered. The average license term of the TSLs and term licenses we entered into in fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010 was 2.7 years, 2.8 years and 2.9 years, respectively. Revenue on contracts requiring significant modification or development is accounted for using the percentage of completion method over the period of the development. Revenue on hardware product orders are generally recognized in full at the time the product is shipped. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the applicable event occurs. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). Revenue on professional services orders is generally recognized after services are performed and accepted by the customer. Our revenue in any fiscal quarter is equal to the sum of our time-based license, upfront, maintenance and professional services and hardware revenue for the period. We derive time-based license revenue in any quarter largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent due to contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and from contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront revenue directly from term and perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the quarter. We derive maintenance revenue in any quarter largely from maintenance orders received in prior quarters since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional services revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services as those services are delivered and accepted or on percentage of completion for arrangements requiring significant modification of our software, and not when they are booked. Our license revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual or term licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL delivered on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the twelve succeeding quarters. Conversely, a $120,000 order for perpetual and term licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is delivered, but no future revenue. Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual and term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees and 100% of the maintenance fees are payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on 31 Table of Contents all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) $1,756.0 $ 1,535.6 $ 1,380.7 $ 220.4 14 % $ 154.9 11 % Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements, including payment terms and the timing and value of contract renewals. The sequential increase in total revenue from fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012 was due to overall growth of our business including contributions of revenue from acquired companies. The increases were primarily in the time-based license revenue. Fiscal 2012 had approximately $26 million of additional revenue due to the additional week in the fiscal year. Time-Based License Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) $ 1,449.3 $ 1,260.3 $ 1,158.4 $ 189.0 15 % $ 101.9 9 % Percentage of total revenue 83 % 82 % 84 % The increase in time-based license revenue for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily attributable to increases in TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods and from the contracts acquired through fiscal 2012 acquisitions and, to a lesser extent, due to higher contingent revenue, product sales, the impact of the additional week in fiscal 2012 and other time-based arrangements. The increase in time-based license revenue for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to increases in TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods, higher contingent revenue from royalties and product sales from prior-year acquisitions. Upfront Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) $ 105.1 $ 90.5 $ 68.6 $ 14.6 16 % $ 21.9 32 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 6 % 5 % Changes in upfront revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The sequential increase in upfront revenue from fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012 was primarily attributable to the increase in sales of our hardware products and perpetual licenses. 32 Table of Contents Maintenance and Service Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) Maintenance revenue $ 74.6 $ 77.6 $ 78.1 $ (3.0 ) (4 )% $ (0.5 ) (1 )% Professional service and other revenue 127.0 107.2 75.5 19.8 18 % 31.7 42 % Total $ 201.6 $ 184.8 $ 153.6 $ 16.8 9 % $ 31.2 20 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 12 % 11 % Changes in maintenance revenue are generally attributable to the timing of renewals and the type of contracts renewed on maintenance contracts. Maintenance revenue was relatively flat during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Professional services and other revenue increased in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, primarily due to a higher level of consulting services. Professional services and other revenue increased substantially in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010, primarily due to professional services contracts assumed from prior acquisitions. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) Cost of revenue $ 392.7 $ 340.5 $ 281.1 $ 52.2 15 % $ 59.4 21 % Operating expenses 1,173.3 982.4 915.5 190.9 19 % 66.9 7 % Total $ 1,566.0 $ 1,322.9 $ 1,196.6 $ 243.1 18 % $ 126.3 11 % Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue 89 % 86 % 87 % Our expenses are generally impacted by changes in personnel-related costs including salaries, benefits, stock compensation and variable compensation, changes in amortization and changes in selling and marketing expenses. The increase in our expenses compared to prior fiscal years was primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs driven by increased headcount from our acquisitions and related fixed charges including facilities, amortization of intangible assets, and depreciation as well as due to an additional week during the fiscal year. We allocate certain human resource programs, information technology and facility expenses among our functional income statement categories based on headcount within each functional area. Annually, or upon a significant change in headcount (such as a workforce reduction, realignment or acquisition) or other factors, management reviews the allocation methodology and expenses included in the allocation pool. Consequently, fluctuations in these drivers impact the amounts allocated to each functional area. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, did not have a significant impact on expenses during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, or fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our foreign exchange hedging programs. 33 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) Cost of license revenue $ 232.8 $ 205.5 $ 180.2 $ 27.3 13 % $ 25.3 14 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 78.6 80.2 64.8 (1.6 ) (2 )% 15.4 24 % Amortization of intangible assets 81.3 54.8 36.1 26.5 48 % 18.7 52 % Total $ 392.7 $ 340.5 $ 281.1 $ 52.2 15 % $ 59.4 21 % Percentage of total revenue 22 % 22 % 20 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of license revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of license revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of license revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on license and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of license revenue. Cost of license revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products which have reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and training organization, and costs associated with the delivery of our consulting services, such as, hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of certain contract rights and the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete and other intangibles related to acquisitions. Cost of revenue increased by $52.2 million or 15% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The increase was primarily due to increases of $26.5 million in amortization of intangible assets, $19.0 million in personnel-related costs as a result of fiscal 2012 acquisitions and the impact of one extra week of costs of approximately $2.2 million in fiscal 2012. Cost of revenue as a percentage of total revenue increased in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the increase in professional service revenue. The increase in cost of revenue in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase in $16.9 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases from our prior-year acquisitions, an increase of $18.9 million in costs to provide maintenance and professional services, an increase of $2.3 million in hardware and license costs, and an increase of $18.7 million for amortization of intangible assets due to our prior-year acquisitions. 34 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) $ 581.6 $ 491.9 $ 449.2 $ 89.7 18 % $ 42.7 10 % Percentage of total revenue 33 % 32 % 33 % The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases of $61.0 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases primarily from our acquisitions, $11.1 million in functionally allocated expenses as a result of headcount increases from our current year acquisitions, $7.9 million in costs related to acquisitions, and one extra week of costs of approximately $7.5 million in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase of $31.8 million in personnel-related costs and an increase of $11.9 million in functionally allocated expenses as a result of headcount increases from our prior-year acquisitions. Sales and Marketing Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) $ 415.6 $ 363.1 $ 339.8 $ 52.5 14 % $ 23.3 7 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 24 % 25 % Changes in commissions and other variable compensation are generally attributable to the volume of contracts and timing of shipments based on contract requirements. The increase in sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 was due to increases in personnel-related costs of $25.6 million primarily driven by headcount increases from our acquisitions, $11.2 million in variable compensation due to higher shipments, $8.9 million in costs related to acquisitions, and one extra week of costs of approximately $4.9 million in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. The increase in sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to an increase of $10.6 million in commissions and other variable compensation, an increase of $9.6 million in other personnel-related costs due to an increase in headcount from prior-year acquisitions, and an increase of $2.7 million in travel-related costs. General and Administrative Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) $ 157.5 $ 112.8 $ 114.9 $ 44.7 40 % $ (2.1 ) (2 )% Percentage of total revenue 9 % 7 % 8 % The increase in general and administrative expense for fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases of $15.9 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases primarily from our acquisitions, $24.5 million in costs related to acquisitions, $6.8 million in facility expenses, $5.8 million in depreciation and maintenance expenses and one extra week of costs of approximately $1.6 million in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. The increases were partially offset by a higher allocation of $18.0 million in expenses to other functions in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, as a result of increased expenses in the allocation pool. 35 Table of Contents The decrease in general and administrative expense for fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 was primarily due to a decrease of $13.8 million resulting from higher allocation of expenses to other functional areas because of increased headcount. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $3.3 million in personnel-related costs, $6.1 million in facility expenses and $2.9 million in other general and administrative expenses primarily as a result of our prior-year acquisitions. Change in Fair Value of Deferred Compensation The income or loss arising from the change in fair value of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan obligation is recorded in cost of sales and each functional operating expense, with the offsetting change in the fair value of the related assets recorded in other income (expense), net. These assets are classified as trading securities. There is no overall impact to our net income from the income or loss of our deferred compensation plan obligation and asset. Acquired In-Process Research and Development In-process research and development (IPR&D) costs relate to in-process technologies acquired in acquisitions. The value assigned to IPR&D is determined by considering the importance of each project to our overall development plan, estimating costs to develop the IPR&D into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such projects when completed and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value. The utilized discount rate is our weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the inherent uncertainties in future revenue estimates and the profitability of such technology, the successful development of the IPR&D, its useful life and the uncertainty of technological advances, all of which are unknown at the time of determination. Upon completion of development, the underlying intangible asset is amortized over its estimated useful life and recorded in cost of revenue. IPR&D projects acquired are anticipated to be completed over a period of one to three years from the date of the acquisition. IPR&D projects of $3.3 million were completed during fiscal 2012. See Note 3 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization of contract rights and the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete, and other intangibles related to acquisitions completed in current and prior years. Amortization expense is included in the consolidated statements of operations as follows: Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) Included in cost of revenue $ 81.3 $ 54.8 $ 36.1 $ 26.5 48 % $ 18.7 52 % Included in operating expenses 18.6 14.6 11.6 4.0 27 % 3.0 26 % Total $ 99.9 $ 69.4 $ 47.7 $ 30.5 44 % $ 21.7 45 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 5 % 3 % Amortization of capitalized software development costs is not presented in the above table and is included in cost of license revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. The increases in amortization of intangible assets from fiscal 2010 through 2012 was primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions offset by certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts, which is incorporated by reference here. Impairment of Intangible Assets. We did not record any impairment charges to our intangible assets during fiscal 2012, 2011, or 2010. 36 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) Interest income $ 1.6 $ 2.1 $ 5.4 $ (0.5 ) (24 )% $ (3.3 ) (61 )% Interest expense $ (2.0 ) $ (0.1 ) $ (0.3 ) $ (1.9 ) 1,900 % $ 0.2 (67 )% Gain (loss) on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan 7.5 2.4 8.8 5.1 213 % (6.4 ) (73 )% Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 1.7 1.7 (1.5 ) 0.0 0 % 3.2 (213 )% Other, net 2.3 0.2 2.1 2.1 1,050 % (1.9 ) (90 )% Total $ 11.1 $ 6.3 $ 14.5 $ 4.8 76 % $ (8.2 ) (57 )% The net increase in other income (expense) in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increase in gain on assets related to our deferred compensation plan, and an increase in premiums on hedge contracts included in other income (expense), net, partially offset by higher interest expense due to a term loan that we entered into in 2012. The net decrease in other income (expense), net in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in gain on assets related to our deferred compensation plan, a decrease in gains on sale of investments included other income (expense), net and lower interest rates. This decrease was partially offset by foreign exchange fluctuations. Income Taxes Our effective tax rates for fiscal 2012 and 2011 include tax benefits of settlements with the IRS of $15.9 million (for fiscal years 2010 through 2011), with Taiwan of $14.7M (net tax benefit resulting from the 2008 settlement being applied to other open fiscal years), with Hungary of $6.3 million (for fiscal years 2006 through 2010) in fiscal year 2012 and a settlement with the IRS of $32.8 million (for fiscal years 2006 through 2009) in fiscal 2011. Without the impact of the settlements, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 and 2011 would have been 27.7% and 13.9%, respectively. For further discussion of the provision for income taxes and settlements, see Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our credit facility. As of October 31, 2012, we held an aggregate of $198.0 million in cash and cash equivalents in the United States and an aggregate of $502.4 million in our foreign subsidiaries. Funds held in our foreign subsidiaries are generated from revenue outside North America. At present, such foreign funds are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign countries to the extent of indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings. During the current year we primarily used our cash in foreign subsidiaries to fund our overseas acquisitions of SpringSoft and EVE. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed to fund cash needs in the United States and if U.S. taxes have not already been previously accrued, we would be required to accrue and pay additional U.S. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. The following sections discuss changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and other commitments on our liquidity and capital resources during fiscal 2012. 37 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change 2012 2011 (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 700.4 $ 855.1 $ (154.7 ) (18 )% Short-term investments 149.0 (149.0 ) (100 )% Total $ 700.4 $ 1,004.1 $ (303.7 ) (30 )% Our cash generated from operating activities was $486.1 million in fiscal 2012. During fiscal 2012, we liquidated our short-term investments primarily to fund our acquisitions. Other cash activities were (1) payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $970.1 million, (2) net proceeds from sales and purchases of short-term investments of $148.0 million (3) proceeds from a credit facility and term loan of $250.0 million and subsequent repayment of $115.0 million of those loans (4) share repurchases of $40.0 million offset by proceeds from employee stock plans of $175.9 million, and (5) purchases of property and equipment of $54.2 million. Cash flows Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2012 2011 2010 2011 to 2012 2010 to 2011 (dollars in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 486.1 $ 440.3 $ 341.0 $ 45.8 10 % $ 99.3 29 % Cash (used in) investing activities (879.1 ) (88.8 ) (238.7 ) (790.3 ) 890 % 149.9 (63 )% Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 243.5 (277.6 ) (43.1 ) 521.1 (188 )% (234.5 ) 544 % Cash provided by operating activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront revenue much sooner than from time-based license revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. Fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012. Cash provided by operating activities increased slightly due to an increase in collections from customers, offset partly by higher disbursements to vendors. Fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011. Cash provided by operating activities increased due to fluctuations in operating assets and liabilities primarily resulting from increased accounts receivable collections due to timing of billings, offset partly by higher payments due to disbursements to vendors, higher variable compensation costs and higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, as well as increased tax payments . Cash used in investing activities Fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to cash used for acquisitions in fiscal 2012, partly offset by net proceeds from the purchase and sale of investments. 38 Table of Contents Fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011. The decrease in cash used in financing activities primarily relates to lower cash payments for acquisitions in 2011 offset by lower net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments and higher property and equipment purchases. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities Fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012. The increase in cash provided by financing activities primarily relates to net proceeds from credit facilities obtained primarily to finance our acquisitions and less common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program. Fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011. The increase in cash used relates to common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and accelerated stock repurchase (ASR) program, including cash paid for an equity forward contract as part of the ASR program, partially offset by higher proceeds from issuances of common stock. Accounts Receivable, net Year Ended October 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) $292.7 $203.1 $89.6 44% Our accounts receivable and days sales outstanding (DSO) are primarily driven by our billing and collections activities. Our DSO was 59 days at October 31, 2012 and 47 days at October 31, 2011. The increase in DSO is attributable to the receivables acquired through our acquisitions and the timing of billings at the end of fiscal 2012. Working Capital. Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our consolidated balance sheets: Year Ended October 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 1,140.7 $ 1,338.1 $ (197.4 ) (15 )% Current liabilities 1,252.6 1,010.3 242.3 24 % Working capital $ (111.9 ) $ 327.8 $ (439.7 ) (134 )% Changes in our working capital were primarily due to (1) a $303.7 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments used to fund our fiscal 2012 acquisitions, (2) an $89.5 million increase in accounts receivable, (3) a $131.3 million increase in deferred revenue due to timing of our billings, (4) an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $80.9 million, (5) an increase of $30.0 million in short-term debt obligations from our new term loan, and (6) a net $16.7 million increase due to movements in other current assets, and tax-related assets. Other As of October 31, 2012, our cash equivalents consisted of cash deposits, tax-exempt money market mutual funds and taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. We proactively manage our cash and cash equivalents and investments balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding 39 Table of Contents AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 5 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Other Commitments On February 17, 2012, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with several lenders (the Credit Agreement) providing for (i) a $350.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) and (ii) a $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the Term Loan). The Credit Agreement amended and restated our previous credit agreement dated October 14, 2011 in order to add a new term loan facility, primarily to finance a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Magma on February 22, 2012. Subject to obtaining additional commitments from lenders, the principal amount of the loans provided under the Credit Agreement may be increased by us by up to an additional $150.0 million through October 13, 2015. The Credit Agreement terminates on October 14, 2016. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to operate within a maximum leverage ratio and maintain specified levels of cash, as well as other non-financial covenants. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. At October 31, 2012, borrowings under the Revolver bore interest at LIBOR + 0.975% and borrowings under the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR + 1.125%. In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.150% and 0.300% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. During fiscal 2012, we borrowed $250.0 million under the Credit Agreement. As of October 31, 2012, we had no outstanding balance under the Revolver and a $135.0 million outstanding balance under the Term Loan, and are in compliance with all covenants. $105.0 million of the borrowings under the Term Loan are classified as long term. Principal payments on a portion of the Term Loan are due in equal quarterly installments of $7.5 million beginning in the third quarter of our fiscal 2012, with the remainder due in October 2016. We can elect to make prepayments on the Term Loan, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. During fiscal 2012, we made principal payments of $100.0 million and $15.0 million under the Revolver and Term Loan, respectively. We had no outstanding debt balances as of October 31, 2011. We expect the borrowings under the Revolver will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 31, 2012. Total Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014/ Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016/ Fiscal 2017 Thereafter Other (in thousands) Lease Obligations: Capital Lease $ 6,332 $ 4,180 $ 2,152 $ $ $ Operating Leases Minimum lease payments, net(1) 435,060 43,686 75,406 61,714 254,254 Other 101,371 10,956 15,292 14,618 60,505 Purchase Obligations(2) 101,741 86,428 15,119 192 2 Term Loan(3) 135,000 30,000 60,000 45,000 Other Long-Term Obligations(4) 4,366 1,272 2,543 551 Long term accrued income taxes(5) 52,645 $ 52,645 Total $ 836,515 $ 176,522 $ 170,512 $ 122,075 $ 314,761 $ 52,645 (1) See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (2) Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business for which we have not received the goods or services as of October 31, 2012. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and 40 Table of Contents legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. (3) This commitment relates to the principal on the Term Loan as discussed in Other Commitments above. (4) These other obligations include the Term Loan fees, a credit facility assumed through an acquisition and performance-based contingent consideration obligations. (5) Long-term accrued income taxes represent uncertain tax benefits as of October 31, 2012. Currently, a reasonably reliable estimate of timing of payments in individual years beyond fiscal 2012 cannot be made due to uncertainties in timing of the commencement and settlement of potential tax audits. The expected timing of payments of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payment and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Amounts disclosed as contingent or milestone based obligations depend on the achievement of the milestones or the occurrence of the contingent events and can vary significantly. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2012, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements For a description of the effect of new accounting pronouncements on Synopsys, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which information is included herein.