Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report. We typically license Synopsys IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for a specific number of designs. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. See Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies and Bases of Presentation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further information. 9 Table of Contents Our hardware products, which principally consist of our emulation and prototyping systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Risks related to disruptions in our supply chain affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project. Competition Within our Design Automation segment, we compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal design capabilities. The EDA industry is highly competitive. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Siemens EDA. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers internally developed design tools and capabilities. Within our Design IP segment, Synopsys competes against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, features, availability of titles for new manufacturing processes, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. Likewise, no single factor drives an IP customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Risks related to competitive factors affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Proprietary Rights We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,400 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2044 and generally have a term of 20 years from filing. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we operate. While protecting our proprietary technology is important, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Environmental, Social and Governance Matters At Synopsys, we recognize that as we drive innovation and business success in the era of pervasive intelligence, we are simultaneously responsible for the sustainability of our operations, products, and ecosystem, which may impact our long-term value as a company. Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy provides a focus and structure for how we manage our own operational impact and help others in our ecosystem to do the same. For example, Synopsys is driving energy savings in the semiconductor ecosystem through solutions that optimize energy efficiency in the design and use of chips and systems, along with solutions that reduce energy use, water use, and waste in semiconductor manufacturing. 10 Table of Contents We maintain a robust governance structure for our ESG efforts, gauging and acting on our highest priority ESG impacts, business risks, and opportunities, as we believe this creates positive impact for our stockholders as well as our customers, employees, partners, and local communities. Human Capital Resources Synopsys mission is to empower technology innovators everywhere, and we believe our people are the key to our success. Our People and Places Team, led by our Chief People Officer, focuses on building a workplace where our talent around the globe can enthusiastically be their authentic selves and bring their best to the workplace. This includes open communication, sparking creative ideas, listening, collaborating, working on new challenges, and developing solutions that drive innovation for our customers. Through our ecosystem of learning and growth opportunities, collaboration and innovation tools, creative work environments, and robust total rewards, we help our employees thrive and do great work. We believe this creates value for us, our stockholders and our customers. As of our fiscal 2024 year-end, Synopsys had approximately 20,000 employees. Approximately 20% of these employees are in the United States and 80% are in other locations around the world. Approximately 87% of our employees are engineers, and over half of those employees hold Masters or PhD degrees. We focus on several human capital measures and objectives, including recruitment and retention; inclusion and belonging; total rewards; employee health, safety, and wellbeing; employee engagement; and talent development and succession planning. Risks related to our human capital are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Recruitment and Retention In fiscal 2024, despite hiring new employees, our total employee headcount decreased by approximately 1% due to the divestiture of our Software Integrity business. As of our fiscal 2024 year-end, our voluntary turnover rate was 6.4%. We attribute the strong retention of our talented workforce to several factors, including exciting and challenging assignments; growth opportunities; strong leadership and management; a culture of integrity and caring; our commitment to inclusion; competitive and equitable compensation and benefits; our leading products and technology; and the strength of our customer relationships. Inclusion and Belonging At Synopsys, we believe that our success depends, in part, on having inclusive teams of extraordinary professionals around the world who are empowered to innovate and create an inclusive culture where all employees feel seen and respected. Our work creating an inclusive Synopsys spans across every part of the employee experience, even before a new hire arrives. Because our leaders and managers play a key part in creating this experience, we want them to have the mindset and skills to lead inclusively. We are committed to upholding this important part of our culture. Consistent with our pledge of removing barriers to success and ensuring fairness for all, we regularly review and seek to improve talent management processes that impact the employee experience at Synopsys. These include hiring, compensation, talent development, and promotions. Creating an inclusive culture requires actively listening to our employees and demonstrating real interest, curiosity, and inclusiveness. With the goal of elevating each persons individual worth to benefit the workforce as a whole, we offer programs and events globally designed to help our employees learn about each other, foster connections, and demonstrate inclusivity every day. Our Employee Resource Groups (ERG) are an example. They create space for our employees to brainstorm, share experiences and ideas, and build welcoming communities that positively impact our business, culture, and the world beyond our walls. In fiscal 2024, two new Employee Resource Groups were created: Caregivers and Parents ERG (CAPE) and the Synopsys Neurodiversity Group (SYNG), bringing our total number of ERGs to seven. Total Rewards Our Total Rewards program offers meaningful global benefits and compensation for the time, energy, commitment, skills, and expertise employees bring to the company every day. Our practices are intended to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance. We benchmark market practices and regularly review our compensation and benefits against the market to help ensure that it is competitive. We also offer a comprehensive set of benefits for employees and their families focused on physical, mental, and financial health and wellbeing. Our compensation and benefits programs are tailored to the various geographies in which we operate and, for eligible employees, may include: Market-competitive salary and cash bonus opportunity; 11 Table of Contents Employee Stock Purchase Plan; Equity compensation; Robust medical, dental, vision, and wellness benefits; Comprehensive leave plans; Life insurance options; Retirement plans and associated benefits; Financial planning tools and employee assistance plans; Student loan repayment assistance; Cancer-specific prevention, early detection, treatment, and support programs; and Parental resources and adoption benefits. Health, Safety and Wellbeing Our commitment to health, safety, and wellness was underscored this year by the support and resources we offered to help employees continue to thrive in a hybrid work environment, and achieve balance between their work and personal lives. Our Stronger Through Wellbeing campaign encourages our leaders and managers to model the importance of health and wellbeing and create opportunities to engage in wellness-related activities as a team. We also offer a variety of programs and resources at no cost to employees and their family members to support their mental, emotional, and financial wellbeing. Employee Engagement We have a comprehensive employee feedback program, and we use the feedback to gain an understanding of the employee experience and to make improvements in a variety of areas. These areas include how we interact with customers to how we share best practices, and more. Through our annual SHAPE Synopsys surveys, we obtain employee insight into our values, manager effectiveness, ability to innovate, perceptions on inclusion and belonging, and other critical factors. We also use pulse surveys to create space for important conversations about who we are, where we are going, and how we can connect with each other and our work. In October 2024, approximately 91% of our employees participated in the SHAPE survey. We received an engagement score of 80, which was calculated by averaging the scores of all employee responses to questions about job satisfaction on a 100-point scale. In fiscal 2024, Synopsys received nearly 60 awards for workplace and culture, including certification as a Great Place to Work in 14 countries and recognition from Newsweek, Forbes, Fortune, US News and World Report, Comparably, and more. These results demonstrate Synopsys' stability and resiliency, and the fact that we have a global workforce that is highly engaged. We saw strong scores from our employees regarding their excitement for the company's future, trust in leadership, sense of belonging to Synopsys, and personal investment in the mission. To help promote employee engagement and recognition, we invest in programs such as the annual Engineering and Innovation Conference (EILC) and Pitch Fest innovation contest to empower our team and inspire innovation. As we grow, we aspire to maintain our results-oriented culture by balancing productivity with smart investments in our employees development, while also supporting individual wellbeing. These are two key drivers of the overall employee experience. We also believe ongoing performance feedback encourages greater engagement in our business and improved individual performance. Each year, our employees participate in our performance development process, which summarizes key accomplishments for the preceding year, establishes new stretch goals and objectives, and identifies critical capabilities for development. As part of this process, we encourage managers to solicit and share supportive multi-rater feedback, further strengthening the focus on teamwork and team success. Talent Development and Succession Planning We offer several programs to support the career advancement of our employees. Through our digital learning platform, we seek to foster and support a curious learning culture where employees can access training, external articles, videos, and blogs. In addition, we host a series of in-person and on-demand learning sessions designed to build capability and adaptability required for the future. As employees advance in their careers, our training framework is intended to build new technical skills and core capabilities. Our management training is designed to increase capability in the areas of communication, engagement, coaching, inclusion and belonging, hiring, and key business skills. This is based on our belief that our employees should work for and with great managers and leaders. The training aims to promote an ethical and supportive work environment that is free from bias and harassment. In fiscal 2024, we introduced courses for our front line and middle 12 Table of Contents management focused on helping our many managers lead through change and giving them the tools to be great coaches and leaders. In addition, our regions and business teams customize development programs for their specific demographic. Information about our Executive Officers The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 18, 2024 were as follows: Name Age Position Sassine Ghazi 54 President and Chief Executive Officer Aart J. de Geus 70 Executive Chair of the Board of Directors Shelagh Glaser 60 Chief Financial Officer Richard Mahoney 62 Chief Revenue Officer John F. Runkel, Jr. 69 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Sassine Ghazi has served as our Chief Executive Officer since January 2024, became our President in November 2021 and joined our Board of Directors in August 2023. Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer, he served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2020 to January 2024. Mr. Ghazi joined Synopsys in March 1998 as an applications engineer and held a series of sales positions with increasing responsibility, culminating in leadership of worldwide strategic accounts. Prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Ghazi was the general manager for all digital and custom products, the largest business group in Synopsys. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ghazi was a design engineer at Intel Corporation. Mr. Ghazi received his bachelors degree in Business Administration from Lebanese American University; a B.S.E.E from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993; and an M.S.E.E. from the University of Tennessee in 1995. Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and served as a member of our Board of Directors since our inception and as Chair of our Board of Directors from 1986 to 1992 and from 1998 until his transition to Executive Chair of our Board of Directors in January 2024. He served as Chief Executive Officer from 1994 to 2012 and as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan from May 2012 until April 2022, and Chief Executive Officer from April 2022 until January 2024. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Shelagh Glaser has served as our Chief Financial Officer since December 2022. Prior to joining Synopsys, Ms. Glaser served as Chief Financial Officer of Zendesk, Inc. from May 2021 to November 2022. Ms. Glaser previously served in senior finance roles at Intel Corporation, a multinational technology company, including serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for its Data Platform Group from July 2019 to May 2021 and serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in various other senior roles in its Client Computing Group from December 2013 to July 2019. Ms. Glaser has served as a director and member of the Audit Committee at PubMatic, Inc. since June 2022. Ms. Glaser holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of Michigan and an M.B.A. in Finance from Carnegie Mellon University. Richard Mahoney has served as our Chief Revenue Officer since November 2022. Mr. Mahoney joined Synopsys as a Special Projects Advisor in May 2022. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Mahoney held several senior management positions with ANSYS, Inc. (Ansys) from 2016 to 2022, including most recently as Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Customer Excellence from December 2016 to May 2022. Prior to joining Ansys, from 2014 to 2016, Mr. Mahoney was Senior Vice President, Design Enablement and International Sales, at Global Foundries, a semiconductor manufacturing company. Mr. Mahoney holds an A.S. in Computer Science from the Maxwell Institute of Technology. John F. Runkel, Jr. has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2014. From October 2008 to March 2013, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Affymetrix, Inc. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Runkel served in several roles at VISX, Inc. from 2001 to 2005, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Development and General Counsel. Mr. Runkel was also a partner at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP for 11 years. Mr. Runkel holds a Bachelor of Arts and a Juris Doctorate from the University of California, Los Angeles. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Industry Risks Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may not be competitive or may become obsolete. We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. Business Operations Risks The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transactions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire. Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and our reputation. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business will be harmed. We may not be successful in our AI initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. If we fail to timely recruit and/or retain senior management and key employees globally, our business may be harmed. We may pursue new product and technology initiatives or expand into adjacent markets, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, we could be adversely impacted. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Our hardware products, which primarily consist of prototyping and emulation systems, subject us to distinct risks. From time to time, we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. Risks Related to the Ansys Merger We may fail to complete the Ansys Merger or may not complete it on the terms described herein or in our other filings with the SEC. The Ansys Merger is subject to the receipt of governmental approvals that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Ansys Merger. Failure to realize the benefits expected from the Ansys Merger could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the Ansys Merger, we anticipate that the scope and size of our operations and business will substantially change and will result in certain incremental risks to us, including increased competition. We may not realize the full expected benefits of the Ansys Merger. Our significant debt may limit our financial flexibility following the Ansys Merger. 14 Table of Contents The covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness following the Ansys Merger may impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that may affect our ability to operate our businesses. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in tax laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, or any change in the application of existing laws and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates and financial results. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations that could expose us to numerous risks. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. General Risks Catastrophic events and the effects of climate change, pandemics or other unexpected events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Factors that May Affect Future Results Descriptions of risks associated with our business are set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in the following discussion and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Legal Proceedings,