Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in particular the following discussion, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements can, in some cases, be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, could, would, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project or continue, the negatives of such terms, or other comparable terminology. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the expected growth in the semiconductor industry, our positive business outlook, the ability of our prior acquisitions to drive revenue growth, the percent of revenue with which we expect to enter each quarter, our expectations with respect to organic and inorganic growth opportunities, our ability to make adjustments to our business as market conditions change and to successfully compete in the electronic design automation industry, our ability to successfully execute our strategies, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations, and our future liquidity requirements. These statements involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those identified below in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q. The information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1. of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012, as filed with the SEC on December 20, 2012. Overview Business Summary Synopsys is a global leader in providing software, intellectual property and services used to accelerate innovation in integrated circuits and electronic systems. We supply the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design, create prototypes for and test integrated circuits, also known as chips. We also supply software and hardware used to develop the systems that incorporate integrated circuits and the software that runs on those integrated circuits. Our intellectual property (IP) products are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than redesigning those circuits themselves. To complement these product offerings, we provide technical services to support our solutions and we help our customers develop chips and electronic systems. Our customers are generally large semiconductor and electronics manufacturers. Our solutions help them overcome the challenge of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while reducing their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, our customers research and development budget and spending decisions may be impacted by their business outlook and their willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. Despite global economic uncertainty, we have maintained profitability and positive cash flow on an annual basis in recent years. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technology and strong customer relationships, but also because of our recurring revenue business model. Under this model, a substantial majority of our customers pay for their licenses over time and we typically recognize this recurring revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Recurring revenue generally represents more than 90% of our total revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. We typically enter each quarter with greater than 90% of our revenue for that particular quarter already committed from our customers, providing for stability and predictability of results. Due to our business model, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Even with the continued instability of the global markets, our business outlook remains strong based on our business model, strong financials, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy. In addition, consumer demand for electronics has been solid, particularly the demand for mobile devices. Through our recent acquisitions, we have 17 Table of Contents enhanced our technology and expanded our product portfolio and our total addressable market, especially in IP and system-level solutions, which we believe will help drive revenue growth. We believe that the combination of our solid financials, leading technology and strong customer relationships will help us to continue to successfully execute our strategies. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year generally ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2013 will be a 52-week year and will end on November 2, 2013. Fiscal 2012 was a 53-week year ending on November 3, 2012. Our results of operations for the first quarters of fiscal 2013 and 2012 included 13 weeks and 14 weeks, respectively, and the quarters ended on February 2, 2013 and February 4, 2012, respectively. The extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 resulted in approximately $26 million of additional revenue, related primarily to time-based licenses, and approximately $16 million of additional expenses. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-Q, including the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, refers to the applicable calendar month ends of January 31, 2013 and 2012 as the ends of the first quarters of fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Financial Performance Summary for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2013 (Compared to the Three Months Ended January 31, 2012) We continued to derive more than 90% of our revenue from time-based licenses, maintenance and services. Our total revenue was $475.1 million, an increase of 12% compared to same period in fiscal 2012. Fiscal 2012 included an extra week that added $26 million of revenue to the first fiscal quarter of 2012. Normalizing for the extra week in fiscal 2012, total revenue grew by $75.6 million or 19%, primarily due to our continued growth both organically and through acquisitions. Total operating expense and cost of revenues were $414.2 million, an increase of 17% compared to fiscal 2012. Excluding the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2012 which added $16 million in expenses, expenses increased by $74.7 million or 22%, primarily due to increases in employee-related costs, resulting from increases in headcount from acquisitions, and higher amortization and depreciation expenses. Our income tax provision decreased by $15.3 million, primarily driven by reinstatement of the federal research tax credit for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 and the reversal of deferred taxes resulting from the merger of a foreign affiliate. Fiscal 2013 includes a retroactive benefit of approximately $6 million for the reinstated research tax credit for fiscal 2012, in addition to the impact of the research tax credit benefit for fiscal 2013. As a net effect of the above-mentioned factors, net income increased by 23% or $13.2 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2012. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under the heading Results of Operations below are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and net income. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; Valuation of stock compensation; Valuation of intangible assets; and Income taxes. We describe our revenue recognition policy below. Our remaining critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012, filed with the SEC on December 20, 2012. 18 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Software license revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual and term licenses and professional services fees. Hardware revenue consists of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)-based emulation and prototyping systems. With respect to software licenses, we utilize three license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs). TSLs are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We bundle and do not charge separately for post-contract customer support (maintenance) for the term of the license. Term licenses. Term licenses are also for a finite term, but do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually for the balance of the term. The annual maintenance fee is typically calculated as a percentage of the net license fee. Perpetual licenses. Perpetual licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the three software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees (which include bundled maintenance) ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Term licenses. We recognize revenue from term licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these term licenses is reported as upfront revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. For term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer payments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. We also enter into arrangements in which portions of revenue are contingent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, for example, royalty arrangements. We refer to this revenue as contingent revenue. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the applicable event occurs. Such revenue is reported as time-based revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Historically, these arrangements have not been material to our total revenue. We recognize revenue from hardware sales in full upon shipment if all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these hardware sales is reported as upfront revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Hardware sales have not been material to our total revenue. We infrequently enter into multiple-element arrangements that contain both software and non-software deliverables such as hardware. On a prospective basis beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we applied accounting guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables to these contracts. Such arrangements have not had a material effect on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and are not expected to have a material effect on subsequent periods. We have determined that the software and non-software deliverables in our contracts are separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we allocate the arrangement consideration to separate units of accounting based on estimated standalone selling prices (ESP) because we do not have objective evidence of standalone selling prices. We estimate the standalone selling prices of our separate units of accounting considering both market conditions and our own specific 19 Table of Contents conditions. For hardware deliverables, we determine ESP using gross margin because we have consistent pricing practices and gross margins for these products. Determining the ESP for software deliverables requires significant judgment. We determine ESP for software deliverables after considering customer geographies, market demand and competition at the time of contract negotiation, gross margin objectives, existing portfolio pricing practices, contractually stated prices and prices for similar historical transactions. We recognize revenue for the separate units of accounting when all revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue allocated to hardware units of accounting is recognized upon shipment when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue allocated to software units of accounting is recognized according to the methods described above depending on the software license type (TSL, term license or perpetual license). We recognize revenue from maintenance fees ratably over the maintenance period to the extent cash has been received or fees become due and payable, and recognize revenue from professional services and training fees as such services are performed and accepted by the customer. Revenue attributable to maintenance, professional services and training is reported as maintenance and service revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. We also enter into arrangements to deliver software products, either alone or together with other products or services that require significant modification, or customization of the software. We account for such arrangements using the percentage of completion method as we have the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates that relate to the extent of progress toward completion, contract revenues and costs. We measure the progress towards completion using the labor hours incurred to complete the project. Revenue attributable to these arrangements is reported as maintenance and service revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. We determine the fair value of each element in multiple element software arrangements that contain only software and software related deliverables based on vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). We limit our assessment of VSOE of fair value for each element to the price charged when such element is sold separately. We have analyzed all of the elements included in our multiple-element software arrangements and have determined that we have sufficient VSOE to allocate revenue to the maintenance components of our perpetual and term license products and to professional services. Accordingly, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, we recognize license revenue from perpetual and term licenses upon delivery using the residual method, recognize revenue from maintenance ratably over the maintenance term, and recognize revenue from professional services as services are performed and accepted by the customer. We recognize revenue from TSLs ratably over the term of the license, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, since there is not sufficient VSOE to allocate the TSL fee between license and maintenance services. We make significant judgments related to revenue recognition. Specifically, in connection with each transaction involving our products, we must evaluate whether: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery of software or services has occurred, (3) the fee for such software or services is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability of the full license or service fee is probable. All four of these criteria must be met in order for us to recognize revenue with respect to a particular arrangement. We apply these revenue recognition criteria as follows: Persuasive Evidence of an Arrangement Exists. Prior to recognizing revenue on an arrangement, our customary policy is to have a written contract, signed by both the customer and by us or a purchase order from those customers that have previously negotiated a standard end-user license arrangement or purchase agreement. Delivery Has Occurred. We deliver our products to our customers electronically or physically. For electronic deliveries, delivery occurs when we provide access to our customers to take immediate possession of the software through downloading it to the customers hardware. For physical deliveries, the standard transfer terms are typically Freight on Board (FOB) shipping point. We generally ship our products or license keys promptly after acceptance of customer orders. However, a number of factors can affect the timing of product shipments and, as a result, timing of revenue recognition, including the delivery dates requested by customers and our operational capacity to fulfill product orders at the end of a fiscal quarter. The Fee is Fixed or Determinable. Our determination that an arrangement fee is fixed or determinable depends principally on the arrangements payment terms. Our standard payment terms for perpetual and term licenses require 75% or more of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee to be paid within one year. If the arrangement includes these terms, we regard the fee as fixed or determinable, and recognize all license revenue under the arrangement in full upon delivery (assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met). If the arrangement does not include these terms, we do not consider the fee to be fixed or determinable and generally recognize revenue when customer installments are due and payable. In the case of a TSL, because of the right to exchange products or receive unspecified future technology and because VSOE for maintenance services does not exist for a TSL, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license, but not in advance of when customers installments become due and payable. 20 Table of Contents Collectability is Probable. We judge collectability of the arrangement fees on a customer-by-customer basis pursuant to our credit review policy. We typically sell to customers with whom we have a history of successful collection. For a new customer, or when an existing customer substantially expands its commitments, we evaluate the customers financial position and ability to pay and typically assign a credit limit based on that review. We increase the credit limit only after we have established a successful collection history with the customer. If we determine at any time that collectability is not probable under a particular arrangement based upon our credit review process or the customers payment history, we recognize revenue under that arrangement as customer payments are actually received. Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of software licenses, maintenance and professional services and to a small extent, hardware products. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a term or perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is delivered. Substantially all of our current time-based licenses are TSLs with an average license term of approximately three years. The average license term of the TSLs and term licenses we entered into for the three months ended January 31, 2013 and 2012 was 2.4 and 2.6 years, respectively. Revenue on contracts requiring significant modification or development is accounted for using the percentage of completion method over the period of the development. Revenue on hardware product orders is generally recognized in full at the time the product is shipped. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the applicable event occurs. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). Revenue on professional services orders is generally recognized after services are performed and accepted by the customer. Our revenue in any fiscal quarter is equal to the sum of our time-based license, upfront, maintenance and professional services and hardware revenue for the period. We derive time-based license revenue in any quarter largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent due to contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and from contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront revenue directly from term and perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the quarter. We derive maintenance revenue in any quarter largely from maintenance orders received in prior quarters since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional services revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services as those services are delivered and accepted or on percentage of completion for arrangements requiring significant modification of our software, and not when they are booked. Our license revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual or term licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL delivered on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the twelve succeeding quarters. Conversely, a $120,000 order for perpetual and term licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is delivered, but no future revenue. Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual and term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees and 100% of the maintenance fees are payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 475.1 $ 425.5 $ 49.6 12 % Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements, including payment terms and the timing and value of contract renewals. 21 Table of Contents The increase in total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily in time-based license revenue and was due to our organic growth and revenue from acquired companies. The first quarter of fiscal 2012 included an extra week which had an impact of additional revenues of $26.0 million. Excluding this impact, revenue was higher by $75.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Time-Based License Revenue January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 385.9 $ 355.9 $ 30.0 8 % Percentage of total revenue 81 % 84 % The increase in time-based license revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily attributable to increases in TSL license revenue from contracts acquired through fiscal 2012 acquisitions. The effect of these increases is partially offset by the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Upfront Revenue January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 30.8 $ 28.5 $ 2.3 8 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 7 % Changes in upfront revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront revenue in any particular period, and to a lesser extent, the sales of our hardware products. The increase in upfront license revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily attributable to an increase in the sale of perpetual licenses. Maintenance and Service Revenue January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Maintenance revenue $ 20.9 $ 17.8 $ 3.1 17 % Professional services and other revenue 37.5 23.3 14.2 61 % Total maintenance and service revenue $ 58.4 $ 41.1 $ 17.3 42 % Percentage of total revenue 12 % 10 % Maintenance revenue increased by $3.1 million in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012. Maintenance revenue fluctuates primarily due to the timing of renewals of maintenance contracts. Professional services and other revenue increased in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012, primarily due to an increase in customer consulting contracts and project completions. Cost of Revenue January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cost of license revenue $ 64.5 $ 57.7 $ 6.8 12 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 20.1 18.8 1.3 7 % Amortization of intangible assets 26.5 13.4 13.1 98 % Total $ 111.1 $ 89.9 $ 21.2 24 % Percentage of total revenue 23 % 21 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of license revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of license revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract 22 Table of Contents support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of license revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on license and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of license revenue. Cost of license revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products which have reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and training organization, and costs associated with the delivery of our consulting services, such as, hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of certain contract rights and the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete and other intangibles related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily due to an increase of $13.1 million in amortization of intangible assets from companies acquired during fiscal 2012, $6.9 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases from our acquisitions and $1.0 million in professional services driven by higher consulting service activities. The increase in cost of revenues was offset by $2.2 million due to one additional week of costs in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2013. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue marginally increased in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 due to the increase in amortization of intangible assets from companies acquired during fiscal 2012. Operating Expenses Research and Development January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 157.5 $ 132.9 $ 24.6 19 % Percentage of total revenue 33 % 31 % The increase in research and development expenses in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily due to an increase of $24.9 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, primarily from our acquisitions. Also contributing to the increase were a $2.3 million reduction in contingent consideration liability in fiscal 2012 and functionally allocated expenses that were higher by $3.2 million in fiscal 2013. The increase in research and development expenses was partially offset by an additional week of expenses of approximately $7.5 million in fiscal 2012. Sales and Marketing January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 101.8 $ 95.4 $ 6.4 7 % Percentage of total revenue 21 % 22 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily due to increases in personnel-related costs of $7.4 million primarily driven by headcount increases from our acquisitions, and $3.6 million in variable compensation due to higher shipments. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was offset by the additional week of expenses of approximately $4.9 million in fiscal 2012. 23 Table of Contents General and Administrative January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 37.9 $ 33.8 $ 4.1 12 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 8 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily due to an increase of $3.1 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases primarily from our acquisitions, $2.0 million in professional service costs, and $2.2 million in facility expenses from our acquisitions. The increases were partially offset by a higher allocation of $2.4 million in expenses to other functions compared to the same period in fiscal 2012, resulting from increased expenses in the allocation pool, and the additional week of expenses of approximately $1.6 million in fiscal 2012. Amortization of Intangible Assets January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Included in cost of revenue $ 26.5 $ 13.4 $ 13.1 98 % Included in operating expenses 5.9 3.5 2.4 69 % Total $ 32.4 $ 16.9 $ 15.5 92 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 4 % The increase in amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was due to the amortization of intangible assets from our prior year acquisitions. See Note 6 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts. Other Income (Expense), net January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Interest income $ 0.3 $ 0.5 $ (0.2 ) (40 )% Interest (expense) (0.5 ) 0.0 (0.5 ) 100 % Gain on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan assets 5.4 2.6 2.8 108 % Foreign currency exchange gain 4.4 0.0 4.4 100 % Other, net 1.1 0.7 0.4 57 % Total $ 10.7 $ 3.8 $ 6.9 182 % The increase in other income (expense), net in the three months ended January 31, 2013 compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 was primarily due to favorable movement in both foreign currency exchange and in the value of investments within the executive deferred compensation plan. Taxes Our effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2012 was lower principally due to the extension of the U.S. federal research credit in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, which resulted in an additional tax credit for ten months of fiscal 2012 as well as a full year credit for fiscal 2013, compared to only two months of credit in fiscal 2012 as a result of the expiration of the credit on December 31, 2011, and due to the reversal of deferred taxes resulting from the merger of a foreign affiliate. For further discussion of the provision for income taxes, see Note 15 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash and cash equivalents are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of January 31, 2013, we held an aggregate of $151.3 million in cash and cash equivalents in the United States and an aggregate of $399.1 million in our foreign subsidiaries. Funds held in our foreign subsidiaries are generated from revenue 24 Table of Contents outside North America. At present, such foreign funds are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign countries to the extent of indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings. However, in the event funds from foreign operations were needed to fund cash needs in the U.S. and if U.S. taxes have not already been previously accrued, we would be required to accrue and pay additional U.S. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. The following sections discuss changes in our unaudited, condensed balance sheets and statements of cash flow, and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during the three months ended January 31, 2013. Cash and Cash Equivalents January 31, 2013 October 31, 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 550.4 $ 700.4 $ (150.0 ) (21 )% Our cash used in operating activities was $91.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Other cash investing and financing activities were (1) payment for the remaining non-controlling interest in SpringSoft of $44.0 million, (2) purchases of property and equipment of $14.0 million, (3) proceeds from issuances of common stock primarily arising from the exercise of stock options of $15.6 million, and (4) payment for our Term Loan (as defined below) of $7.5 million. Cash Flows January 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cash used in operating activities $ (91.4 ) $ (39.3 ) $ (52.1 ) 133 % Cash used in investing activities (14.8 ) (1.5 ) (13.3 ) 887 % Cash used in financing activities (36.4 ) 0.0 (36.4 ) 100 % We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront revenue much sooner than from time-based license revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. Cash used in operating activities . Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2013 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 primarily due to higher disbursements offset partly due to higher collections from customers, attributable to timing. Cash used in investing activities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2013 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 as outflows due to purchase of property and equipment were offset by net inflows from sales of short-term investments in the first quarter of 2012. Cash used in financing activities. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2013 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2012 primarily due to payment for acquiring the remaining non-controlling interest in SpringSoft, debt repayment offset partly by repurchases made under our stock repurchase program in 2012, and a decrease in proceeds from issuances of common stock. Accounts Receivable, net January 31, 2013 October 31, 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) $270.2 $292.7 $(22.5) (8)% Our accounts receivable and days sales outstanding (DSO) are primarily driven by our billing and collections activities. Our DSO was 52 days at January 31, 2013, and 59 days at October 31, 2012. DSO decreased primarily due to increased revenue and a decrease in our accounts receivable balance. 25 Table of Contents Working Capital . Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets: January 31, 2013 October 31, 2012 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 999.8 $ 1,140.7 $ (140.9 ) (12 )% Current liabilities 1,022.0 1,252.6 (230.6 ) (18 )% Working capital $ (22.2 ) $ (111.9 ) $ 89.7 80% Changes in our working capital were primarily due to: (1) a $159.6 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, (2) a $77.0 million decrease in deferred revenue due to timing of our billings and (3) a $26.1 million increase in prepaid and other current assets primarily related to the timing of payments of annual maintenance contracts and higher foreign currency exchange contract assets. These changes in working capital were partially offset by a $150.0 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents, and a $22.5 million decrease in accounts receivable. Other CommitmentsCredit Facility On February 17, 2012, we entered into an agreement with several lenders (the Credit Agreement) providing for (i) a $350.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) and (ii) a $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the Term Loan). Principal payments on a portion of the Term Loan are due in equal quarterly installments of $7.5 million, with the remainder due when the Credit Agreement expires in October 2016. Subject to obtaining additional commitments from lenders, the principal amount of the loans provided under the Credit Agreement may be increased by up to an additional $150.0 million through October 13, 2015. As of January 31, 2013, we had no outstanding balance under the Revolver and a $127.5 million outstanding balance under the Term Loan, of which $97.5 million is classified as long-term. The interest paid on borrowings under the Credit Agreement and commitment fees paid on the Revolver are variable rates tied to LIBOR plus a spread based on our leverage ratio. Other As of January 31, 2013, our cash equivalents consist of cash deposits, tax-exempt money market mutual funds and taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. During the three months ended January 31, 2013 and 2012, we had no impairment charge associated with our investment portfolio. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we regularly review our investments and associated risk profiles, which we believe will allow us to effectively manage the risks of our investment portfolio. We proactively manage our cash and cash equivalents and investments balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash and our cash equivalents portfolio invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements .