Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Results of OperationsRevenue Background . We typically license our DesignWare IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. Royalty arrangements are not material to our total revenue. 10 Table of Contents Our hardware products, which principally consist of our prototyping and emulation systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project. Competition The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation (now part of Siemens AG). We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers internally developed design tools and capabilities. In the area of IP products, we compete against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability and features, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. In the area of Software Integrity solutions, we compete with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. For example, competitors named in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing include Checkmarx Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Micro Focus International plc, and Veracode (acquired by Thoma Bravo, LLC). Proprietary Rights We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,100 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2037 . Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. While protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Employees As of October 31, 2018 , Synopsys had 13,245 employees, of which 4,679 were based in the United States. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 14, 2018 were as follows: Name Age Position Aart J. de Geus 64 Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Chi-Foon Chan 69 Co-Chief Executive Officer and President Trac Pham 49 Chief Financial Officer Joseph W. Logan 59 Sales and Corporate Marketing Officer John F. Runkel, Jr. 63 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He has served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan since May 2012. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Chi-Foon Chan has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997. Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case Western Reserve University. Trac Pham is our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Pham joined Synopsys in November 2006 as Vice President, Financial Planning and Strategy. He became our Vice President, Corporate Finance, in August 2012, assuming additional responsibility for our tax and treasury functions, before being appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2014. Mr. Pham holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley and an MPIA (Master of Pacific International Affairs) from the University of California, San Diego. He is an active status California CPA. Joseph W. Logan serves as our Sales and Corporate Marketing Officer. He became Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales in September 2006, and assumed responsibility for our Corporate Marketing organization in August 2013. Previously, Mr. Logan was head of sales for Synopsys North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. John F. Runkel, Jr. has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2014. From October 2008 to March 2013, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Affymetrix, Inc. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Runkel served in several roles at VISX, Inc. from 2001 to 2005, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Development and General Counsel. Mr. Runkel was also a partner at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP for 11 years. He holds a Bachelor of Arts and a Juris Doctorate from the University of California, Los Angeles. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Investors should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries. The growth of the electronic design automation (EDA) industry as a whole, our EDA and intellectual property (IP) product sales, and to some extent our Software Integrity Solutions sales, is dependent on the semiconductor and electronics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of systems-on-chips and integrated circuits, and customers concerns about managing costs, have previously led and in the future could lead to a decrease in design starts and design activity in general, with some customers focusing more on one discrete phase of the design process or opting for less advanced, but less risky, manufacturing processes that may not require the most advanced EDA products. Demand for our products and services could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if growth in the semiconductor and electronics industries slows or stalls. Additionally, as the EDA industry matures, consolidation may result in stronger competition from companies better able to compete as sole source vendors. This increased competition may cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor and electronics industries have become increasingly complex ecosystems. Many of our customers outsource the manufacture of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the efficiency of their design process. We work closely with major foundries to ensure that our EDA, IP, and manufacturing solutions are compatible with their manufacturing processes. Similarly, we work closely with other major providers of semiconductor IP, particularly microprocessor IP, to optimize our EDA tools for use with their IP designs and to assure that their IP and our own IP products, which may each provide for the design of separate components on the same chip, work effectively together. If we fail to optimize our EDA and IP solutions for use with major foundries manufacturing processes or major IP providers products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP products is hampered, then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. A number of business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships, among our customers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining power, or reduced customer spending on software and services. Furthermore, we depend on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenue. Reduced customer spending or the loss of a small number of customers, particularly our large customers, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we and our competitors from time to time acquire businesses and technologies to complement and expand our respective product offerings. If any of our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies which we do not offer, they may be able to offer a larger technology portfolio, additional support and service capability, or lower prices, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Uncertainty in the global economy, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. While the global economy has shown improvement in recent years, there are still uncertainties surrounding the strength of the recovery in many regions. Uncertainty caused by challenging global economic conditions could lead some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Such caution by customers could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts. We cannot predict the stability of the economy as a whole or the industries in which we operate. Further economic instability could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry and result in credit downgrades of the 13 Table of Contents banks we rely on for foreign currency forward contracts, credit and banking transactions, and deposit services, or cause them to default on their obligations. There is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to the complex laws and regulations governing our industry, the banking and financial services industry, and the economy could affect our business. In addition, economic conditions could deteriorate in the future, and, in particular, the semiconductor and electronics industries could fail to grow, including as the result of any disruption of international trade relationships. In the event of future improvements in economic conditions for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to our business model. Any of the foregoing could cause adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition, and could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors may cause our revenue or earnings to fluctuate, including: Changes in demand for our productsespecially products, such as hardware, generating upfront revenuedue to fluctuations in demand for our customers products and due to constraints in our customers budgets for research and development and EDA products and services; Product competition in the EDA industry, which can change rapidly due to industry or customer consolidation and technological innovation; Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle, which often includes a substantial customer evaluation and approval process because of the complexity of our products and services; Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenue; Changes to the amount, composition and valuation of, and any impairments to or write-offs of, our inventory; Changes in the mix of our products sold, as increased sales of our products with lower gross margins, such as our hardware products, may reduce our overall margins; Expenses related to our acquisition and integration of businesses and technology; Changes in tax rules, as well as changes to our effective tax rate, including the tax effects of infrequent or unusual transactions and tax audit settlements; Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products, which includes a sole supplier for certain hardware components; General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries, such as disruptions to international trade relationships, including tariffs, export licenses, or other trade barriers affecting our or our suppliers' products; and Changes in accounting standards, such as Topic 606, as discussed in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , which, for example, could impact the expected realization of our backlog. The timing of revenue recognition may also cause our revenue and earnings to fluctuate. The timing of revenue recognition is affected by factors that include: Cancellations or changes in levels of orders or the mix between upfront products revenue and time-based products revenue; Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront products revenue, such as hardware; Delay in the completion of professional services projects that require significant modification or customization and are accounted for using the percentage of completion method; Delay in the completion and delivery of IP products in development as to which customers have paid for early access; 14 Table of Contents Customer contract amendments or renewals that provide discounts or defer revenue to later periods; The levels of our hardware revenues, which are recognized upfront and are primarily dependent upon our ability to provide the latest technology and meet customer requirements, and which may also impact our levels of excess and obsolete inventory expenses; Changes in accounting standards, such as Topic 606, as discussed in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ; and Changes in our revenue recognition model. These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our revenue or earnings and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, our results may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or such analysts may change their recommendation regarding our stock, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares at a time or a price that is favorable to them. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may become uncompetitive and obsolete, and our business and financial condition may be harmed. We compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation (now part of Siemens AG). We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process. Moreover, our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products, including internal designs that compete with our IP products. In the area of IP products, we compete against numerous other IP providers as well as our customers' internally developed IP. In the area of software integrity solutions, we compete with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and the demand for our products and services is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including demand for our customers products, design starts and our customers budgetary constraints. Technology in these industries evolves rapidly and is characterized by frequent product introductions and improvements as well as changes in industry standards and customer requirements. Semiconductor device functionality requirements continually increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and risk of chip design and manufacturing. At the same time, our customers and potential customers continue to demand an overall lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their purchases with one vendor. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license or usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles and technological shifts, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing products, and successfully develop or acquire new products; Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance; Our ability to enhance the value of our offerings through more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights, price discounts and other differentiating rights, such as multiple tool copies, post-contract customer support, re-mix rights that allow customers to exchange the software they initially licensed for other Synopsys products, and the ability to purchase pools of technology; Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms; and Our ability to provide engineering and design consulting for our products. If we fail to successfully manage these competitive factors, fail to successfully balance the conflicting demands for innovative technology and lower overall costs, or fail to address new competitive forces, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations that may adversely affect our business. We derive roughly half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have continually expanded our non-U.S. operations in the past several years. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the U.S. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of increased risks, including: Ineffective or weaker legal protection of intellectual property rights; Uncertain economic and political conditions in countries where we do business; Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business, which may include business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws; Financial risks such as longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; Inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; Government trade restrictions, including tariffs, export licenses, or other trade barriers, and changes to existing trade arrangements between various countries; Additional taxes, interest, and potential penalties, and uncertainty around changes in tax laws of various countries; and Other factors beyond our control such as natural disasters, terrorism, civil unrest, war and infectious diseases. As our business volume increases in the Asia Pacific region, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between certain Asian countries and the United States, that political, diplomatic, or military events could result in trade disruptions, including tariffs, trade embargoes, and other trade barriers. A significant trade disruption or the establishment or increase of any trade barrier in any area where we do business could increase the cost of our products, which could adversely impact the margin that we earn on sales; make our products more expensive for customers, which could make our products less competitive and reduce consumer demand; adversely restrict or delay our suppliers of hardware components and products, which could adversely impact our future revenues and financial results; or otherwise have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits, our and our customers and suppliers businesses, and our results of operations. Furthermore, if any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In response to U.S. tariffs, other countries may adopt tariffs and other trade barriers that could limit our ability to offer our products and services. Additionally, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes could have a negative impact on consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely impact our business operations. In addition to tariffs and other trade barriers, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to these complex laws and regulations could affect our business. We may incur substantial expense in complying with the new obligations to be imposed by these laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and our business overall. If we violate these laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to help ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or partners will not violate such laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our financial results are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies increases expenses of our foreign subsidiaries when they are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated statement of operations. Likewise, a strengthening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, especially the Japanese Yen, reduces revenue of our foreign subsidiaries upon translation and consolidation. 16 Table of Contents Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Although we engage in foreign currency hedging activity, we may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and our reputation, particularly that of our security testing solutions. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and confidential employee information, in our data centers and on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. For example, in October 2015, we discovered unauthorized third-party access, which had begun in July 2015, to our products and product license files hosted on our SolvNet customer license and product delivery system. We determined that no customer project or design data had been accessed. No personally identifiable information or payment card information is stored on the system. While we identified and closed the method used to gain access, it is possible that our security measures may be circumvented again in the future, and such a breach could harm our business and reputation. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to networks, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, in the operation of our business we also use third-party vendors that store certain sensitive data, including confidential information about our employees, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. While our standard vendor terms and conditions include provisions requiring the use of appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our data, as well as other safeguards, a breach may still occur. Any security breach of our own or a third-party vendors systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our software products, including our hosted solutions as well as our software security and quality testing solutions, may also be vulnerable to cyber attack. An attack could disrupt the proper functioning of our software, cause errors in the output of our customers work, allow unauthorized access to our or our customers proprietary information, and other destructive outcomes. As a result, our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our products, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. We offer software security and quality testing solutions. If we fail to identify new and increasingly sophisticated methods of cyber attack, or fail to invest sufficient resources in research and development regarding new threat vectors, our security testing products and services may fail to detect vulnerabilities in our customers software code. An actual or perceived failure to identify security flaws may harm the perceived reliability of our security testing products and services, and could result in a loss of customers or sales, or an increased cost to remedy a problem. Furthermore, our growth and recent acquisitions in the software security and quality testing space may increase our visibility as a security-focused company and may make us a more attractive target for attacks on our own information technology infrastructure. Successful attacks could damage our reputation as a security-focused company. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our efforts to protect our technology may be costly and unsuccessful. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and other third-parties as well as intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, despite our measures to prevent piracy, other parties may attempt to illegally copy or use our products, which could result in lost revenue. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also be stolen, otherwise become known, or be independently developed by competitors. We may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: Assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; Defend our products from piracy; 17 Table of Contents Protect our trade secrets or know-how; or Determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years. We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future, but we may not find suitable acquisition targets or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions due to unfavorable credit markets, commercially unacceptable terms, or other risks, which could harm our operating results. Acquisitions are difficult, time-consuming, and pose a number of risks, including: Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; Difficulties entering into new markets in which we are not experienced or where competitors may have stronger positions; Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products; Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; Substantial reductions of our cash resources and/or the incurrence of debt; Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; Difficulties in integrating or expanding sales, marketing and distribution functions and administrative systems, including information technology and human resources systems; Dilution of our current stockholders through the issuance of common stock as part of the merger consideration; Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax and litigation, and the related expenses and diversion of resources; Disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of managements attention and uncertainty for employees and customers, particularly during the post-acquisition integration process; Potential negative impacts on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; Exposure to new operational risks, regulations, and business customs to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where we are not currently conducting business; The need to implement controls, processes and policies appropriate for a public company at acquired companies that may have lacked such controls, processes and policies; Negative impact on our net income resulting from acquisition-related costs; and Requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of an acquisition, including required divestitures or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business. If we do not manage the foregoing risks, the acquisitions that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We pursue new product and technology initiatives from time to time, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. As part of the evolution of our business, we have made substantial investments to develop new products and enhancements to existing products through our acquisitions and research and development efforts. If we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we fail to introduce products that meet market demand, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, from time to time, we invest in expansion into adjacent markets, including software security and quality solutions. Although we believe these solutions are complementary to our EDA tools, we have less experience and a more limited operating history in offering software quality, testing, and security products and services, and our efforts in this area may not be successful. Our success in these new markets depends on a variety of factors, including the following: Our ability to attract a new customer base, including in industries in which we have less experience; Our successful development of new sales and marketing strategies to meet customer requirements; Our ability to accurately predict, prepare for, and promptly respond to technological developments in new fields, including, in the case of our software quality, testing, and security tools and services, identifying new security vulnerabilities in software code and ensuring support for a growing number of programming languages; Our ability to compete with new and existing competitors in these new industries, many of which may have more financial resources, industry experience, brand recognition, relevant intellectual property rights, or established customer relationships than we currently do, and could include free and open source solutions that provide similar software quality, testing, and security tools without fees; Our ability to skillfully balance our investment in adjacent markets with investment in our existing products and services; Our ability to attract and retain employees with expertise in new fields; Our ability to sell and support consulting services at profitable margins; and Our ability to manage our revenue model in connection with hybrid sales of licensed products and consulting services. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We devote substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry or by competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue. Our hardware products, which primarily consist of prototyping and emulation systems, subject us to distinct risks. The growth in sales of our hardware products subjects us to several risks, including: Increased dependence on a sole supplier for certain hardware components, which may reduce our control over product quality and pricing and may lead to delays in production and delivery of our hardware products, should our supplier fail to deliver sufficient quantities of acceptable components in a timely fashion; Increasingly variable revenue and decreasingly accurate revenue forecasts, due to fluctuations in hardware revenue, which is recognized upfront upon shipment, as opposed to most sales of software products for which revenue is recognized over time; Overall reductions in margins, as the gross margin for our hardware products is typically lower than those of our software products; Longer sales cycles, which create risks of insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory and variations in inventory valuation, which can adversely affect our operating results; Decreases or delays in customer purchases in favor of next-generation releases, which may lead to excess or obsolete inventory or require us to discount our older hardware products; and Longer warranty periods than those of our software products, which may require us to replace hardware components under warranty, thus increasing our costs. 19 Table of Contents Changes in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) could adversely affect our financial results and may require significant changes to our internal accounting systems and processes. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. The FASB periodically issues new accounting standards on a variety of topics, including, for example, revenue recognition and accounting for leases. For information regarding new accounting standards, please refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements." These and other such standards generally result in different accounting principles, which may significantly impact our reported results or could result in variability of our financial results. For example, the recent new revenue recognition standard will be applicable to us beginning in fiscal 2019 and could lead to increased volatility in our total revenue, as some of our revenue may be recognized in different periods and with less predictability than is the case under current accounting standards. Our results could be adversely affected by a change in our effective tax rate as a result of tax law changes and related new or revised guidance and regulations, changes in our geographical earnings mix, unfavorable government reviews of our tax returns, material differences between our forecasted and actual annual effective tax rates, future changes to our tax structure, or by evolving enforcement practices. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions, with a significant amount of our foreign earnings generated by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Hungary. Because we have a wide range of statutory tax rates in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, any changes in our geographical earnings mix, including those resulting from our intercompany transfer pricing or from changes in the rules governing transfer pricing, could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, a change in the tax law of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense and impact our financial position and cash flows. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), which significantly changed prior U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business in the current year and future years. Accounting for certain of these provisions requires the exercise of significant judgment. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Tax Act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may materially differ from previous estimates, and those differences may materially affect our financial position. In addition, the Tax Act includes certain new provisions that will affect our income from foreign operations beginning in fiscal 2019, as well as a lower corporate tax rate on income from domestic operations. Because guidance continues to evolve, however, the net impact of these changes is uncertain, and while we believe such changes will have an overall favorable impact on our effective tax rate, certain interpretations of the international provisions of the Tax Act could adversely affect our tax rate and cash flow in future years. In fiscal 2018, we incurred foreign taxes of $67.7 million as a result of reorganizing certain rights related to use of our intellectual property in our international business. Such tax was recorded as a prepaid tax on our balance sheet, in accordance with current accounting rules. The amount of tax is subject to audit by the Hungarian Tax Authority (HTA) and could increase, along with the imposition of penalties and interest, and could materially affect our financial results and cash flow. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which represents a coalition of member countries. On October 5, 2015, the OECD issued a series of reports recommending changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. Many of these recommendations are being adopted by various countries in which we do business and may increase our taxes in these countries. Changes to these and other areas in relation to international tax reform, including future actions taken by foreign governments in response to the Tax Act, could increase uncertainty and may adversely affect our tax rate and cash flow in future years. Our income and non-income tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We are currently under examination by the tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is 20 Table of Contents uncertain. For example, we may be liable for additional withholding tax on payments made to us by customers in certain jurisdictions, and we may also be liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire, including future taxes payable related to the transition tax on earnings from their foreign operations, if any, under the Tax Act. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the periods for which that determination is made. In July 2017, the HTA issued a final assessment against our Hungarian subsidiary (Synopsys Hungary) for fiscal years 2011 through 2013. The HTA has disallowed Synopsys Hungary's tax positions taken during those years regarding the timing of the deduction of research expenses and applied withholding taxes on certain payments made to affiliates, resulting in an aggregate tax assessment of approximately $44.5 million and interest and penalties of $18.0 million. We paid the tax assessments, penalties and interest in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as required by law and recorded these amounts as prepaid taxes on our balance sheet. We continue to appeal the assessment through the Hungarian Administrative Court. If the assessment is ultimately canceled, the Hungarian statutory accounting treatment could have an indirect adverse impact on certain tax benefits in the year of the cancellation. For further discussion of the Hungary audit, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Non-US Examinations." We maintain significant deferred tax assets related to certain tax credits. Our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdiction and in the case of foreign tax credits, how such credits are treated under provisions of the Tax Act. Changes in our forecasts of future income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings that could materially affect our financial results. Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. As of October 31, 2018 , approximately 75% of our worldwide cash and cash equivalents balance is held by our international subsidiaries. We intend to meet our U.S. cash spending needs, including the Tax Act provisional transition tax, primarily through our existing U.S. cash balances, ongoing U.S. cash flows, and available credit under our term loan and revolving credit facilities. Should our cash spending needs in the U.S. rise and exceed these liquidity sources, we may be required to incur additional debt at higher than anticipated interest rates or access other funding sources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, capital structure or the market price of our common stock. From time to time we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. We are from time to time subject to claims alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products infringe a third partys intellectual property rights. Infringement claims can result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. For example, we were engaged in complex patent litigation with Mentor Graphics Corporation (Mentor) involving several actions in different forums. In June 2018, we settled all outstanding patent litigation with Mentor for a $65.0 million payment made in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to Siemens, which previously acquired Mentor in March 2017. Further information regarding the lawsuits and settlement are contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading Legal Proceedings. In conjunction with the settlement, we also amended an existing interoperability agreement with Mentor to collaborate on a wide range of EDA products. The amendment includes a one-time termination charge between $0.0 and $25.0 million, payable to Mentor under certain conditions. In the event such conditions are met, the termination charge could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 21 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, employment, customer, supplier, competition, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Further information regarding certain of these matters is contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings . Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released, or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors, including those resulting from third-party suppliers, could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, allegations of manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. We license third-party software and other intellectual property for use in product research and development and, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. We also license third-party software, including the software of our competitors, to test the interoperability of our products with other industry products and in connection with our professional services. These licenses may need to be renegotiated or renewed from time to time, or we may need to obtain new licenses in the future. Third parties may stop adequately supporting or maintaining their technology, or they or their technology may be acquired by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain licenses to these third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to sell the affected products, our customers use of the products may be interrupted, or our product development processes and professional services offerings may be disrupted, which could in turn harm our financial results, our customers, and our reputation. The inclusion of third-party intellectual property in our products can also subject us and our customers to infringement claims. Although we seek to mitigate this risk contractually, we may not be able to sufficiently limit our potential liability. Regardless of outcome, infringement claims may require us to use significant resources and may divert management's attention. Some of our products and technology, including those we acquire, may include software licensed under open source licenses. Some open source licenses could require us, under certain circumstances, to make available or grant licenses to any modifications or derivative works we create based on the open source software. Although we have tools and processes to monitor and restrict our use of open source software, the risks associated with open source usage may not be eliminated and may, if not properly addressed, result in unanticipated obligations that harm our business. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to timely recruit and retain senior management and key employees, our business may be harmed. We depend in large part upon the services of key members of our senior management team to drive our future success. If we were to lose the services of any member of our senior management team, our business could be adversely affected. To be successful, we must also attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join us in connection with acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense and has increased. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. Any failure to recruit and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, efforts to recruit and retain qualified employees could be costly and negatively impact our operating expenses. We issue equity awards from employee equity plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure to limit the use of such equity-based compensation due to its dilutive effect on stockholders. If we are unable to grant attractive equity-based packages in the future, it could limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market, and the FASB. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and other regulations, including "conflict minerals" regulations affecting our hardware products, have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls and compliance programs. Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Moreover, although we have implemented compliance programs and compliance training for employees, such measures may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from breaching or circumventing our policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. Failure of our control systems and compliance programs to prevent error, fraud or violations of law could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by any deterioration of capital markets. From time to time, our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio consists of investment-grade U.S. government agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds, municipal securities and other securities, and bank deposits. Our investment portfolio carries both interest rate risk and credit risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a credit downgrade or a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall or a credit downgrade occurs. As a result of capital pressures on certain banks, especially in Europe, and the continuing low interest rate environment, some of our financial instruments may become impaired. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of investments held by us is judged to be other-than-temporary. In addition, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in the issuers credit quality or changes in interest rates. In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. 23 Table of Contents We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets, the recognition of revenue and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee-related liabilities, including commissions and variable compensation, and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, allowances for doubtful accounts, and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Due to the global nature of our business, our operating results may be negatively impacted by catastrophic events throughout the world. We rely on a global network of infrastructure applications, enterprise applications and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cybersecurity attack, terrorist attack, epidemic, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers orders. Moreover, our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our principal offices are located in two adjacent buildings in Mountain View, California, which together provide approximately 341,000 square feet of available space. This space is leased through August 2030, and we have two options to extend the lease term, the first to extend the term by ten years, followed by a second option to extend by approximately nine additional years. We also lease approximately 238,000 square feet of space in three separate buildings in Sunnyvale, California, with lease expiration dates ranging from September 2019 to October 2019. We are in the process of consolidating the space in these three separate buildings into a single location in Sunnyvale, California in 2019. We own one building in Sunnyvale, California with approximately 120,000 square feet of space. These buildings in Mountain View and Sunnyvale are used for research and development, sales and support, marketing, and administrative activities. We currently lease 33 other offices throughout the United States, and own 2 office buildings in Oregon, one of which is leased to a tenant. These offices are used primarily for sales and support activities as well as research and development. International Facilities We lease additional space for sales, service, and research and development activities in approximately 29 countries throughout the world, including 25,000 square feet in Dublin, Ireland for our international headquarters, as well as significant sites in Yerevan, Armenia, Bangalore, India, Shanghai and Wuhan, China. In addition, we own two buildings in Hsinchu, Taiwan with approximately 212,000 square feet of combined space. We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased properties, are in good condition and suitable for the current conduct of our business. 24 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to routine legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. The ultimate outcome of any litigation is often uncertain and unfavorable outcomes could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on Synopsys because of the defense costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. We regularly review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount is estimable, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and as circumstances change, it is possible that the amount of any accrued liability may increase, decrease, or be eliminated. Mentor Patent Litigation Prior to the legal settlement as further described below, we were engaged in complex patent litigation with Mentor Graphics Corporation (Mentor) involving several actions in different forums. We succeeded to the litigation when we acquired Emulation & Verification Engineering S.A. on October 4, 2012. Legal Settlement In March 2017, Siemens PLM Software (Siemens) acquired Mentor. On June 29, 2018, Synopsys, Siemens and Mentor settled all outstanding patent litigation between Synopsys and Mentor for a $65.0 million payment made in the third quarter from Synopsys to Mentor. Synopsys had previously accrued $39.0 million and recorded the remaining $26.0 million as an expense in the quarter ended July 31, 2018. As a result of the settlement, the litigation with Mentor was dismissed and the injunction entered in connection with that litigation was vacated. The settlement included mutual seven-year patent cross-licenses between Synopsys and Siemens, and between Synopsys and Mentor. Synopsys and Mentor also amended an existing interoperability agreement to collaborate on a wide range of EDA products for the benefit of their mutual customers. The amendment includes a one-time termination charge between $0.0 and $25.0 million, payable to Mentor under certain conditions. Other Proceedings In July 2017, the Hungarian Tax Authority (HTA) issued a final assessment against Synopsys' Hungarian subsidiary (Synopsys Hungary) for fiscal years 2011 through 2013. The HTA has disallowed Synopsys Hungary's tax positions taken during these years regarding the timing of the deduction of research expenses and applied withholding taxes on certain payments made to affiliates, resulting in an aggregate tax assessment of approximately $44.5 million and interest and penalties of $18.0 million. On August 2, 2017, Synopsys Hungary filed a claim contesting the final assessment with the Hungarian Administrative Court. On November 16, 2017, Synopsys Hungary paid the assessment as required by law, while continuing its challenge to the assessment in court. Hearings were held in February and July 2018, and Synopsys expects further hearings to be scheduled after the courts expert submits an opinion relevant to the withholding tax issue in January 2019. On December 10, 2018, Synopsys withdrew its claim contesting the final assessment with regard to the timing of the deduction of research expenses. For further discussion of the Hungary audit, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Non-US Examinations." Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol SNPS. As of December 12 , 2018, we had 278 stockholders of record. Performance Graph The following graph compares the five-year total return to stockholders of our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Synopsys common stock on October 31, 2013 (the last trading day before the beginning of our fifth preceding fiscal year) and in each of the indexes on October 31, 2013 (the closest month end) and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends were declared on our common stock during such time. The comparisons in the table are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* *$100 invested on October 31, 2013 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 26 Table of Contents The information presented above in the stock performance graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, except to the extent that we subsequently specifically request that such information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or Exchange Act. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors (Board) previously approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we were authorized to purchase up to $500.0 million of our common stock, and has periodically replenished the stock repurchase program to such amount. Our Board replenished the stock repurchase program up to $500.0 million on April 5, 2018. The program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the program may be suspended or terminated at any time by our Chief Financial Officer or our Board. We repurchase shares to offset dilution caused by ongoing stock issuances from existing equity plans for equity compensation awards and issuances related to acquisitions, and when management believes it is a good use of cash. Repurchases are transacted in accordance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) and may be made through any means including, but not limited to, open market purchases, plans executed under Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and structured transactions. As of October 31, 2018 , $325.0 million remained available for further repurchases under the program. In September 2017, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the September 2017 ASR) to repurchase an aggregate of $100.0 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the September 2017 ASR, we made a prepayment of $100.0 million and received initial share deliveries valued at $80.0 million . The remaining balance of $20.0 million was settled in November 2017. Total shares repurchased under the September 2017 ASR were approximately 1.2 million shares, at an average purchase price of $83.80 per share. In December 2017, we entered into two simultaneous accelerated share repurchase agreements (the December 2017 ASRs) to repurchase an aggregate of $200.0 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the December 2017 ASRs, we made a prepayment of $200.0 million and received initial share deliveries of shares valued at $160.0 million. In February 2018, we received additional deliveries of shares valued at $20.0 million for one of the two December 2017 ASRs. The remaining balance of $20.0 million was settled in March 2018. Total shares repurchased under the December 2017 ASRs were approximately 2.3 million shares, at an average purchase price of $87.08 per share. In May 2018, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the May 2018 ASR) to repurchase an aggregate of $165.0 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the May 2018 ASR, we made a prepayment of $165.0 million and received initial share deliveries valued at $132.0 million. The remaining balance of $33.0 million was settled in October 2018. Total shares repurchased under the May 2018 ASR were approximately 1.8 million shares, at an average purchase price of $92.42 per share. The table below sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended October 31, 2018 : Period Total number of shares purchased (1) Average price paid per share (1) Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs Maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the programs Month #1 August 5, 2018 through September 8, 2018 $ $ 325,000,050 Month #2 September 9, 2018 through October 6, 2018 $ $ 325,000,050 Month #3 October 7, 2018 through November 3, 2018 276,755 $ 119.24 276,755 $ 325,000,050 Total 276,755 $ 119.24 276,755 $ 325,000,050 (1) Amounts are calculated based on the trade date. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our stock repurchase program. 27 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Fiscal Year Ended October 31,(1) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenue $ 3,121,058 $ 2,724,880 $ 2,422,532 $ 2,242,211 $ 2,057,472 Income before provisions for income taxes 363,543 383,098 329,548 281,610 272,142 Provision (benefit) for income taxes(2) (68,975 ) 246,535 62,722 55,676 13,018 Net income 432,518 136,563 266,826 225,934 259,124 Net income per share: Basic 2.90 0.91 1.76 1.46 1.67 Diluted 2.82 0.88 1.73 1.43 1.64 Working capital (deficit)(3) (558,618 ) 68,484 1,992 (109,546 ) 6,527 Total assets 6,145,974 5,396,414 5,240,365 5,045,739 4,775,499 Long-term debt 125,535 134,063 45,000 Stockholders equity 3,485,015 3,279,724 3,195,146 3,133,989 3,056,170 (1) Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. Fiscal 2018 was a 53-week year and ended on November 3, 2018. Fiscal 2017 , 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 were 52-week years ending on October 28, 2017, October 29, 2016, October 31, 2015, and November 1, 2014, respectively. (2) Includes $14.7 million , $7.1 million , $16.5 million , $6.3 million , and $19.6 million in net tax benefits from tax settlements received in fiscal years 2018 , 2017 , 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. Fiscal 2018 additionally includes a $57.8 million net benefit from tax reform and tax restructuring. Fiscal 2017 additionally includes a $166.2 million expense from our repatriation of foreign earnings. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (3) Includes reclassifications of deferred tax assets and liabilities for fiscal years 2014 through 2015 related to ASU 2015-17 Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations is qualified in its entirety by the more complete discussion contained in this Item 7 and by the risk factors set forth in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Please also see the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Summary Synopsys, Inc. provides products and services used by designers across the entire silicon to software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. We 28 Table of Contents are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the security and quality of software code in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, media, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. Our EDA and IP customers are generally semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our solutions help these companies overcome the challenges of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while also helping them reduce their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, their research and development budget and spending decisions may be affected by their business outlook and willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. In addition, a number of consolidations have taken place in the semiconductor industry over the past several years. While we do not believe customer consolidations have had a material impact on our results, the future impact of ongoing consolidation is uncertain. For a discussion of potential risks, please see the risk factor titled Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors . Despite global economic uncertainty, we have consistently grown our revenue since 2005. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, but also because of our time-based revenue business model. Under this model, a substantial majority of our customers pay over time and we typically recognize this revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Time-based revenue consists of time-based products, maintenance and service revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. Due to our business model, decreases or increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on building on our leadership in our EDA products, expanding and proliferating our IP offerings, and driving growth in the software security and quality market. As we continue to expand our product portfolio and our total addressable market, for instance in the software security and quality space, and as hardware product sales grow, we expect to experience increased variability in our total revenue. In addition, due to our adoption of Topic 606 in fiscal 2019, as further described in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the way in which we are required to account for certain types of arrangements will increase the variability in our total revenue from period to period. Nevertheless, this accounting impact will not affect our cash generation or change the way we operate our business. Based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy, we believe that we will continue to execute our strategies successfully. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. Fiscal 2018 was a 53-week year and ended on November 3, 2018 . Fiscal 2017 and 2016 were 52-week years ending on October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016 , respectively. Fiscal 2019 will be a 52-week year. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-K refers to the closest calendar month end. Fiscal 2018 Financial Performance Summary In fiscal 2018 , compared to fiscal 2017 , our financial performance reflects the following: Revenues were $3.1 billion , an increase of $396.2 million or 15% , primarily driven by the overall growth in our business mainly due to higher TSL revenue, acquisitions, and professional services revenue. The increase also included additional revenue of approximately $46.0 million due to the extra week in fiscal 2018; Total cost of revenue and operating expenses were $2.8 billion , an increase of $383.5 million or 16% , primarily due to increases in headcount, including those from acquisitions. The increase also included one additional week of expenses of approximately $33.7 million; Higher operating income of $360.2 million , an increase of $12.7 million or 4% ; and Benefit for income taxes of $69.0 million in fiscal 2018 compared to provision for income taxes of $246.5 million in fiscal 2017, primarily due to the expense recorded for repatriation in fiscal 2017, 29 Table of Contents compared to the benefit recorded for restructuring of foreign IP rights, and a decrease in the statutory federal corporate income tax rate in fiscal 2018. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under Results of Operations below are based on our audited results of operations, which we have prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. For further information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; Valuation of business combinations; and Income taxes. Revenue Recognition We generate our revenue from the sale of products that include software licenses and to a lesser extent, hardware products, maintenance and services. Time-based products revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual licenses and hardware products, and professional services fees. Upfront products revenue includes hardware revenue consisting of sales of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)-based emulation and prototyping products and perpetual software licenses. Most of our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, bundled with post-contract customer support and additional meaningful rights that provide a complete end-to-end solution to the customer. Throughout the contract, our customers are typically using a myriad of products to complete each phase of a chip design and are concurrently working on multiple chip designs, or projects, in different phases of the design. During this time, the customer looks to us to release state-of-the-art technology as we keep up with the pace of change, to address requested enhancements to our tools to meet customer specifications, to provide support at each stage of the customers design, including the final manufacturing of the chip (the tape-out stage), and other important services. With respect to software licenses, we primarily utilize two license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs). TSLs are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer with limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. The majority of our arrangements are TSLs due to the nature of the business and customer requirements. In addition to the licenses, the arrangements also include: post-contract customer support, which includes providing frequent updates and upgrades to maintain the utility of the software due to rapid changes in technology; other intertwined services such as multiple copies of the tools; assistance to our customers in applying our technology in their development environment; and rights to remix licenses for other licenses. Perpetual licenses. Perpetual licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the two software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based products revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of 30 Table of Contents the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront products revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based products revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Our maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual licenses and hardware products, and professional services fees. We recognize revenue from maintenance arrangements ratably over the maintenance period to the extent cash has been received or fees become due and payable, and recognize revenue from professional services and training fees as such services are performed and accepted by the customers as needed. Revenue attributable to maintenance, professional services and training is reported as maintenance and service revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Hardware revenue consists of sales of FPGA-based emulation and prototyping products. We recognize revenue from sales of hardware products in full upon shipment if all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these sales is reported as upfront products revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. We also enter into arrangements in which portions of revenue are contingent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, such as royalty arrangements. We refer to this revenue as contingent revenue. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the event that removes the contingency occurs. Such revenue is reported as time-based products revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. These arrangements are not material to our total revenue. We infrequently enter into multiple-element arrangements that contain both software and non-software deliverables such as hardware. We have determined that the software and non-software deliverables in our contracts are separate units of accounting. We recognize revenue for the separate units of accounting when all revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue allocated to hardware units of accounting is recognized upon shipment when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue allocated to software units of accounting is recognized depending on the software license type (TSL or perpetual license). Such arrangements have not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements and are not expected to have a material effect in future periods. We also enter into arrangements to deliver software products, either alone or together with other products or services, that require significant modification or customization of the software. We account for such arrangements using the percentage of completion method as we have the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates that relate to the extent of progress toward completion, contract revenues and costs. We measure the progress towards completion using the labor hours incurred to complete the project. Revenue attributable to these arrangements is reported as "maintenance and service revenue" in the consolidated statements of operations. We determine the fair value of each element in multiple element software arrangements that only contain software and software-related deliverables based on vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). We limit our assessment of VSOE of fair value for each element to the price charged when such element is sold separately. We have analyzed all of the elements included in our multiple-element software arrangements and have determined that we have sufficient VSOE to allocate revenue to the maintenance components of our perpetual license products and to professional services. Accordingly, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, we recognize license revenue from perpetual licenses upon delivery using the residual method, recognize revenue from maintenance ratably over the maintenance term, and recognize revenue from professional services as services are performed and accepted by the customer. With respect to TSL arrangements, due to the complexity of the tools, the complexity of the arrangement terms and intertwined services, the license, maintenance and other services are not separable and are considered as a combined unit. Additionally, we do not have sufficient VSOE of fair value to allocate the fee between these services. Therefore, we recognize revenue from TSLs ratably over the term of the license, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue recognition involves certain judgments. Specifically, in connection with each transaction involving our products, we must evaluate whether: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery of software or services has occurred, (3) the fee for such software or services is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability of the full license or service fee is probable. All four of these criteria must be met in order for us to recognize revenue with respect to a particular arrangement. We apply these revenue recognition criteria as follows: Persuasive Evidence of an Arrangement Exists. Prior to recognizing revenue on an arrangement, our customary policy is to have a written contract, signed by both the customer and by us, or a 31 Table of Contents purchase order from those customers that have previously negotiated a standard end-user license arrangement or purchase agreement. Delivery Has Occurred. We deliver our products to our customers electronically or physically. For electronic deliveries, delivery occurs when we provide access to our customers to take immediate possession of the software through downloading it to the customers hardware. For physical deliveries, the standard transfer terms are typically Freight on Board (FOB) shipping point. We generally ship our products or license keys promptly after acceptance of customer orders. However, a number of factors can affect the timing of product shipments and, as a result, timing of revenue recognition, including the delivery dates requested by customers and our operational capacity to fulfill product orders at the end of a fiscal quarter. The Fee Is Fixed or Determinable. Our determination that an arrangement fee is fixed or determinable depends principally on the arrangements payment terms. Our standard payment terms for perpetual licenses require 75% or more of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee to be paid within one year. If the arrangement includes these terms, we regard the fee as fixed or determinable, and recognize all license revenue under the arrangement in full upon delivery (assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met). If the arrangement does not include these terms, we do not consider the fee to be fixed or determinable and generally recognize revenue when customer installments are due and payable. In the case of a TSL, because of the right to exchange products or receive unspecified future technology and because VSOE for maintenance services does not exist for a TSL, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license, but not in advance of when customers installments become due and payable. Collectability Is Probable. We judge collectability of the arrangement fees on a customer-by-customer basis pursuant to our credit review policy. We typically sell to customers with whom we have a history of successful collection. For a new customer, or when an existing customer substantially expands its commitments, we evaluate the customers financial position and ability to pay and typically assign a credit limit based on that review. We increase the credit limit only after we have established a successful collection history with the customer. If we determine at any time that collectability is not probable under a particular arrangement based upon our credit review process or the customers payment history, we recognize revenue under that arrangement as customer payments are actually received. Valuation of Business Combinations We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to tangible assets, liabilities including contingencies assumed, and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Any excess fair value of purchase consideration over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase consideration requires management to make estimates and assumptions, based in part on our judgments, in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to intangible assets. Our estimates and assumptions may include, but are not limited to, future cash flows of an acquired business, other assumptions and the appropriate discount rate. These estimates are inherently difficult, subjective and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used, the fair value allocation to the acquired intangible assets could be different. Therefore, our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these assets can have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 32 Table of Contents Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse, and for tax loss and credit carryovers. Determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary to reduce deferred tax assets require assumptions, judgments, and estimates. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In evaluating our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, our forecast of future taxable income on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, as well as feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. In fiscal 2018, we also considered the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. We believe that the net deferred tax assets of approximately $397.4 million, which are recorded on our balance sheet as of October 31, 2018, based on current tax law, will ultimately be realized. However, if we determine in the future that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to realize a portion or the full amount of deferred tax assets, we would record an adjustment to the deferred tax asset or a valuation allowance as a charge to earnings in the period that such determination is made. Uncertain tax positions are recorded by applying a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. An uncertain tax position is considered effectively settled on completion of an examination by a taxing authority if certain other conditions are satisfied. Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of products that include software licenses, maintenance and services, and to a lesser extent, hardware products. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is delivered. The weighted-average term of the TSLs is typically three years, but varies from quarter to quarter due to the nature and timing of the arrangements entered into during the quarter. The weighted-average term of the TSLs we entered into in fiscal 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 was 2.7 years, 2.7 years and 3.0 years, respectively. Revenue on contracts requiring significant modification or development is accounted for using the percentage of completion method over the period of modification or development. Revenue on hardware product orders is generally recognized in full at the time the product is shipped and when title is transferred. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the event that removes the contingency occurs. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). Revenue on professional services orders is generally recognized as the services are performed. Infrequently, we enter into certain license arrangements wherein licenses are provided for a finite term without any other services or rights, including rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We recognize revenue from these term licenses in full upon shipment of the software and when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. 33 Table of Contents Our revenue in any period is equal to the sum of our time-based products, upfront products, and maintenance and services revenues for the period. We derive time-based products revenue largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent from contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and from contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront products revenue directly from perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the period. We derive maintenance revenue largely from maintenance orders received in prior periods since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional services revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services as those services are delivered and accepted or on percentage of completion for arrangements requiring significant modification of our software, and not when they are booked. Our revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL delivered on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the 12 succeeding quarters. Conversely, a $120,000 order for perpetual licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is delivered, but no future revenue. Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees and 100% of the maintenance fees are payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Most of our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) $ 3,121.1 $ 2,724.9 $ 2,422.5 $ 396.2 15 % $ 302.4 12 % The overall growth of our business, including contributions from acquisitions, has been the primary driver of the increase in our revenue. Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements, including payment terms and the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience variability in our revenue due to factors such as the timing of IP consulting projects, royalties, and variability in hardware sales, and due to certain contracts where revenue is recognized when customer installment payments are due. As revenue from hardware sales is recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such hardware may result in increased variability of our total revenue. The increase in total revenue for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to the overall growth of our business, mainly due to higher TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods, an increase in professional services, additional revenue of approximately $46.0 million due to an extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017, and contributions from acquired companies. The increase in total revenue for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to the overall growth of our business mainly due to higher TSL revenues, hardware sales, and IP consulting projects and, to a lesser extent, due to revenue from acquired companies. For a discussion of revenue by geographic areas, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . 34 Table of Contents Time-Based Products Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) $ 2,303.3 $ 2,021.8 $ 1,910.9 $ 281.5 14 % $ 110.9 6 % Percentage of total revenue 74 % 74 % 79 % The increase in time-based products revenue for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue due to arrangements booked in prior periods, including contributions from acquired companies, and additional revenue due to an extra week in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. The increase in time-based products revenue for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue due to arrangements booked in prior periods. Upfront Products Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) $ 357.7 $ 338.2 $ 248.1 $ 19.5 6 % $ 90.1 36 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 12 % 10 % Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The increase in upfront products revenue for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in the sale of IP products driven by higher demand from customers. The increase in upfront products revenue for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to an increase in the sale of hardware products driven by timing of customer requirements. Upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate modestly based on the timing of IP products and hardware sales. Such fluctuations will continue to be impacted by the timing of shipments due to customer requirements. Maintenance and Service Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) Maintenance revenue $ 100.4 $ 84.1 $ 74.4 $ 16.3 19 % $ 9.7 13 % Professional service and other revenue 359.6 280.8 189.1 78.8 28 % 91.7 48 % Total $ 460.0 $ 364.9 $ 263.5 $ 95.1 26 % $ 101.4 38 % Percentage of total revenue 15 % 14 % 11 % The increase in maintenance revenue for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 , and for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016, was primarily due to an increase in the volume of arrangements that include maintenance. The increase in professional services and other revenue for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase in consulting projects, including contributions from acquisitions, and to a lesser extent, the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2018. The increase in professional services and other revenue for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase in, and the timing of, IP consulting projects that are accounted for using the percentage of completion method and contributions from acquisitions. 35 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) Cost of revenue $ 735.9 $ 654.2 $ 543.0 $ 81.7 12 % $ 111.2 20 % Operating expenses 2,024.9 1,723.1 1,562.2 301.8 18 % 160.9 10 % Total $ 2,760.8 $ 2,377.3 $ 2,105.2 $ 383.5 16 % $ 272.1 13 % Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue 88 % 87 % 87 % Our expenses are generally impacted by changes in personnel-related costs including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and variable compensation; changes in amortization; and changes in selling and marketing expenses. The increase in our expenses compared to prior fiscal years was primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs, driven by increased headcount from our overall growth, including those from acquisitions, and related fixed charges including facilities, as well as higher product costs due to increased hardware sales. We allocate certain human resource programs, information technology and facility expenses among our functional income statement categories based on headcount within each functional area. Annually, or upon a significant change in headcount (such as a workforce reduction, realignment or acquisition) or other factors, management reviews the allocation methodology and expenses included in the allocation pool. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, did not have a significant impact on expenses during fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 , or fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 . See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our foreign exchange hedging programs. Cost of Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) Cost of products revenue $ 448.4 $ 413.2 $ 346.9 $ 35.2 9 % $ 66.3 19 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 203.5 164.9 94.0 38.6 23 % 70.9 75 % Amortization of intangible assets 84.0 76.1 102.1 7.9 10 % (26.0 ) (25 )% Total $ 735.9 $ 654.2 $ 543.0 $ 81.7 12 % $ 111.2 20 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 24 % 22 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of products revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of products revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on products and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that had reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and costs to deliver our consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. We expect our cost of maintenance and service revenue to increase in future periods because of recent acquisitions, but we do not expect the impact to be material to our total cost of revenue. 36 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete related to acquisitions and certain contract rights related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase of $47.7 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions, an increase of $11.3 million in costs related to servicing IP consulting arrangements, and an increase of $7.9 million in amortization of intangible assets, as well as one additional week of expenses of approximately $4.5 million. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase of $62.4 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions, an increase of $37.5 million in hardware product costs due to increases in, and timing of, shipments, an increase of $24.8 million in costs related to servicing IP consulting arrangements, and functionally allocated expenses that were higher by $8.6 million. The increases were partially offset by decreases of $26.0 million in amortization of intangible assets. Changes in other cost of revenue categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Operating Expenses Research and Development Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) $ 1,084.8 $ 908.8 $ 856.7 $ 176.0 19 % $ 52.1 6 % Percentage of total revenue 35 % 33 % 35 % The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase of $114.4 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions, and one additional week of expenses of approximately $19.3 million. The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase of $47.4 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions. Changes in other research and development expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Sales and Marketing Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) $ 623.0 $ 549.2 $ 502.4 $ 73.8 13 % $ 46.8 9 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 20 % 21 % The increase in sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase of $51.0 million in personnel costs as a result of headcount increases, an increase of $7.5 million due to timing of marketing events, and one additional week of expenses of approximately $5.8 million. The increase in sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to an increase of $40.8 million in personnel costs as a result of higher headcount and higher variable compensation primarily based on timing of shipments. Changes in other sales and marketing expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. 37 Table of Contents General and Administrative Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) $ 262.6 $ 196.8 $ 166.0 $ 65.8 33 % $ 30.8 19 % Percentage of total revenue 8 % 7 % 7 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase of $21.5 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, an increase of $22.1 million in professional service costs primarily due to additional legal, accounting, and tax services related to various projects, an increase of $18.2 million in net litigation settlement costs primarily due to a $26.0 million litigation settlement recorded in fiscal 2018 compared with $7.6 million net litigation charges recorded in fiscal 2017, an increase of $11.0 million in facilities expenses, and one additional week of expenses of approximately $4.1 million. The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase of $38.0 million for accrued loss contingencies as a result of litigation, an increase of $18.8 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, and an increase of $5.5 million in facilities expenses, partially offset by a $30.4 million gain as a result of a legal settlement. Changes in other general and administrative expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Change in Fair Value of Deferred Compensation The income or loss arising from the change in fair value of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan obligation is recorded in cost of sales and each functional operating expense, with the offsetting change in the fair value of the related assets recorded in other income (expense), net. These assets are classified as trading securities. There is no overall impact to our net income from the income or loss of our deferred compensation plan obligation and asset. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization of contract rights and the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, and in-process research and development related to acquisitions completed in prior years. Amortization expense is included in the consolidated statements of operations as follows: Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) Included in cost of revenue $ 84.0 $ 76.1 $ 102.1 $ 7.9 10 % $ (26.0 ) (25 )% Included in operating expenses 41.6 31.6 27.5 10.0 32 % 4.1 15 % Total $ 125.6 $ 107.7 $ 129.6 $ 17.9 17 % $ (21.9 ) (17 )% Percentage of total revenue 4 % 4 % 5 % The increase in amortization of intangible assets for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the additions of acquired intangible assets, partially offset by certain intangible assets being fully amortized. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to intangible assets that were fully amortized, partially offset by additions of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring Charges During fiscal 2018, we recorded $12.9 million of restructuring charges as part of a business realignment. The restructuring actions were undertaken to position us for future growth, reallocate resources to priority areas and, to a lesser extent, eliminate operational redundancy. These charges consisted primarily of severance and benefits. The remaining balance of $8.1 million is expected to be paid in fiscal 2019. 38 Table of Contents During fiscal 2017, we recorded $36.6 million of restructuring charges for severance and benefits due to involuntary and voluntary employee termination actions. The restructuring actions were undertaken to position us for future growth, reallocate resources to priority areas and, to a lesser extent, eliminate operational redundancy. These charges consisted primarily of severance and retirement benefits. As of the end of fiscal 2018, there were no unpaid balances remaining of the 2017 restructuring charges. During fiscal 2016, we recorded $9.6 million of restructuring charges for severance and benefits due to involuntary employee terminations, which was fully paid in fiscal 2017. The following is a summary of our restructuring activities: Fiscal Year Balance at Beginning of Period Costs Incurred (Reduced) Cash Payments Others Balance at End of Period (in millions) 2018 $ 17.5 $ 12.9 $ (22.1 ) $ (0.2 ) $ 8.1 2017 $ 5.7 $ 36.6 $ (24.8 ) $ $ 17.5 2016 $ $ 9.6 $ (3.9 ) $ $ 5.7 See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) Interest income $ 5.3 $ 7.2 $ 3.7 $ (1.9 ) (26 )% $ 3.5 95 % Interest expense (15.6 ) (7.3 ) (3.8 ) (8.3 ) 114 % (3.5 ) 92 % Gain (loss) on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan 4.6 29.6 4.4 (25.0 ) (84 )% 25.2 573 % Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 3.6 3.4 0.2 0.2 6 % 3.2 1,600 % Other, net 5.4 2.6 7.7 2.8 108 % (5.1 ) (66 )% Total $ 3.3 $ 35.5 $ 12.2 $ (32.2 ) (91 )% $ 23.3 191 % The net decrease in other income (expense) in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily due to lower gains in the market value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets and higher interest expense due to a higher debt balance. The net increase in other income (expense) in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to higher gains in the market value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Income Taxes The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), enacted on December 22, 2017, lowered the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018. Because our fiscal 2018 commenced on November 1, 2017, the annual statutory federal corporate tax rate applicable to fiscal 2018 is a blended rate of 23.4%. Beginning in fiscal 2019, our annual statutory federal corporate tax rate will be 21%. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was (19.0%), which included a tax benefit of $172.0 million relating to the restructuring of our foreign intellectual property rights, a U.S. federal research tax credit of $35.1 million, a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of $21.8 million tax benefit for fiscal 2017, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $31.0 million. These benefits were partially offset by tax expense of $63.1 million for a one-time transition tax on foreign earnings, $51.1 million due to re-measurement of U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act, and tax expense related to the integration of acquired technologies of $27.9 million. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 was 64.4%, which included income tax expense of $166.2 million relating to a repatriation of foreign earnings of $825 million, $30.5 million due to an increase in valuation allowance on state 39 Table of Contents deferred tax assets, a settlement with the Korean National Tax Service for the audit of fiscal years 2012 to 2016 of $7.9 million, and tax expense related to the integration of acquired technologies of $36.4 million. These expenses were partially offset by excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $38.1 million, a U.S. federal research tax credit of $25.5 million, and a settlement with the Taiwanese tax authorities for fiscal 2014 of $10.9 million. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 was 19.0%, which included tax benefits from a settlement with the IRS of $20.7 million for fiscal 2015 and the permanent reinstatement of the U.S. federal research tax credit of approximately $37.1 million, partially offset by tax expense from the integration of acquired technologies of $37.5 million, the impact of undistributed foreign earnings of $9.6 million, and an increase in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets of $14.0 million as a result of changes in the expected utilization of state tax credits. The reinstatement of the research tax credit resulted in an additional tax credit for ten months of fiscal 2015 and the full year of fiscal 2016, which was recorded in fiscal 2016. The integration of acquired technologies represents the income tax effect resulting from the transfer of certain intangible assets among company-controlled entities. The income tax effect is generally recognized over five years. These intangible assets generally result from the acquisition of technology by a company-controlled entity as part of a business or asset acquisition. During the year, we made provisional estimates of the accounting impacts of certain provisions of the Tax Act. In the fourth quarter, as a result of further analyzes of certain aspects of the Tax Act, we have finalized the following provisional estimates. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, we remeasured our deferred taxes, resulting in a first-quarter provisional tax expense of $45.6 million based on the tax rate that will apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods. In the fourth quarter, we finalized our calculations resulting in a tax expense for fiscal 2018 of $51.1 million. As part of the adoption of a new territorial tax system, the Tax Act required us to pay a one-time transition tax on previously untaxed earnings represented by foreign cash and certain other net current assets, and 8% on the remaining earnings. As of the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we had recorded a provisional transition tax expense of $73.4 million, as well as a provisional income tax payable of $17.9 million. In the fourth quarter, we finalized our calculations resulting in a tax expense of $63.1 million and income tax payable of $8.9 million. We intend to elect to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act. We continue to obtain, analyze and interpret additional guidance issued related to the Tax Act. The applicability and impact of the following new tax provisions, are dependent in part on forthcoming IRS guidance. A tax on global intangible low-tax income (GILTI), which is determined annually based on our aggregate foreign subsidiaries' income in excess of certain qualified business asset investment return, will be effective for us in fiscal year 2019. We need additional information to complete our analysis on whether to adopt an accounting policy to account for the tax effects of GILTI in the period that we are subject to such tax, or to provide deferred taxes for book and tax basis differences that upon reversal, may be subject to such tax. Accordingly, we have not recorded any tax or deferred tax assets or liabilities with respect to GILTI in fiscal year 2018. We will make our accounting policy decision and complete the required accounting in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. A base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT), which functions as a minimum tax that partially disallows deductions for certain related party transactions, that is not effective for us until fiscal year 2019. A special tax deduction for foreign-derived intangible income (FDII), which, in general, allows a deduction of certain intangible income earned in the U.S. and derived from foreign sources, that is not effective for us until fiscal year 2019. As part of the adoption of a territorial tax system, the Tax Act also provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we made significant changes to our international tax structure by transferring intangible assets between certain foreign subsidiaries and changing the tax status of these subsidiaries for U.S. tax purposes. As a result, we recorded a deferred tax benefit of $172.0 million for the future U.S. tax deduction related 40 Table of Contents to these intangible assets. We paid foreign income tax of $67.7 million associated with the gain recognized on certain of these transactions. The tax liabilities associated with these transfers are treated as prepaid taxes. A portion of these foreign taxes may result in a U.S. foreign tax credit, but the amount expected to be realized cannot be determined at this time. The tax liabilities and benefits are subject to examination by U.S. and foreign tax authorities in future years. In fiscal 2018, we reevaluated our strategy and subsequently withdrew our contest concerning the Hungary tax litigation related to one issue in the audit of fiscal years 2011 through 2013 and recorded a tax expense of $5.7 million. For further discussion of the provision for income taxes, impacts related to the Tax Act, the restructuring of our foreign intellectual property rights and the Hungary audit, see Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash and cash equivalents are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of October 31, 2018 , we held an aggregate of $177.6 million in cash and cash equivalents in the United States and an aggregate of $545.5 million in our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the Tax Act, we have recorded a tax liability for the transition tax on foreign earnings, payable over eight years, of $0.7 million and $8.2 million reflected as a short-term and long-term liability, respectively. If we decide to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the U.S. in the future, the earnings that were subject to the transition tax would not be subject to further U.S. tax. In addition, we have provided foreign deferred taxes on our undistributed earnings sufficient to address the incremental tax that would be due on future foreign earnings. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed a restructuring of our foreign intellectual property rights, resulting in a one-time tax payment of $67.7 million, which is included in current prepaid taxes. The following sections discuss changes in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of cash flow, and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during fiscal 2018 . Cash and Cash Equivalents Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change 2018 2017 (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 723.1 $ 1,048.4 $ (325.3 ) (31 )% Cash and cash equivalents decreased primarily due to cash used for business combinations and asset acquisitions, and stock repurchases under our accelerated stock repurchase agreements, partially offset by cash from our operations and net proceeds from our credit facilities. Cash Flows Year Ended October 31, $ Change $ Change 2018 2017 2016 2017 to 2018 2016 to 2017 (dollars in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 424.2 $ 634.6 $ 586.6 $ (210.4 ) $ 48.0 Cash used in investing activities (743.5 ) (189.3 ) (142.7 ) (554.2 ) (46.6 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 5.1 (373.1 ) (306.9 ) 378.2 (66.2 ) Cash Provided by Operating Activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. 41 Table of Contents Fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by higher vendor disbursements, higher income taxes payment, higher accounts receivable due to timing of customer billings, and higher inventory. Disbursements in fiscal 2018 included certain one-time payments of $163.3 million for income taxes and $65.0 million for a litigation settlement. Fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by higher cash collections, partially offset by higher disbursements for operations, including vendors. Cash Used in Investing Activities Fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by higher cash paid for acquisitions of $393.4 million and lower proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $128.1 million. Fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by higher cash paid for acquisitions and intangible assets of $199.1 million, partially offset by higher proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments of $139.3 million. Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. Cash provided by financing activity in fiscal 2018 was higher compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher proceeds of $300.6 million from drawdowns of our credit facilities and lower debt repayment of $85.3 million. Fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to higher debt repayments of $195.6 million, partially offset by higher proceeds from the drawdown of our senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $135.0 million. Accounts Receivable, net Year Ended October 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) $554.2 $451.1 $103.1 23% Changes in our accounts receivable balance are primarily driven by timing of customer billing, collection activities and to a lesser extent, customer receivables acquired through our acquisitions. Working Capital Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our consolidated balance sheets: Year Ended October 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 1,543.8 $ 1,682.6 $ (138.8 ) (8 )% Current liabilities 2,102.4 1,614.1 488.3 30 % Working capital (deficit) $ (558.6 ) $ 68.5 $ (627.1 ) (915 )% Decreases in our working capital were primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $325.3 million, an increase in short term debt of $333.8 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $88.3 million, and an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $78.5 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $103.1 million, an increase in inventory of $60.5 million, and an increase in income taxes receivable and prepaid taxes of $28.3 million. Other As of October 31, 2018 , our cash equivalents consisted of taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. We proactively manage our cash equivalents balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, 42 Table of Contents with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents, invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 5 and 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and available credit under our Revolver (defined below) will satisfy our routine business requirements for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. Other Commitments Credit and Term Loan Facilities In July 2018, we entered into a 220.0 million RMB (approximately $33.0 million) credit agreement with a lender in China to support our facilities expansion. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on the Chinese Central Bank rate plus 10% of such rate. As of October 31, 2018 , we had $5.5 million outstanding under the agreement. On November 28, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with several lenders (the Credit Agreement) providing for (i) a $650.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) and (ii) a $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the Term Loan). The Credit Agreement amended and restated our previous credit agreement dated May 19, 2015 (the 2015 Agreement), in order to increase the size of the revolving credit facility from $500.0 million to $650.0 million , provide a new $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, and extend the termination date of the revolving credit facility from May 19, 2020 to November 28, 2021. Subject to obtaining additional commitments from lenders, the principal amount of the loans provided under the Credit Agreement may be increased by us by up to an additional $150.0 million . The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to operate within a maximum leverage ratio and maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of October 31, 2018 , we were in compliance with all financial covenants. As of October 31, 2018 , we had $133.8 million outstanding balance, net of debt issuance costs, under the Term Loan, of which $120.0 million was classified as long-term liabilities. Outstanding principal payments under the Term Loan are due as follows: Fiscal year (in thousands) 2019 $ 14,062 2020 17,813 2021 27,187 2022 75,000 Total $ 134,062 As of October 31, 2017 , we had $144.0 million outstanding balance, net of debt issuance costs, under the Term loan, of which $134.1 million was classified as long-term liabilities, and no outstanding balance under the Revolver. The total outstanding balance of the Revolver as of October 31, 2018 was $330.0 million , which was included in short-term liabilities. We expect the borrowings under the Revolver will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. As of October 31, 2018 , borrowings under the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR +1.125% and the applicable interest rate for the Revolver was LIBOR +1.000% . In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.125% and 0.200% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. Subsequent to fiscal year 2018, we drew down $150.0 million under the Revolver. The total outstanding balance of the Revolver as of December 14, 2018 is $430.0 million , net of repayments. 43 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 31, 2018 : Total Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020/ Fiscal 2021 Fiscal 2022/ Fiscal 2023 Thereafter Other (in thousands) Lease Obligations: Operating Leases(1) $ 589,900 $ 61,819 $ 116,784 $ 93,162 $ 318,135 $ Purchase Obligations(2) 456,823 272,979 183,526 318 Revolver(3) 335,535 335,535 Term Loan(3) 134,062 14,062 45,000 75,000 Other Long-Term Obligations(4) 2,588 863 1,725 Long term accrued income taxes(5) 50,590 1,429 1,429 5,357 42,375 Total $ 1,569,498 $ 685,258 $ 348,464 $ 169,909 $ 323,492 $ 42,375 (1) See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (2) Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business for which we have not received the goods or services as of October 31, 2018 . Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. (3) These commitments relate to the principal of the Revolver, the Term Loan, and a credit facility as discussed in Other Commitments above. (4) These other obligations include fees associated with our Revolver. (5) Long-term accrued income taxes represent uncertain tax benefits and transition tax liability as of October 31, 2018 . Currently, a reasonably reliable estimate of timing of payments related to uncertain tax benefits in individual years beyond fiscal 2018 cannot be made due to uncertainties in timing of the commencement and settlement of potential tax audits. The expected timing of payments of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payment and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.