Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report. Competition Within our Design Automation segment, we compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal design capabilities. The EDA industry is highly competitive. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. We compete with a variety of different EDA vendors, including publicly traded companies offering varying ranges of products and services as well as other EDA vendors that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process. Additionally, some of our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products. For our Ansys S&A software solutions, our competitors include publicly traded companies, small, geographically-focused firms, startups, and solutions produced in-house by the end users. Within our Design IP segment, Synopsys competes against numerous other IP providers and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, features, availability of titles for new manufacturing processes, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license 10 Table of Contents terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. Likewise, no single factor drives an IP customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Risks related to competitive factors affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Proprietary Rights We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,800 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2044 and generally have a term of 20 years from filing. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we operate. While protecting our proprietary technology is important, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Responsible Business Matters At Synopsys, we recognize that as we drive innovation and business success in the era of pervasive intelligence, we are simultaneously responsible for the sustainability of our operations, products and ecosystem, which may impact our long-term value as a company. Our Responsible Business program at Synopsys provides a focus and structure for how we address both our own operational impact on the world and our ability to influence others around us. For example, Synopsys is driving energy savings in the semiconductor ecosystem through solutions that optimize energy efficiency in the design and use of chips and systems, along with solutions that reduce energy use, water use, and waste generation in semiconductor manufacturing. With the addition of our Ansys business, we now offer expanded capabilities that help customers model, predict, and improve product performance and sustainability across a broader range of industries. Together, these solutions enable more efficient design cycles, reduce physical prototyping, and support the development of energy-efficient, AI-enabled systems, further amplifying our impact on responsible innovation. We maintain a robust governance structure for our Responsible Business program, gauging and acting on our highest priority responsible business impacts, business risks, and opportunities, as we believe this creates positive impact for our stockholders as well as our customers, employees, partners, and local communities. Human Capital Resources Synopsys mission is to empower innovators to drive human advancement, and we believe our people are the key to our success. Our People and Places team, led by our Chief People Officer, focuses on building a vibrant workplace culture where talent around the globe can learn, grow, and bring their best selves to work. Our people strategy is built around five key pillars: Drive Performance, Inspire Leaders and Teams, Foster Learning and Growth, Transform Experiences and Engagement, and Accelerate Next Gen Synopsys. To help employees thrive, we offer opportunities for learning and growth, tools for collaboration and innovation, respectful work environments, and comprehensive total rewards. We believe these efforts create value for our stockholders, customers and employees. As of fiscal 2025 year-end, Synopsys had approximately 28,000 employees, with about 23% in the United States and 77% in other locations worldwide. Approximately 75% of our employees are engineers, and over half hold Master's or PhD degrees. We focus on several human capital measures and objectives, including recruitment and retention; opportunity and community; total rewards; employee health, safety, and well-being; employee engagement; and talent development and succession planning. Risks related to our human capital are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Recruitment and Retention 11 Table of Contents In fiscal 2025, our total employee headcount grew by approximately 40% primarily as a result of the Ansys Merger. As of our fiscal 2025 year-end, our voluntary turnover rate was 5.7%. We attribute the strong retention of our talented workforce to several factors, including exciting and challenging assignments; growth opportunities; strong leadership and management; a culture grounded in our core values of Agility, Courage, Excellence, and Trust; competitive and equitable compensation and benefits; our leading products and technology; and the strength of our customer relationships. Opportunity and Community Our success depends on the more than 28,000 extraordinary professionals who make up our workforce across 30-plus countries. Our efforts to create a great work environment at Synopsys span every part of the employee experience, from attracting and retaining talent to fostering a culture of collaboration. We strive for people practices that are fair for all and regularly review and improve talent management processes, including those in hiring, compensation, talent development, and promotions. We also offer programs and events globally to help our employees learn about each other, foster connections, and collaborate. Total Rewards Our Total Rewards program provides meaningful global benefits, compensation, and recognition for the time, energy, commitment, skills, and expertise employees bring to Synopsys every day. For eligible employees, benefits may include: Market-competitive salary and cash bonus opportunities; Equity compensation; Robust medical, dental, vision, and wellness benefits; Employee Assistance Program (EAP); Comprehensive leave plans; Life insurance options; Retirement plans; Financial planning tools; Student loan repayment assistance; Well-being and family support; and Parental and elder care resources. Health, Safety, and Well-being Our commitment to health, safety, and wellness is underscored by resources that help employees thrive in a hybrid work environment and balance work and personal life. Our Synopsys Wellbeing campaign encourages leaders and managers to model healthy behaviors and create opportunities for team wellness activities. We also offer a variety of programs and resources at no cost to employees and their families to support their mental, emotional, and financial well-being. Employee Engagement We maintain a comprehensive employee feedback program to understand the employee experience and make improvements in areas such as customer interaction and knowledge sharing. Through our annual SHAPE Synopsys survey, we gather employee insights on values, manager effectiveness, innovation, belonging, and other critical factors. We also use pulse surveys to provide space for conversations about identity, direction, and connection. In October 2025, approximately 95% of our employees participated in the SHAPE survey. We received an engagement score of 81, which was calculated by averaging favorable responses to job satisfaction questions. In fiscal 2025, Synopsys received more than 90 workplace and culture awards, including Great Place to Work certification in 14 countries and recognition from Newsweek, Forbes, Fortune, U.S. News & World Report, Comparably, and The Wall Street Journal. These results demonstrate Synopsys' stability and resiliency and the fact that we have a highly engaged global workforce. Employees reported strong excitement for the company's future, trust in leadership, a sense of belonging, and personal investment in our mission. To promote employee engagement and recognition, we invest in programs such as the annual Engineering and Innovation Conference and Pitch Fest innovation contest. As we grow, we aspire to maintain our results-oriented 12 Table of Contents culture by balancing productivity with smart investments in our employees development, while also supporting individual well-being. These are two key drivers of the overall employee experience. We believe strong individual and business performance stems from engaged employees who have clarity on goals, receive regular feedback, and have opportunities to grow. Building on our commitment to development, our enhanced performance process deepens the connection between individual objectives and key results, our values, and overall company outcomes. This is an agile performance process that drives transparency through continuous feedback and quarterly goal alignment conversations. These efforts are supported by the implementation of a new AI-powered performance management platform. Talent Development and Succession Planning We offer programs to support career advancement, including a digital learning platform that fosters a curious learning culture with access to training, articles, videos, and blogs. We also host in-person and on-demand learning sessions designed to build capabilities and adaptability required for the future. As employees advance in their careers, our training framework is intended to develop new technical skills and core competencies. Our management training focuses on communication, engagement, coaching, hiring, and key business skills. This is based on our belief that employees should work for and with great managers and leaders. The training aims to promote an ethical and supportive work environment that is free from bias and harassment. In fiscal 2025, we introduced courses to help managers lead through change and become effective coaches. Regions and business teams also customize development programs for their specific demographics. 13 Table of Contents Information about our Executive Officers The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 19, 2025 were as follows: Name Age Position Sassine Ghazi 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Aart J. de Geus 71 Executive Chair of the Board of Directors Shelagh Glaser 61 Chief Financial Officer Mike Ellow 62 Chief Revenue Officer Janet Lee 62 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Sassine Ghazi has served as our Chief Executive Officer since January 2024, became our President in November 2021 and joined our Board of Directors in August 2023. Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer, he served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2020 to January 2024. Mr. Ghazi joined Synopsys in March 1998 as an applications engineer and held a series of sales positions with increasing responsibility, culminating in leadership of worldwide strategic accounts. Prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Ghazi was the general manager for all digital and custom products, the largest business group in Synopsys. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ghazi was a design engineer at Intel Corporation. Mr. Ghazi received his bachelors degree in Business Administration from Lebanese American University; a B.S.E.E from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993; and an M.S.E.E. from the University of Tennessee in 1995. Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and served as a member of our Board of Directors since our inception and as Chair of our Board of Directors from 1986 to 1992 and from 1998 until his transition to Executive Chair of our Board of Directors in January 2024. He served as Chief Executive Officer from 1994 to 2012 and as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan from May 2012 until April 2022, and Chief Executive Officer from April 2022 until January 2024. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Shelagh Glaser has served as our Chief Financial Officer since December 2022. Prior to joining Synopsys, Ms. Glaser served as Chief Financial Officer of Zendesk, Inc. from May 2021 to November 2022. Ms. Glaser previously served in senior finance roles at Intel Corporation, a multinational technology company, including serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for its Data Platform Group from July 2019 to May 2021 and serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in various other senior roles in its Client Computing Group from December 2013 to July 2019. Ms. Glaser has served as a director and member of the Audit Committee at PubMatic, Inc. since June 2022. Ms. Glaser holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of Michigan and an M.B.A. in Finance from Carnegie Mellon University. Mike Ellow has served as our Chief Revenue Officer since November 2025. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ellow was the Chief Executive Officer of Siemens EDA, a business unit of Siemens Digital Industries, from June 2024 to November 2025. Prior to becoming the Chief Executive Officer of Siemens EDA, he was the Executive Vice President, EDA Global Sales, Services and Customer Support from January 2021 to June 2024. He has also held various leadership roles in sales and customer support, starting at Berkeley Design Automation in 2011 and through Mentor Graphics' acquisition by Siemens Digital Industries Software. He started his career in sales at Cadence Design Systems in 1997, where he held various leadership roles until 2010. Mr. Ellow holds a B.S.E.E. from Lehigh University, an M.S.E.E. from the University of Southern California, and an M.B.A. from California State University, Fullerton. Janet Lee has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2025. From June 2023 to July 2025, she was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of ANSYS, Inc. She served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at ANSYS, Inc. from June 2017 to June 2023. Previously, Ms. Lee was Vice President of Legal and Intellectual Property at HERE North America and Director of Legal and IP at Nokia Research Center. Ms. Lee holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Michigan, a Master of Arts from Harvard University and a Juris Doctorate from Stanford Law School. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors, or any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that May Affect Future Results Descriptions of risks associated with our business are set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in the following discussion and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Legal Proceedings,