Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents We typically license Synopsys IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. See Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies and Bases of Presentation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Our hardware products, which principally consist of our prototyping and emulation systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Risks related to disruptions in our supply chain affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project. Competition Within our Design Automation segment, we compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal design capabilities. The EDA industry is highly competitive. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Siemens EDA. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers internally developed design tools and capabilities. Within our Design IP segment, Synopsys competes against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, features, availability of titles for new manufacturing processes, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. Our Software Integrity segment competes with numerous solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. For example, competitors named in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing include Checkmarx Ltd., Veracode, Inc., Open Text Corporation, GitHub, Inc. and Snyk Ltd. Risks related to competitive factors affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Proprietary Rights We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,300 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2044 and generally have a term of twenty years from filing. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. While protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Environment, Social and Governance Matters At Synopsys, our Smart Future Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy provides a framework for how we manage our own operational impact on the world and our ability to influence others to do the same, as we 11 Table of Contents believe this approach supports the success of the business. We leverage our strategy and our corporate governance processes to assess and manage the ESG matters that are relevant to our business as part of our efforts to operate in a sustainable manner. We aim to influence positive social and environmental change across our ecosystem by applying our resources, competencies, and team-based problem-solving approach. Our technology is in action in countless ways, from bringing safety and security to the driverless car revolution to enabling the technologies that are an increasingly vital component of protecting human health and well-being. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing policies; practices; priority and risk assessments; risk management initiatives, goals and progress toward goals; and public disclosures relating to ESG matters, except to the extent delegated to other committees of our Board of Directors, such as matters related to human capital management and diversity, equity and inclusion. Additional information about our approach to our ESG priorities is available on our ESG website, including our Environmental Policy and our ESG Report. The contents of our website and ESG Report are referenced for general information only and are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Human Capital Resources At Synopsys, we are committed to empowering our employees to pursue their passion, challenge themselves and their peers, and make their mark on the world. We believe this creates value for us, our stockholders, and the lives of the people we impact every day. Our commitment to attracting, developing and retaining top talent makes this goal possible and our constant pursuit of improving our employees' experience promotes a culture where employees can thrive in their career. As of our fiscal 2023 year-end, Synopsys had approximately 20,300 employees, with approximately 24% in the United States and 76% in other locations around the world. Approximately 80% of our employees are engineers, and over half of those employees hold Masters or PhD degrees. The human capital measures and objectives that we focus on include recruitment and retention; diversity, equity and inclusion; total rewards; employee health, safety, and wellbeing; employee engagement and development; and succession planning. Risks related to our human capital are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recruitment and Retention Our workforce is representative of the industry we serve. In fiscal 2023, we increased our employee headcount by approximately 7%, with a continued focus on promoting gender diversity with respect to those in technical and senior level positions and ensuring a vibrant talent pipeline with early career hiring and investment in training and development. As of our fiscal 2023 year-end, our undesired turnover rate was 2.7%.1 We attribute the strong retention of our talented workforce to a number of factors, including exciting and challenging assignments; growth opportunities; strong leadership and management; a culture of integrity; our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion; competitive and equitable compensation and benefits; our leading products and technology; and the strength of our customer relationships. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We seek to integrate diversity, equity and inclusion into our corporate values at every levelfrom our foundation of integrity to our execution excellence and from our dedicated leadership to our united passion for a better tomorrow. We strive to maintain a culture that values different perspectives and backgrounds, where everyone is treated with respect for who they are, and where people feel a sense of belonging. We believe this is not only essential for our success as a global leader in innovation, but also for the success of our employees in their own careers. We value the diversity of our teams, talent pipelines and pay and development programs, with a goal to ensure inclusive, equitable practices. We carefully study retention trends and feedback from diverse groups to identify areas where we can improve. 1 We calculate undesired turnover rate by dividing the number of undesired exits from Synopsys by the average headcount for fiscal 2023, and we define undesired turnover as exits by high-performing employees who resigned from Synopsys (or its subsidiaries) to pursue other work opportunities. Undesired turnover does not include employees with low performance, mutual resignations, or resignations due to personal reasons (e.g., retirement or returning to school). 12 Table of Contents As of our fiscal 2023 year-end: Women comprised 25.4% of our global workforce; Women in senior level positions comprised 13.1% of all senior level positions at the company; and U.S. Black, Latinx, and Indigenous persons comprised 5.8% of our U.S. workforce. We provide training designed to encourage equitable and inclusive behavior to attract, retain and develop our workforce. In addition, our Employee Resource Groups, which are vital to our Synopsys community, host events and implement actions to attract and engage diverse talent and foster an inclusive workplace. In fiscal 2023, we included workforce metrics such as diversity, employee retention and employee engagement as incentive plan goals for our executive officers to advance key diversity and human capital initiatives. We believe these initiatives help to ensure that we continue to seek out strong, diverse, qualified candidates, and that we develop and retain key talent. Total Rewards Our Total Rewards are designed to offer meaningful benefits and compensation for the time, energy, commitment, skills, and expertise employees bring to the company every day. We have practices in place that are intended to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance. We benchmark market practices and regularly review our compensation and benefits against the market to help ensure that it is competitive. We also offer a comprehensive set of benefits for employees and their families, focused on physical, mental and financial health and wellbeing. Our compensation and benefit programs are tailored to the various geographies in which we operate, and for eligible employees may include: Market-competitive salary and cash bonus opportunity; Employee Stock Purchase Plan; Equity compensation; Robust medical, dental, vision, and wellness benefits; Comprehensive leave plans; Life insurance options; Retirement plans and associated benefits; Financial planning tools and employee assistance plans; Student loan repayment assistance; Cancer-specific prevention, early detection, treatment and support programs; and Parental resources and adoption benefits. Health, Safety and Wellbeing Our commitment to health, safety, and wellness was underscored this year by the support and resources we offered to help employees thrive in a hybrid work environment while balancing their personal lives. Through our Stronger Through Wellbeing campaign, our leaders and managers are encouraged to model the importance of health and wellbeing, and many create opportunities to engage in wellness-related activities as a team. We also offer a variety of programs and resources at no cost to employees and their family members to support their mental, emotional, and financial wellbeing. Employee Engagement We have a comprehensive employee feedback program, and we use the feedback to gain an understanding of the employee experience and to make improvements in a variety of areasfrom how we interact with customers to how we share best practices, and more. Through our semi-annual SHAPE Synopsys surveys, we obtain employee insight into our values, manager effectiveness, ability to innovate, perceptions on diversity, inclusion and belonging, 13 Table of Contents and other critical factors. We also use the surveys to create space for important conversations about who we are, where we are going, and how we can connect with each other and our work. Approximately 94% of our employees participated in our SHAPE survey in May 2023. We received an engagement score of 82, which is calculated by computing the average score set to a 100-point scale, for all employee responses to the questions pertaining to employee satisfaction and job satisfaction. These results demonstrate Synopsys' stability, resiliency, and a global workforce that is highly engaged. We saw strong scores from our employees regarding their connection to our culture, their personal investment in Synopsys strategies and objectives, and their teams ability to innovate. As we grow, we aspire to maintain our results-oriented culture by balancing productivity with smart investments in our employees development, while also supporting individual wellbeingtwo key drivers of the overall employee experience. We believe ongoing performance feedback encourages greater engagement in our business and improved individual performance. Each year, our employees participate in our performance development process that summarizes key accomplishments for the preceding year, establishes new stretch goals, and identifies critical capabilities for development. As part of this process, we encourage managers to solicit and share supportive multi-rater feedback, further strengthening the focus on teamwork and team success. Talent Development and Succession Planning We offer several programs to support the career advancement of our employees. Through our digital learning platform, we foster and support an always learning culture where employees can access training, external articles, videos, and blogs. In addition, we host a series of in-person and on-demand learning sessions designed to build capability and adaptability required for the future. As employees advance in their careers, our training framework is intended to build new capabilities on established foundational skills. Based upon the belief that our employees deserve great managers, our management training is designed to increase capability in the areas of communication, engagement, coaching, diversity, equity, and inclusion, hiring and on-boarding, and business skills and help promote an ethical and supportive work environment free from bias and harassment. In fiscal 2023, we introduced a new leadership training, and focused on helping our many managers thrive in connecting team work to company priorities while giving them the tools to be great coaches and leaders. In addition, our regions and business teams customize development programs for their specific needs. Information about our Executive Officers The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 12, 2023 were as follows: Name Age Position Aart J. de Geus 69 Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Board of Directors Sassine Ghazi 53 President and Chief Operating Officer Shelagh Glaser 59 Chief Financial Officer Richard Mahoney 61 Chief Revenue Officer John F. Runkel, Jr. 68 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chair of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan from May 2012 until April 2022. Effective January 1, 2024, Dr. de Geus will transition into the role of Executive Chair of our Board of Directors. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of our Board of Directors since 1986, and as Chair of our Board of Directors from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until his upcoming transition to Executive Chair on January 1, 2024. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Sassine Ghazi has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2020, became our President in November 2021 and joined our Board of Directors in August 2023. Effective January 1, 2024, Mr. Ghazi will assume the role of President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Ghazi joined Synopsys in March 1998 as an Application Engineer and served as General Manager of the Design Group. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ghazi was a design engineer at Intel Corporation. Mr. Ghazi received his bachelors degree in Business Administration from Lebanese American 14 Table of Contents University; a B.S.E.E from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993; and an M.S.E.E. from the University of Tennessee in 1995. Shelagh Glaser has served as our Chief Financial Officer since December 2022. Prior to joining Synopsys, Ms. Glaser served as Chief Financial Officer of Zendesk, Inc. from May 2021 to November 2022. Ms. Glaser previously served in senior finance roles at Intel Corporation, a multinational technology company, including serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for its Data Platform Group from July 2019 to May 2021 and serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in various other senior roles in its Client Computing Group from December 2013 to July 2019. Ms. Glaser has served as a director and member of the Audit Committee at PubMatic, Inc. since June 2022. Ms. Glaser holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of Michigan and an M.B.A. in Finance from Carnegie Mellon University. Richard Mahoney has served as our Chief Revenue Officer since November 2022. Mr. Mahoney joined Synopsys as a Special Projects Advisor in May 2022. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Mahoney held several senior management positions with Ansys, Inc. from 2016 to 2022, including most recently as Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Customer Excellence from December 2016 to May 2022. Prior to joining Ansys, from 2014 to 2016, Mr. Mahoney was Senior Vice President, Design Enablement and International Sales, at Global Foundries, a semiconductor manufacturing company. Mr. Mahoney holds an A.S. in Computer Science from the Maxwell Institute of Technology. John F. Runkel, Jr. has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2014. From October 2008 to March 2013, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Affymetrix, Inc. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Runkel served in several roles at VISX, Inc. from 2001 to 2005, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Development and General Counsel. Mr. Runkel was also a partner at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP for 11 years. Mr. Runkel holds a Bachelor of Arts and a Juris Doctorate from the University of California, Los Angeles. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in the following discussion, and in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Legal Proceedings, and