Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We typically license our DesignWare IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Our hardware products, which principally consist of our prototyping and emulation systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project. Competition The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer 10 Table of Contents support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation (now part of Siemens AG). We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers internally developed design tools and capabilities. Within our Semiconductor & System Design segment, Synopsys also competes against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability and features, availability of titles for new manufacturing processes, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. Our Software Integrity segment competes with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. For example, competitors named in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing include Checkmarx Ltd., Veracode (now part of Thoma Bravo, LLC) and Micro Focus International plc. Proprietary Rights We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,300 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2040 . Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. While protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Corporate Social Responsibility at Synopsys We recognize that our significant role in shaping a future of Smart Everything brings important responsibilities. The future is not smart if it is not sustainable, fair and secure. Our "Smart Future" Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program provides a focus and structure for how Synopsys addresses both our own operational impact on the world and our ability to influence others around us. We are helping address global issues such as climate change, as well as focusing on the need for social justice and equality. Through our CSR program, we are committed to taking actions related to our operational impact, such as driving diversity and inclusion initiatives throughout our workforce and on our Board of Directors, building security into our products, and reducing our environmental impact. Synopsys has committed to ambitious CSR goals, including, for example, a pledge to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2024, compared with our 2018 baseline. Additional detail on our proactive efforts to address climate change are included in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report, CDP Climate Change Questionnaire, and on our website. 1 1 The contents of our website and our Corporate Social Responsibility Report and CDP Climate Change Questionnaire are referenced for general information only and are not incorporated into this 10-K. 11 Table of Contents Our Smart Future commitment also means applying our problem-solving approach, people, technology and other resources to influence those around usincluding our customers, partners and suppliersto join us in driving positive change in the world. Synopsys technology is in action in countless ways: from bringing safety and security to the driverless car revolution to enabling the technologies that are an increasingly vital component of protecting human health and well-being. As the role of computing increases exponentially, IoT, 5G and machine learning applications risk driving similarly exponential energy consumption and carbon emissions. This makes Synopsys work to enable low-power computing at the device level and in the cloud especially critical to the industrys sustainability. At the same time, we are advancing global supply chain sustainability as a member of the Responsible Business Alliance and our Synopsys for Good program combines volunteer time, our technology expertise and financial donations to bring STEM education and other support to the communities in which we work. Human Capital Resources Synopsys is committed to attracting and retaining the brightest and best talent, so investing in human capital is critical to our success. As of October 31, 2020 , Synopsys had 15,036 employees, of which approximately 35% are in the Americas, and 65% in other global regions. Approximately 80% of our employees are engineers, and almost half of those employees hold Masters or PhD degrees. Human capital measures and objectives that Synopsys focuses on in managing its business include employee safety, talent acquisition and retention, employee engagement, development and training, diversity and inclusion, and compensation and pay equity. COVID-19 and Employee Safety During the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary focus has been on the safety and well-being of our employees and their families. Our global pandemic efforts include leveraging the advice and recommendations of infectious disease experts to establish proper safety standards and secure appropriate levels of personal protective equipment. We launched regional emergency response teams to ensure that our employees have the appropriate equipment and support to safely and productively work remotely. In addition, in order to reinforce a deep connection and establish clear direction with our employees, we have significantly increased leadership updates and management outreach. As part of our planning, we also solicited voluntary individual profiles from our employees, enabling us to efficiently and effectively address their unique needs. Our employees have been provided with a composite of benefits and support initiatives to address the inherent challenges of working remotely during a pandemic. As the pandemic continues, the health and well-being of our workforce remains our top priority while we ensure productivity while working from home. Engaging the Entire Team We address employee engagement through three foundational areas: recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce, soliciting and addressing employee feedback, and frequent management outreach to ensure commitment, engagement, continuous learning and skills development. Our workforce is representative of the industry we serve. We are highly technical, enjoy pushing the boundaries of what is possible and are individually innovative. In 2020, we grew our global team by approximately 8% with a keen focus on increasing the number of technical women in our workforce and ensuring a vibrant talent pipeline through early career hiring. We had an external hiring rate of 27% women and 29% early career hires (defined as within one year of a candidates most recent academic degree). In this same timeframe, our undesired turnover rate has been notably low, compared to competitive benchmarks and historical trends. We attribute our strong retention to a number of factors, including exciting and challenging assignments, strong leadership and management, the opportunity to learn new skills and advance careers, the strength of our technology, customer relationships and business, along with competitive and equitable total rewards. To ensure a compelling total rewards philosophy and practice, we have practices in place to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance. We benchmark for market practices, and regularly review our compensation against the market to ensure it remains competitive. We also offer a comprehensive and tailored set of benefits for employees and their families, providing protection from unexpected losses or medical expenses. Our benefits programs are tailored to the various geographies in which we operate. We believe in continual improvement and use employee feedback to drive and improve processes that support our customers and ensure a deep understanding of our culture and vision among our employees. We conduct a confidential employee survey twice a year, and in 2020 we had record-breaking participation90% of our employees shared their experiences and provided feedback for improvement. Results show that Synopsys employees are highly engaged, with scores generally rising in recent years. In addition, during 2020, we conducted several surveys to understand our employees well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic and to more effectively 12 Table of Contents guide our response. Those surveys showed high approval rates of our communication and response to the pandemic. Ninety percent felt that we were helping them feel connected to one another, providing a sense of community while working remotely. We also believe that ongoing performance feedback encourages greater engagement in our business and improved individual performance. Each year, our employees participate in our Performance Development Program that summarizes key accomplishments for the preceding year, establishes new stretch goals, and identifies critical capabilities for development. We encourage managers to solicit and share supportive 360-degree feedback, further strengthening the focus on teamwork and team success. Empowering Leadership We regard every member of our global team as a leader. We sponsor a number of leadership programs to address the career advancement and associated business impact of our employees, emerging leaders and executives. Our management training is designed to increase capability in the areas of communication, engagement, coaching, inclusion and diversity, hiring and on-boarding, business skills and ensuring an ethical and supportive work environment free from bias and harassment. As employees advance in their careers, our training framework builds new capabilities on established foundational skills. Our regions and business teams also customize development programs for their specific needs. Synopsys sponsors continuous learning and skills development through our digital platform that is utilized by 75% of our employees as the source for internal training and insights, as well as access to external articles, videos and blogs. In addition, we host a series of in-person and on-demand learning sessions designed to build capability and adaptability required for the future. Information about our Executive Officers The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 14, 2020 were as follows: Name Age Position Aart J. de Geus 66 Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Chi-Foon Chan 71 Co-Chief Executive Officer and President Sassine Ghazi 50 Chief Operating Officer Trac Pham 51 Chief Financial Officer Joseph W. Logan 61 Sales and Corporate Marketing Officer John F. Runkel, Jr. 65 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He has served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan since May 2012. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Chi-Foon Chan has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997. Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case Western Reserve University. Sassine Ghazi has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2020. Mr. Ghazi joined Synopsys in March 1998 as an Application Engineer and most recently served as General Manager of the Design Group. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ghazi was a design engineer at Intel. Mr. Ghazi received his bachelors degree in Business Administration from Lebanese American University; a B.S.E.E from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993; and an M.S.E.E. from the University of Tennessee in 1995. 13 Table of Contents Trac Pham is our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Pham joined Synopsys in November 2006 as Vice President, Financial Planning and Strategy. He became our Vice President, Corporate Finance, in August 2012, assuming additional responsibility for our tax and treasury functions, before being appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2014. Mr. Pham holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley and an MPIA (Master of Pacific International Affairs) from the University of California, San Diego. He is an active status California CPA. Joseph W. Logan serves as our Sales and Corporate Marketing Officer. He became Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales in September 2006 and assumed responsibility for our Corporate Marketing organization in August 2013. Previously, Mr. Logan was head of sales for Synopsys North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. John F. Runkel, Jr. has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2014. From October 2008 to March 2013, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Affymetrix, Inc. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Runkel served in several roles at VISX, Inc. from 2001 to 2005, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Development and General Counsel. Mr. Runkel was also a partner at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP for 11 years. He holds a Bachelor of Arts and a Juris Doctorate from the University of California, Los Angeles. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Investors should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. COVID-19 Pandemic Risks The COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused minor disruptions to our business operations to date and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition in the future. For example, we experienced limited hardware supply chain and logistical challenges as well as a slowdown in customer commitments in our Software Integrity segment. In response to the COVID-19 novel coronavirus pandemic, governments and businesses have taken unprecedented actions to contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, shelter-in-place orders and restrictions on non-essential businesses. These restrictions have significantly curtailed global economic activity and have caused substantial volatility and disruption in global financial markets. We transitioned most of our employees in affected regions to work remotely in order to comply with applicable restrictions and government requirements , and implemented travel restrictions and other changes to our business operations. We are transitioning employees back into offices in select jurisdictions in conformity with local guidelines and regulations. Each office must follow physical distancing guidelines and affirmative health measures in compliance with different local and national requirements. Although we have been able to navigate workplace restrictions and limitations with minimal disruptions to our business operations to date, we may further modify our business practices and real estate needs in response to the risks and negative impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business operations in future periods will depend on multiple uncertain factors, including the duration and scope of the pandemic, its overall negative impact on the global economy, continued responses by governments and businesses to COVID-19, the ability to secure timely payment from customers, the ability to accurately estimate customer demand, reduced willingness of current and potential customers to purchase our products and services due to their own business and market uncertainties, the ability of our business partners and third-party providers to fulfill their responsibilities and commitments, the ability to secure adequate and timely supply of equipment and materials from suppliers for our hardware products , and the ability to develop and deliver our products. In addition, continued weak economic conditions may result in impairment in value of our tangible and intangible assets. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks and uncertainties described in this Risk Factors section. Industry Risks The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries. The growth of the electronic design automation (EDA) industry as a whole, our Semiconductor & System Design segment product sales, and to some extent our Software Integrity segment product sales, are dependent on the semiconductor and electronics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers, systems companies, and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of systems-on-chips, integrated circuits, electronic systems and customers concerns about managing costs have previously led and in the future could lead to a decrease in design starts and design activity in general, with some customers focusing more on one discrete phase of the design process or opting for less advanced, but less risky, manufacturing processes that may not require the most advanced EDA products. Demand for our products and services could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if growth in the semiconductor and electronics industries slows or stalls, including due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, as the EDA industry has matured, consolidation has resulted in stronger competition from companies better able to compete as sole source vendors. This increased competition may cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor and electronics industries have become increasingly complex ecosystems. Many of our customers outsource the manufacture of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the efficiency of their design process. We work closely with major foundries to ensure that our EDA, IP, and 15 Table of Contents manufacturing solutions are compatible with their manufacturing processes. Similarly, we work closely with other major providers of semiconductor IP, particularly microprocessor IP, to optimize our EDA tools for use with their IP designs and to assure that their IP and our own IP products, which may each provide for the design of separate components on the same chip, work effectively together. If we fail to optimize our EDA and IP solutions for use with major foundries manufacturing processes or major IP providers products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP products is hampered, then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. A number of business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships, among our customers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining power, or reduced customer spending on software and services. Furthermore, we depend on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenue. Reduced customer spending or the loss of a small number of customers, particularly our large customers, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we and our competitors from time to time acquire businesses and technologies to complement and expand our respective product offerings. If any of our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies which we do not offer, they may be able to offer a larger technology portfolio, additional support and service capability, or lower prices, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Uncertainty in the global economy, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty caused by the recent challenging global economic conditions, including due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, could lead some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Such caution by customers could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts. Outside of a slowdown in customer commitments in our Software Integrity segment, we have not seen evidence of impacts on customer orders from the COVID-19 pandemic to date. We cannot predict the stability of the economy as a whole or the industries in which we operate. Further economic instability could adversely affect the banking and financial services industry and result in credit downgrades of the banks we rely on for foreign currency forward contracts, credit and banking transactions, and deposit services, or cause them to default on their obligations. There is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to the complex laws and regulations governing our industry, the banking and financial services industry, and the economy could affect our business. In addition, economic conditions could deteriorate in the future, and, in particular, the semiconductor and electronics industries could fail to grow, including as the result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and any disruption of international trade relationships such as tariffs, export licenses, or other government trade restrictions. In the event of future improvements in economic conditions for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to our business model. Any of the foregoing could cause adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition, and could cause our stock price to decline. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may become uncompetitive and obsolete, and our business and financial condition may be harmed. In our Semiconductor & System Design segment, we compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation (now part of Siemens AG). We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process. Moreover, our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products, including internal designs that compete with our IP products. In the area of IP products, we compete against numerous other IP providers as well as our customers internally developed IP. 16 Table of Contents In our Software Integrity segment, we compete with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and the demand for our products and services is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including demand for our customers products, design starts and our customers budgetary constraints. Technology in these industries evolves rapidly and is characterized by frequent product introductions and improvements as well as changes in industry standards and customer requirements. For example, the adoption of cloud computing and artificial intelligence technologies can bring new demands and also challenges in terms of disruption to both business models and our existing technology offerings. Semiconductor device functionality requirements continually increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and risk of chip design and manufacturing. At the same time, our customers and potential customers continue to demand an overall lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their purchases with one vendor. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license or usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles and technological shifts, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing software and hardware products, and successfully develop or acquire such new products; Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance; Our ability to enhance the value of our offerings through more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights, price discounts and other differentiating rights, such as multiple tool copies, post-contract customer support, re-mix rights that allow customers to exchange the software they initially licensed for other Synopsys products, and the ability to purchase pools of technology; Our ability to manage an efficient supply chain to ensure availability of hardware products; Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms; and Our ability to provide engineering and design consulting for our products. If we fail to successfully manage these competitive factors, fail to successfully balance the conflicting demands for innovative technology and lower overall costs, or fail to address new competitive forces, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Business Operations Risks The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations that may adversely affect our business. We derive roughly half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the U.S. We have also continually expanded our non-U.S. operations. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the U.S. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of increased risks, including: Ineffective or weaker legal protection of intellectual property rights; Uncertain economic and political conditions in countries where we do business; Government trade restrictions, including tariffs, export licenses, or other trade barriers, and changes to existing trade arrangements between various countries such as China; 17 Table of Contents Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business, which may include business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws; Financial risks such as longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; Inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; Additional taxes, interest, and potential penalties, and uncertainty around changes in tax laws of various countries; and Other factors beyond our control such as natural disasters, terrorism, civil unrest, war, and infectious diseases and pandemics, including COVID-19. Furthermore, if any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and results of operations will be harmed. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between certain Asian countries such as China and the United States, that political, diplomatic, or military events could result in trade disruptions, including tariffs, trade embargoes, export restrictions and other trade barriers. A significant trade disruption, export restriction, or the establishment or increase of any trade barrier in any area where we do business could reduce customer demand and cause customers to search for substitute products and services, make our products and services more expensive or unavailable for customers, increase the cost of our products and services, have a negative impact on customer confidence and spending, make our products less competitive, or otherwise have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits, our customers and suppliers businesses, and our results of operations. For example, beginning in May 2019, the United States government placed certain entities on the Entity List, restricting the sale of U.S. technologies to the named entities. As a result of this government action, unless and until the restriction is lifted, we are not able to ship products or provide support to these entities. In addition, in May 2020, the United States government placed further restrictions on certain entities on the Entity List to prevent them from sharing designs developed using U.S. software or technology with other entities on the Entity List and obtaining semiconductors manufactured with processes that use U.S. software and technology. In August 2020, the Entity List rules were further revised such that any company with knowledge that a customer will use certain U.S. technologies to design or produce any item for a Huawei-affiliated company on the Entity List must obtain a license prior to any export of such technologies. We believe that this latest restriction will not materially impact our business at this time, but cannot predict the impact that additional regulatory changes may have on our business in the future. In response to these actions or similar actions taken by the United States, other countries may adopt tariffs and trade barriers that could limit our ability to offer our products and services. Current and potential customers who are concerned or affected by such tariffs or restrictions may respond by developing their own products or replacing our solutions, which would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, government or customer efforts, attitudes, laws, or policies regarding technology independence may lead to non-U.S. customers favoring their domestic technology solutions that could compete with or replace our products, which would also have an adverse effect on our business. In addition to tariffs and other trade barriers, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to these complex laws and regulations could affect our business. We may incur substantial expense in complying with the new obligations to be imposed by these laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and our business overall. If we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to help ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or partners will not violate such laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our financial results are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies increases expenses of our foreign subsidiaries when they are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated statements of operations. Likewise, a strengthening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, including the renminbi or Yen, reduces revenue of our foreign subsidiaries upon translation and consolidation. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Although we engage in foreign currency hedging activity, we may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors may cause our revenue or earnings to fluctuate, including: Changes in demand for our products-especially products, such as hardware, generating upfront revenue-due to fluctuations in demand for our customers products and due to constraints in our customers budgets for research and development and EDA products and services; Changes in demand for our products due to customers reducing their expenditures, whether as a cost-cutting measure or a result of their insolvency or bankruptcy, and whether due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other reasons; Product competition in the EDA industry, which can change rapidly due to industry or customer consolidation and technological innovation; Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle, which often includes a substantial customer evaluation and approval process because of the complexity of our products and services; Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenue; Changes to the amount, composition and valuation of, and any impairments to or write-offs of, our inventory; Changes in the mix of our products sold, as increased sales of our products with lower gross margins, such as our hardware products, may reduce our overall margins; Expenses related to our acquisition and integration of businesses and technology; Changes in tax rules, as well as changes to our effective tax rate, including the tax effects of infrequent or unusual transactions and tax audit settlements; Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products, which includes a sole supplier for certain hardware components; Natural variability in the timing of IP drawdowns, which can be difficult to predict; General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries, such as disruptions to international trade relationships, including tariffs, export licenses, or other trade barriers affecting our or our suppliers products, as well as impacts due to the COVID-19 pandemic; and Changes in accounting standards, which may impact the way we recognize our revenue and costs and impact our earnings. 19 Table of Contents The timing of revenue recognition may also cause our revenue and earnings to fluctuate. The timing of revenue recognition is affected by factors that include: Cancellations or changes in levels of orders or the mix between upfront products revenue and time-based products revenue; Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront products revenue, such as hardware; Delay in the completion of professional services projects that require significant modification or customization and are accounted for using the percentage of completion method; Delay in the completion and delivery of IP products in development as to which customers have paid for early access; Customer contract amendments or renewals that provide discounts or defer revenue to later periods; and The levels of our hardware and IP revenues, which are recognized upfront and are primarily dependent upon our ability to provide the latest technology and meet customer requirements. These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our revenue or earnings and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, our results may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or such analysts may change their recommendation regarding our stock, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares at a time or a price that is favorable to them. Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and our reputation, particularly that of our security testing solutions. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and confidential employee information, in our data centers and on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and shelter-in-place orders, most of our employees in affected areas are working remotely, which magnifies the importance of the integrity of our remote access security measures. For example, we discovered unauthorized third-party access to our products and product license files hosted on our SolvNet customer license and product delivery system in 2015. While we identified and remediated the incident, it is possible that our security measures may be circumvented again in the future, and any such breach could harm our business and reputation. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to networks, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, in the operation of our business we also use third-party vendors that store certain sensitive data, including confidential information about our employees, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. While our standard vendor terms and conditions include provisions requiring the use of appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our data, as well as other safeguards, a breach may still occur. Any security breach of our own or a third-party vendors systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our software products, including our hosted solutions as well as our software security and quality testing solutions, may also be vulnerable to cyber attacks. An attack could disrupt the proper functioning of our software, cause errors in the output of our customers work, allow unauthorized access to our or our customers proprietary information, or cause other destructive outcomes. As a result, our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our products, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. We offer software security and quality testing solutions. If we fail to identify new and increasingly sophisticated methods of cyber attacks, or fail to invest sufficient resources in research and development regarding new threat vectors, our security testing products and services may fail to detect vulnerabilities in our customers software code. 20 Table of Contents An actual or perceived failure to identify security flaws may harm the perceived reliability of our security testing products and services, and could result in a loss of customers or sales, or an increased cost to remedy a problem. Furthermore, our growth and recent acquisitions in the software security and quality testing space may increase our visibility as a security-focused company and may make us a more attractive target for attacks on our own information technology infrastructure. Successful attacks could damage our reputation as a security-focused company. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our efforts to protect our technology may be costly and unsuccessful. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and other third-parties as well as intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, despite our measures to prevent piracy, other parties may attempt to illegally copy or use our products, which could result in lost revenue if their efforts are successful. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also be stolen, otherwise become known, or be independently developed by competitors. From time to time, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: Assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; Defend our products from piracy; Protect our trade secrets or know-how; or Determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. Acquisitions and strategic investments are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years. We expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future, but we may not find suitable acquisition or investment targets or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions or investments due to unfavorable credit markets, commercially unacceptable terms, or other risks, which could harm our operating results. Acquisitions and strategic investments are difficult, time-consuming, and pose a number of risks, including: Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; Difficulties entering into new markets in which we are not experienced or where competitors may have stronger positions; Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products; Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; Substantial reductions of our cash resources and/or the incurrence of debt; Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; 21 Table of Contents Difficulties in integrating or expanding sales, marketing and distribution functions and administrative systems, including information technology and human resources systems; Dilution of our current stockholders through the issuance of common stock as part of the merger consideration; Difficulties in negotiating, governing and realizing value from strategic investments; Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax and litigation, and the related expenses and diversion of resources; Disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of managements attention and uncertainty for employees and customers, particularly during the post-acquisition integration process; Potential negative impacts on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; Exposure to new operational risks, regulations, and business customs to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where we are not currently conducting business; The need to implement controls, processes and policies appropriate for a public company at acquired companies that may have lacked such controls, processes and policies; Negative impact on our net income resulting from acquisition or investment-related costs; and Requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of an acquisition, including required divestitures or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business. If we do not manage the foregoing risks, the acquisitions or strategic investments that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We pursue new product and technology initiatives from time to time, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. As part of the evolution of our business, we have made substantial investments to develop new products and enhancements to existing products through our acquisitions and research and development efforts. If we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we fail to introduce products that meet market demand, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, from time to time, we invest in expansion into adjacent markets, including software security and quality testing solutions. Although we believe these solutions are complementary to our EDA tools, we have less experience and a more limited operating history in offering software quality testing and security products and services, and our efforts in this area may not be successful. Our success in these new markets depends on a variety of factors, including the following: Our ability to attract a new customer base, including in industries in which we have less experience; Our successful development of new sales and marketing strategies to meet customer requirements; Our ability to accurately predict, prepare for, and promptly respond to technological developments in new fields, including, in the case of our software quality testing and security tools and services, identifying new security vulnerabilities in software code and ensuring support for a growing number of programming languages; Our ability to compete with new and existing competitors in these new industries, many of which may have more financial resources, industry experience, brand recognition, relevant intellectual property rights, or established customer relationships than we currently do, and could include free and open source solutions that provide similar software quality testing and security tools without fees; 22 Table of Contents Our ability to skillfully balance our investment in adjacent markets with investment in our existing products and services; Our ability to attract and retain employees with expertise in new fields; Our ability to sell and support consulting services at profitable margins; and Our ability to manage our revenue model in connection with hybrid sales of licensed products and consulting services. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets, including delays or disruptions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We devote substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry or by competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released, or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors, including those resulting from third-party suppliers, could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, any allegations of manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our hardware products, which primarily consist of prototyping and emulation systems, subject us to distinct risks. The growth in sales of our hardware products subjects us to several risks, including: Increased dependence on a sole supplier for certain hardware components, which may reduce our control over product quality and pricing and may lead to delays in production and delivery of our hardware products, should our supplier fail to deliver sufficient quantities of acceptable components in a timely fashion; Increasingly variable revenue and less predictable revenue forecasts, due to fluctuations in hardware revenue, which is recognized upfront upon shipment, as opposed to most sales of software products for which revenue is recognized over time; Potential reductions in overall margins, as the gross margin for our hardware products is typically lower than those of our software products; Longer sales cycles, which create risks of insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory and variations in inventory valuation, which can adversely affect our operating results; Decreases or delays in customer purchases in favor of next-generation releases, which may lead to excess or obsolete inventory or require us to discount our older hardware products; 23 Table of Contents Longer warranty periods than those of our software products, which may require us to replace hardware components under warranty, thus increasing our costs; and Potential impacts on our supply chain due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. As of October 31, 2020 , approximately 52% of our worldwide cash and cash equivalents balance is held by our international subsidiaries. We intend to meet our U.S. cash spending needs primarily through our existing U.S. cash balances, ongoing U.S. cash flows, and available credit under our term loan and revolving credit facilities. Should our cash spending needs in the U.S. rise and exceed these liquidity sources, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, we may be required to incur additional debt at higher than anticipated interest rates or access other funding sources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, capital structure or the market price of our common stock. From time to time we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. We are from time to time subject to claims alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products infringe a third partys intellectual property rights. Infringement claims can result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. We license third-party software and other intellectual property for use in product research and development and, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. We also license third-party software, including the software of our competitors, to test the interoperability of our products with other industry products and in connection with our professional services. These licenses may need to be renegotiated or renewed from time to time, or we may need to obtain new licenses in the future. Third parties may stop adequately supporting or maintaining their technology, or they or their technology may be acquired by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain licenses to these third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to sell the affected products, our customers use of the products may be interrupted, or our product development processes and professional services offerings may be disrupted, which could in turn harm our financial results, our customers, and our reputation. The inclusion of third-party intellectual property in our products can also subject us and our customers to infringement claims. Although we seek to mitigate this risk contractually, we may not be able to sufficiently limit our potential liability. Regardless of outcome, infringement claims may require us to use significant resources and may divert managements attention. Some of our products and technology, including those we acquire, may include software licensed under open source licenses. Some open source licenses could require us, under certain circumstances, to make available or grant licenses to any modifications or derivative works we create based on the open source software. Although we have tools and processes to monitor and restrict our use of open source software, the risks associated with open source usage may not be eliminated and may, if not properly addressed, result in unanticipated obligations that harm our business. If we fail to timely recruit and retain senior management and key employees, our business may be harmed. We depend in large part upon the services of key members of our senior management team to drive our future success. If we were to lose the services of any member of our senior management team, our business could be adversely affected. To be successful, we must also attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join us in connection with acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense and has increased. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. Any failure to recruit and retain key technical, 24 Table of Contents sales and managerial employees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our recruiting and retention efforts may be negatively impacted by restrictions on travel and business activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, efforts to recruit and retain qualified employees could be costly and negatively impact our operating expenses. We issue equity awards from employee equity plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure to limit the use of such equity-based compensation due to its dilutive effect on stockholders. If we are unable to grant attractive equity-based packages in the future, it could limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets, the recognition of revenue and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee-related liabilities, including commissions and variable compensation, and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, allowances for doubtful accounts, and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results. In addition, we cannot predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations. The uncertainty affects managements estimates and assumptions, which could result in greater variability in a variety of areas that depend on these estimates and assumptions. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) could adversely affect our financial results and may require significant changes to our internal accounting systems and processes. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. The FASB periodically issues new accounting standards on a variety of topics, including, for example, revenue recognition and accounting for leases. These and other such standards generally result in different accounting principles, which may significantly impact our reported results or could result in variability of our financial results. For example, the new revenue recognition standard became applicable to us at the beginning of fiscal 2019 and there is an increased volatility in our total revenue with less predictability than the prior accounting standard. Our results could be adversely affected by a change in our effective tax rate as a result of tax law changes and related new or revised guidance and regulations, changes in our geographical earnings mix, unfavorable government reviews of our tax returns, material differences between our forecasted and actual annual effective tax rates, future changes to our tax structure, or by evolving enforcement practices. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. Because we have a wide range of statutory tax rates in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, any changes in our geographical earnings mix, including those resulting from our intercompany transfer pricing or from changes in the rules governing transfer pricing, could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, a change in the tax law of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates, an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense or limitations on our ability to utilize tax credits, could result in a material increase in our tax expense and impact our financial position and cash flows. For example, in response to the fiscal impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State of California enacted legislation on June 29, 2020 that would suspend the use of certain corporate research and development tax credits for a three-year period beginning in our fiscal 2021, which could result in an impact in our tax expense. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), which significantly changed prior U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business. The Tax Act includes certain new provisions that began to affect our income from foreign operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Since the beginning of fiscal 2019, the U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed regulations that 25 Table of Contents could have a material impact on our ability to claim certain tax benefits related to the Tax Act. While we continue to evaluate the potential impact on our estimated annual tax rate, certain of these regulations have not been finalized and are subject to change. As additional regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Tax Act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may materially differ from previous estimates, and those differences may materially affect our financial position. Accounting for certain of these provisions requires the exercise of significant judgment. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the Programme of Work to Develop a Concensus Solution to the Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalization of the Economy (Programme of Work) agreement by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which represents a coalition of member countries, including the United States. The Programme of Work is evaluating potential changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These changes, if enacted, by various countries in which we do business may increase our taxes in these countries. Changes to these and other areas in relation to international tax reform, including future actions taken by foreign governments in response to the Tax Act, could increase uncertainty and may adversely affect our tax rate and cash flow in future years. Our income and non-income tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may also be liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire, including future taxes payable related to the transition tax on earnings from their foreign operations, if any, under the Tax Act. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the periods for which that determination is made. In July 2017, the Hungarian Tax Authority (HTA) issued a final assessment against our Hungarian subsidiary (Synopsys Hungary) for fiscal years 2011 through 2013. The HTA has applied withholding taxes on certain payments made to affiliates, resulting in an aggregate tax assessment of approximately $25.0 million and interest and penalties of $11.0 million. We paid the tax assessments, penalties and interest in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as required by law and recorded these amounts as prepaid taxes on our balance sheet. On April 30, 2019, the Hungarian Administrative Court ruled against Synopsys Hungary. We filed an appeal with the Hungarian Supreme Court on July 5, 2019. The Hungarian Supreme Court heard our appeal on November 12, 2020 and issued a ruling from the bench to remand the case to the Hungarian Administrative Court for further proceedings. We expect to receive the Hungarian Supreme Courts written decision in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. For further discussion of the Hungary audit, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain significant deferred tax assets related to certain tax credits. Our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdiction and in the case of foreign tax credits, how such credits are treated under provisions of the Tax Act. Changes in our forecasts of future income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings that could materially affect our financial results. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, employment, customer, supplier, competition, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Further information regarding certain of these matters is contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings . Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market, and the FASB. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and other regulations, including conflict minerals regulations 26 Table of Contents affecting our hardware products, have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls and compliance programs. Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Moreover, although we have implemented compliance programs and compliance training for employees, such measures may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from breaching or circumventing our policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. Failure of our control systems and compliance programs to prevent error, fraud or violations of law could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by any deterioration of capital markets. From time to time, our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio consists of investment-grade U.S. government agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds, municipal securities and other securities, and bank deposits. Our investment portfolio carries both interest rate risk and credit risk and may be negatively impacted by the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a credit downgrade or a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall or a credit downgrade occurs. As a result of capital pressures on certain banks, especially in Europe, and the continuing low interest rate environment, some of our financial instruments may become impaired. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of investments held by us is judged to be other-than-temporary. In addition, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in the issuers credit quality or changes in interest rates. General Risks Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Due to the global nature of our business, our operating results may be negatively impacted by catastrophic events throughout the world. We rely on a global network of infrastructure applications, enterprise applications and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cybersecurity attack, terrorist attack, epidemic or pandemic (including the COVID-19 pandemic), or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers orders. In particular, our sales and infrastructure are vulnerable to regional or worldwide health conditions, including the effects of the outbreak of contagious diseases such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Our principal offices are located in two adjacent buildings in Mountain View, California, which together provide approximately 341,000 square feet of available space. This space is leased through August 2030, and we have two options to extend the lease term, the first to extend the term by ten years, followed by a second option to extend by approximately nine additional years. We also lease approximately 350,000 square feet of space in three adjacent buildings in Sunnyvale, California, which we have leased through October 2031. These buildings in Mountain View and Sunnyvale are used for research and development, sales and support, marketing, and administrative activities for both of our business segments . Additionally, we own one building in Sunnyvale, California with approximately 120,000 square feet of space that was vacated in February 2020 and is currently leased to a third party under a lease agreement that runs through February 2031. We currently lease 29 other offices throughout the United States, and own two office buildings in Oregon, one of which is leased to a third party. These offices are used primarily for sales and support activities as well as research and development for both of our business segments. International Facilities We lease additional space for sales, service, and research and development activities for both of our business segments in approximately 29 countries throughout the world, including 25,000 square feet in Dublin, Ireland for our international headquarters, as well as significant sites in Yerevan, Armenia, Bangalore, India, Shanghai and Wuhan, China. We own several buildings in Wuhan, China with approximately 551,000 square feet of combined space. In addition, we own two buildings in Hsinchu, Taiwan with approximately 212,000 square feet of combined space. Beginning on March 2021, we will lease approximately 181,000 square feet of space in Shanghai with a term of ten years, and plan to vacate our existing lease in Shanghai, China. We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased properties, are in good condition and suitable for the current conduct of our business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to routine legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. The ultimate outcome of any litigation is often uncertain and unfavorable outcomes could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on Synopsys because of the defense costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. We regularly review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount is estimable, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and as circumstances change, it is possible that the amount of any accrued liability may increase, decrease, or be eliminated. In July 2017, the HTA issued a final assessment against Synopsys' Hungarian subsidiary (Synopsys Hungary) for fiscal years 2011 through 2013. The HTA disallowed Synopsys Hungary's tax positions taken during these years regarding the timing of the deduction of research expenses and applied withholding taxes on certain payments made to affiliates, resulting in an aggregate tax assessment of approximately $44.5 million and interest and penalties of $18.0 million. On August 2, 2017, Synopsys Hungary filed a claim contesting the final assessment with the Hungarian Administrative Court (the Court). On November 16, 2017, Synopsys Hungary paid the assessment as required by law, while continuing its challenge to the assessment in court. Hearings were held in February and July 2018, February 26, 2019 and April 30, 2019. On December 10, 2018, Synopsys withdrew its claim contesting the final assessment with regard to the timing of the deduction of research expenses, resulting in a remaining disputed tax assessment of approximately $25.0 million and interest and penalties of $11.0 million. On April 30, 2019, the Court ruled against Synopsys Hungary. The Court's opinion was received on May 16, 2019. Synopsys Hungary filed an appeal with the Hungarian Supreme Court on July 5, 2019. In the second quarter of 2019, as a result of the Court's decision, we recorded a tax expense due to an unrecognized tax benefit of $17.4 million, which is net of estimated U.S. foreign tax credits for the tax assessments. The Hungarian Supreme Court heard our appeal on November 12, 2020 and issued a ruling from the bench to remand the case to the Hungarian 28 Table of Contents Administrative Court for further proceedings. We expect to receive the Hungarian Supreme Courts written decision in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. For further discussion of the Hungary audit, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Non-U.S. Examinations." Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol SNPS. As of December 10 , 2020, we had 242 stockholders of record. Performance Graph The following graph compares the five-year total return to stockholders of our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Synopsys common stock on October 31, 2015 (the last trading day before the beginning of our fifth preceding fiscal year) and in each of the indexes on October 31, 2015 (the closest month end) and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends were declared on our common stock during such time. The comparisons in the table are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* *$100 invested on October 31, 2015 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 30 Table of Contents The information presented above in the stock performance graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, except to the extent that we subsequently specifically request that such information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or Exchange Act. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors (Board) previously approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we were authorized to purchase up to $500.0 million of our common stock, and has periodically replenished the stock repurchase program to such amount. Our Board replenished the stock repurchase program up to $500.0 million on June 19, 2020. The program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the program may be suspended or terminated at any time by our Chief Financial Officer or our Board. We repurchase shares to offset dilution caused by ongoing stock issuances from existing equity plans for equity compensation awards and issuances related to acquisitions, and when management believes it is a good use of cash. Repurchases are transacted in accordance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) and may be made through any means including, but not limited to, open market purchases, plans executed under Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and structured transactions. As of October 31, 2020 , $457.9 million remained available for future repurchases under the program. In December 2019, we entered an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the December 2019 ASR) to repurchase an aggregate of $100.0 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the December 2019 ASR, we made a prepayment of $100.0 million to receive initial share deliveries of shares valued at $80.0 million. The remaining balance of $20.0 million was settled in February 2020. Total shares purchased under the December 2019 ASR were approximately 0.7 million shares, at an average purchase price of $149.75 per share. In February 2020, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the February 2020 ASR) to repurchase an aggregate of $100.0 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the February 2020 ASR, we made a prepayment of $100.0 million to receive initial share deliveries of shares valued at $80.0 million. The remaining balance of $20.0 million was settled in May 2020. Total shares purchased under the February 2020 ASR were approximately 0.7 million shares, at an average purchase price of $140.41 per share. The table below sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended October 31, 2020 : Period Total number of shares purchased (1) Average price paid per share (1) Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs Maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the programs Month #1 August 2, 2020 through September 5, 2020 2,178 $ 229.50 2,178 $ 499,500,159 Month #2 September 6, 2020 through October 3, 2020 178,918 $ 203.88 178,918 $ 463,022,956 Month #3 October 4, 2020 through October 31, 2020 23,641 $ 215.75 23,641 $ 457,922,451 Total 204,737 $ 205.52 204,737 $ 457,922,451 (1) Amounts are calculated based on the settlement date. 31 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Fiscal Year Ended October 31,(1) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenue $ 3,685,281 $ 3,360,694 $ 3,121,058 $ 2,724,880 $ 2,422,532 Income before provisions for income taxes 638,159 545,506 363,543 383,098 329,548 Provision (benefit) for income taxes(2) (25,288 ) 13,139 (68,975 ) 246,535 62,722 Net income 663,447 532,367 432,518 136,563 266,826 Net income (loss) attributed to non-controlling interest (900 ) Net income attributed to Synopsys 664,347 532,367 432,518 136,563 266,826 Net income per share: Basic 4.40 3.55 2.90 0.91 1.76 Diluted 4.27 3.45 2.82 0.88 1.73 Working capital (deficit) 409,295 (13,536 ) (558,618 ) 68,484 1,992 Total assets 8,030,062 6,405,160 6,145,974 5,396,414 5,240,365 Long-term debt 100,823 120,093 125,535 134,063 Stockholders equity 4,912,367 4,088,876 3,485,015 3,279,724 3,195,146 (1) Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2018 was a 53-week year and ended on November 3, 2018. Fiscal 2020 , 2019, 2017 , and 2016 were 52-week years ending on October 31, 2020, November 2, 2019, October 28, 2017 and October 29, 2016, respectively. (2) Includes $13.2 million , $10.9 million , $14.7 million , $7.1 million , and $16.5 million in net tax benefits from tax settlements received in fiscal 2020 , 2019 , 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. Fiscal 2018 additionally includes a $57.8 million net benefit from tax reform and tax restructuring. Fiscal 2017 additionally includes a $166.2 million expense from our repatriation of foreign earnings. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview The following overview of our financial condition and results of operations is qualified in its entirety by the more complete discussion contained in this Item 7, the risk factors set forth in Item 1A of this Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto set forth in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Please also see the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Summary Synopsys, Inc. provides products and services used across the entire Silicon to Software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to product teams developing advanced electronic systems to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers 32 Table of Contents develop advanced chips and electronic systems. These products and services are part of our Semiconductor & System Design segment. We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the security, quality and compliance of software in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. These tools and services are part of our Software Integrity segment. Our EDA and IP customers are generally semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our solutions help these companies overcome the challenges of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while also helping them reduce their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, our sales could be affected based on their research and development budgets, and our customers' spending decisions may be affected by their business outlook and willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. Our Software Integrity business delivers products and services that enable software developers to test their code - while it is being written - for known security vulnerabilities and quality defects, as well as testing for open source security vulnerabilities and license compliance. Our Software Integrity customers are software developers across many industries, including, but also well beyond, the semiconductor and systems industries. Our Software Integrity products and services form a platform that helps our customers build security into the software development lifecycle and across the entire cyber supply chain. We have consistently grown our revenue since 2005, despite periods of global economic uncertainty. We achieved these results because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, and because we recognize our revenue for software licenses over the arrangement period, which typically approximates three years. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion on our revenue recognition policy . The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. As a result, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on maintaining and building on our leadership in our EDA products, expanding and proliferating our IP offerings, driving growth in the software security and quality market, and continuing to expand our product portfolio and our total addressable market. In addition, due to our adoption of Accounting Standard Codification 606 (ASC 606), "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", in the beginning of fiscal 2019, the way in which we are required to account for certain types of arrangements has increased the variability in our total revenue from period to period. Nevertheless, the accounting impact has not affected the cash generated from our business. Based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy, we believe that we will continue to execute our strategies successfully. COVID-19 Pandemic While the COVID-19 pandemic has changed the physical working environment of the substantial majority of our workforce to working from home, it has otherwise caused only minor disruptions to our business operations with a limited impact on our operating results thus far. Given the unpredictable nature of the COVID-19 pandemics impact on the global economy, our historical results may not be an indication of future performance. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business operations in future periods will depend on multiple uncertain factors, including the duration and scope of the pandemic, its overall negative impact on the global economy generally and the semiconductor and electronics industries specifically, and continued responses by governments and businesses to COVID-19. We have not identified trends that we expect will materially impact our future operating results at this time. As we recognize our revenue for software licenses over the arrangement period, any potential impact related to COVID-19 may be delayed. We have not observed any changes in the design activity of customers, but we experienced a slowdown in customer commitments in our Software Integrity segment. We have not received any significant requests from our customers to either delay payments or modify arrangements due to COVID-19. However, this situation could change in future periods and the extent that these requests may impact our business is uncertain. We have also experienced minor disruptions in our hardware supply chain, which we have been able to address with minimal impact to our business operations to date. We will continue to consider the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations. Although no material impairment or other effects have been identified to date related to the COVID-19 pandemic, there is substantial uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. That uncertainty affects 33 Table of Contents managements accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result in greater variability in a variety of areas that depend on these estimates and assumptions as additional events and information become known. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial condition. Business Segments Semiconductor & System Design. This segment includes our advanced silicon design, verification products and services, and semiconductor IP portfolio, which encompasses products and services that serve companies primarily in the semiconductor and electronics industries. EDA includes digital, custom and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) IC design software, verification products, and manufacturing software products. Designers use these products to automate the highly complex IC design process and to reduce defects that could lead to expensive design or manufacturing re-spins or suboptimal end products. For IP, we are a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for system-on-chips (SoCs). This includes IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, internet of things, and cloud computing markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas. Software Integrity. This segment includes a broad portfolio of products and services such as leading quality testing technologies, automated analysis, and consulting experts. Beginning in fiscal 2019, we launched the Polaris Software Integrity Platform , an integrated cloud-based solution that unites key elements to provide an even more valuable way for developers to better develop personalized approaches for open source license compliance and detect and remediate known security vulnerabilities and quality defects early in the development process, thereby minimizing risk and maximizing productivity. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2018 was a 53-week year and ended on November 3, 2018 . Fiscal 2020 and 2019 were 52-week years ending on October 31, 2020 and November 2, 2019 , respectively. Fiscal 2021 will be a 52-week year. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-K refers to the closest calendar month end. Fiscal 2020 Financial Performance Summary In fiscal 2020 , compared to fiscal 2019 , our financial performance reflects the following: Revenues were $3.7 billion , an increase of $324.6 million or 10% , primarily due to our continued organic growth; Total cost of revenue and operating expenses were $3.1 billion , an increase of $224.8 million or 8% , primarily due to increases in employee-related costs of $193.4 million, resulting from headcount increases through organic growth and acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring costs of $11.1 million; Operating income of $620.1 million , an increase of $99.9 million or 19% . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under Results of Operations below are based on our audited results of operations, which we have prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our significant accounting policies. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; 34 Table of Contents Valuation of business combinations; and Income taxes. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether services and products are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. We have concluded that our EDA software licenses in Time-based Subscription License (TSL) contracts are not distinct from our obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because those promises represent inputs to a single, combined performance obligation. Where unspecified additional software product rights are part of the contract with the customer, those rights are accounted for as part of the single performance obligation that includes the licenses, updates, and technical support, because such rights are provided during the same period of time and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our obligation to customers which is to provide an ongoing right to use the most up to date and relevant software. As EDA customers operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment, satisfying the obligation requires providing critical updates to the existing software products, including ongoing iterative interaction with customers to make the software relevant to the customers ability to meet the time to go to market with advanced products. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions with respect to intangible assets. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; the expected use of the acquired assets; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management must make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the current provision for income taxes take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. We have established reserves for income taxes to address potential exposures involving tax positions that could be challenged by tax authorities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from such examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, the final determination of any of these examinations could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. 35 Table of Contents Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations We adopted new revenue guidance, ASC 606, at the beginning of fiscal 2019 under the modified retrospective method which has limited the comparability of prior year results in revenue and commission expense. The comparative information for periods prior to fiscal 2019 has not been restated. Revenue Our revenues are generated from two business segments: the Semiconductor & System Design segment and the Software Integrity segment. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our reportable segments and revenue by geographic regions. Further disaggregation of the revenues into various products and services within these two segments is summarized as follows: Semiconductor & System Design Segment This segment is comprised of the following: EDA software includes digital, custom and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) IC design software, verification products and obligations to provide unspecified updates and support services. EDA products and services are typically sold through TSL arrangements that grant customers the right to access and use all of the licensed products at the outset of an arrangement and software updates are generally made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. The weighted-average term of the TSLs we entered into in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018 were approximately three years, respectively. Under ASC 606, we have concluded that the software licenses in TSL contracts are not distinct from the obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because the multiple software licenses represent inputs to a single, combined offering, and timely, relevant software updates are integral to maintaining the utility of the software licenses. We recognize revenue for the combined performance obligation under TSL contracts ratably over the term of the license. IP & System Integration includes our DesignWare IP portfolio and system-level products and services. Under ASC 606, these arrangements generally have two performance obligations which consist of transferring of the licensed IP and providing related support, which includes rights to technical support and software updates that are provided over the support term and are transferred to the customer over time. Revenue allocated to the IP licenses is recognized at a point in time upon the later of the delivery date or the beginning of the license period, and revenue allocated to support is recognized over the support term. Royalties are recognized as revenue in the quarter in which the applicable customer sells its products that incorporate our IP. Payments for IP contracts are generally received upon delivery of the IP. Revenue related to the customization of certain IP is recognized as Professional Services. In the case of arrangements involving the sale of Hardware products, we generally have two performance obligations. The first performance obligation is to transfer the hardware product, which includes software integral to the functionality of the hardware product. The second performance obligation is to provide maintenance on the hardware and its embedded software, which includes rights to technical support, hardware repairs and software updates that are all provided over the same term and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the hardware product is generally recognized as revenue at the time of shipment because the customer obtains control of the product at that point in time. We have concluded that control generally transfers at that point in time because the customer has the ability to direct the use of the asset and an obligation to pay for the hardware. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the maintenance obligation is recognized as revenue ratably over the maintenance term. Revenue from Professional Service contracts is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. We have a history of reasonably estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect these estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. 36 Table of Contents Software Integrity Segment We sell Software Integrity products in arrangements that provide customers the right to software licenses, maintenance updates and technical support. Over the term of these arrangements, the customer expects us to provide integral maintenance updates to the software licenses, which help customers protect their own software from new critical quality defects and potential security vulnerabilities. The licenses and maintenance updates serve together to fulfill our commitment to the customer as both work together to provide functionality to the customer and represent a combined performance obligation. We recognize revenue for the combined performance obligation over the term of the arrangement. Most of our customer arrangements involve hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in highly competitive markets. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Semiconductor & System Design Segment $ 3,327.2 $ 3,026.1 $ 2,840.6 $ 301.1 10 % $ 185.5 7 % Software Integrity Segment 358.1 334.6 280.5 23.5 7 % 54.1 19 % Total $ 3,685.3 $ 3,360.7 $ 3,121.1 $ 324.6 10 % $ 239.6 8 % The overall growth of our business has been the primary driver of the increase in our revenue. Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements including the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience fluctuations in our revenue due to factors such as the timing of IP product sales, consulting projects, Flexible Spending Account (FSA) drawdowns, royalties, and hardware sales. As revenue from IP products sales and hardware sales are recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such IP products and hardware have resulted in increased variability of our total revenue. The increase in total revenue for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to the continued organic growth of the business in time-based and upfront IP license products, and higher maintenance and service revenue. The increase in total revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to the continued business growth in all product categories, and higher revenue of $102.5 million recognized under new revenue standard ASC 606 compared with revenue recognized under old revenue standard ASC 605. The increase was partially offset by approximately $46.0 million of additional revenue due to one extra week in fiscal 2018. For a discussion of revenue by geographic areas, see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Time-Based Products Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) $ 2,365.2 $ 2,198.0 $ 2,303.3 $ 167.2 8 % $ (105.3 ) (5 )% Percentage of total revenue 64 % 65 % 74 % The increase in time-based products revenue for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. 37 Table of Contents The decrease in time-based products revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to the impact of lower revenue recognized under ASC 606 of $206.9 million offset by an increase in TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. Upfront Products Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) $ 735.6 $ 619.8 $ 357.7 $ 115.8 19 % $ 262.1 73 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 18 % 11 % Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in the extent and timing of customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The increase in upfront products revenue for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the sale of IP products driven by higher demand from customers. The increase in upfront products revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the sale of IP products driven by higher demand from customers and higher IP revenue recognized upfront under ASC 606 of $235.4 million . Upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate based on the timing of IP products and hardware sales. Such fluctuations will continue to be impacted by the timing of shipments due to customer requirements. Maintenance and Service Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Maintenance revenue $ 177.4 $ 179.0 $ 100.4 $ (1.6 ) (1 )% $ 78.6 78 % Professional service and other revenue 407.1 363.9 359.6 43.2 12 % 4.3 1 % Total $ 584.5 $ 542.9 $ 460.0 $ 41.6 8 % $ 82.9 18 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 17 % 15 % Maintenance revenue for fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to a decrease in the volume and type of arrangements that include maintenance. The increase in maintenance revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue under ASC 606 of $74.0 million and an increase in the volume of arrangements that include maintenance. The increase in professional services and other revenue for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the volume of IP consulting projects and the timing of IP consulting projects . The increase in professional services and other revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the timing of IP consulting projects. The increase was offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2018. 38 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Cost of revenue $ 794.7 $ 752.9 $ 735.9 $ 41.8 6 % $ 17.0 2 % Operating expenses 2,270.5 2,087.5 2,024.9 183.0 9 % 62.6 3 % Total $ 3,065.2 $ 2,840.4 $ 2,760.8 $ 224.8 8 % $ 79.6 3 % Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue 83 % 85 % 88 % Our expenses are generally impacted by changes in personnel-related costs including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and variable compensation; changes in amortization; changes in hardware related direct costs; and changes in selling and marketing expenses. The increase in our expenses compared to prior fiscal years was primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs, driven by increased headcount from our overall growth, and fixed charges including information technology (IT) and facilities. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, did not have a significant impact on expenses during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 , or fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018 . See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our foreign exchange hedging programs. Cost of Revenue Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Cost of products revenue $ 487.3 $ 459.1 $ 448.4 $ 28.2 6 % $ 10.7 2 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 254.9 234.2 203.5 20.7 9 % 30.7 15 % Amortization of intangible assets 52.5 59.6 84.0 (7.1 ) (12 )% (24.4 ) (29 )% Total $ 794.7 $ 752.9 $ 735.9 $ 41.8 6 % $ 17.0 2 % Percentage of total revenue 22 % 22 % 24 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of products revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of products revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on products and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, hardware related direct costs, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that had reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and costs to deliver our consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. We expect our cost of maintenance and service revenue to increase in future periods because of recent acquisitions, but we do not expect the impact to be material to our total cost of revenue. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete related to acquisitions and certain contract rights related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to increases of $25.6 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases from organic hiring and acquisitions, $16.1 39 Table of Contents million in consulting costs primarily related to servicing IP consulting arrangements, $5.1 million in depreciation and maintenance expenses, and $2.8 million in hardware related direct costs, partially offset by a decrease of $7.1 million in amortization of intangible assets. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase of $21.5 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases from organic hiring, $11.3 million in consulting costs primarily related to servicing IP consulting arrangements, $10.1 million in IT and facility expenses, and $5.3 million in depreciation and maintenance expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $24.4 million in amortization of intangible assets and one additional week of expenses of approximately $4.5 million in fiscal 2018. Changes in other cost of revenue categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Operating Expenses Research and Development Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) $ 1,279.0 $ 1,136.9 $ 1,084.8 $ 142.1 12 % $ 52.1 5 % Percentage of total revenue 35 % 34 % 35 % The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to increases of $124.5 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions, $14.8 million in facility expenses, and $6.6 million in consultants and contractor costs, partially offset by lower deferred compensation expenses of $4.5 million . The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increases of $41.5 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including organic hiring and those from prior year acquisitions, $22.8 million in IT and facility expenses, and $5.5 million in consultants and contractor costs, partially offset by an additional week of expenses of approximately $19.3 million in fiscal 2018. Changes in other research and development expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Sales and Marketing Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) $ 632.0 $ 632.9 $ 623.0 $ (0.9 ) % $ 9.9 2 % Percentage of total revenue 17 % 19 % 20 % Sales and marketing expenses remained relatively flat for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to a decrease of $19.5 million that included reduced travel and marketing expenses as a result of COVID-19 restrictions, partially offset by an increase in personnel-related costs of $19.1 million. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increases of $11.3 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases and $4.3 million in IT and facility expenses, partially offset by an additional week of expenses of approximately $5.8 million in fiscal 2018. For fiscal 2019, commission expenses were $4.1 million lower compared to commission expenses for fiscal 2018 which was accounted for under ASC 605. Changes in other sales and marketing expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. 40 Table of Contents General and Administrative Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) $ 284.5 $ 229.2 $ 262.6 $ 55.3 24 % $ (33.4 ) (13 )% Percentage of total revenue 8 % 7 % 8 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase of $24.2 million in personnel-related expenses, a legal settlement of $18.3 million in our favor in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and an increase of $13.1 million in depreciation and maintenance expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $1.6 million in professional service costs. The decrease in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a $26.0 million litigation settlement in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, a legal settlement of $18.3 million in our favor in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and an additional week of expenses of approximately $4.1 million in fiscal 2018. The decreases were partially offset by a $7.1 million increase in personnel-related costs. Changes in other general and administrative expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Change in Fair Value of Deferred Compensation The income or loss arising from the change in fair value of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan obligation is recorded in cost of sales and each functional operating expense, with the offsetting change in the fair value of the related assets recorded in other income (expense), net. These assets are classified as trading securities. There is no impact to our net income from the fair value changes in our deferred compensation plan obligation and asset. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization of contract rights and the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, and in-process research and development related to acquisitions completed in prior years. Amortization expense is included in the consolidated statements of operations as follows: Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Included in cost of revenue $ 52.5 $ 59.6 $ 84.0 $ (7.1 ) (12 )% $ (24.4 ) (29 )% Included in operating expenses 38.8 41.3 41.6 (2.5 ) (6 )% (0.3 ) (1 )% Total $ 91.3 $ 100.9 $ 125.6 $ (9.6 ) (10 )% $ (24.7 ) (20 )% Percentage of total revenue 2 % 3 % 4 % The decrease in amortization of intangible assets for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to intangible assets that were fully amortized, partially offset by additions of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2020 . The decrease in amortization of intangible assets for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to intangible assets that were fully amortized, partially offset by additions of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2019. Restructuring Charges In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our management approved, committed and initiated a restructuring plan (the Plan) as part of a business reorganization. Total charges under the Plan consisted primarily of severance, termination, and retirement benefits under the 2019 Voluntary Retirement Program (VRP). 41 Table of Contents The following is a summary of our restructuring activities: Fiscal Year Balance at Beginning of Period Costs Incurred Cash Payments Balance at End of Period (in millions) 2020 $ 22.6 $ 36.1 $ (57.4 ) $ 1.3 2019 $ 8.1 $ 47.2 $ (32.7 ) $ 22.6 2018 $ 17.5 $ 12.7 $ (22.1 ) $ 8.1 See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information . Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Interest income $ 3.6 $ 6.9 $ 5.3 $ (3.3 ) (48 )% $ 1.6 30 % Interest expense (5.1 ) (11.7 ) (15.6 ) 6.6 (56 )% 3.9 (25 )% Gain (loss) on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan 21.5 27.8 4.6 (6.3 ) (23 )% 23.2 504 % Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 5.5 3.6 3.6 1.9 53 % % Other, net (7.5 ) (1.3 ) 5.4 (6.2 ) 477 % (6.7 ) (124 )% Total $ 18.0 $ 25.3 $ 3.3 $ (7.3 ) (29 )% $ 22.0 667 % The net decrease in other income (expense) for fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to changes in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, partially offset by lower interest expenses due to a lower debt balance. The net increase in other income (expense) in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018 was also primarily due to changes in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Segment Operating Results We do not allocate certain operating expenses managed at a consolidated level to our reportable segments. These unallocated expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, litigation and acquisition-related costs. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Semiconductor & System Design Segment Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Adjusted operating income $ 990.8 $ 806.6 $ 701.3 $ 184.2 23 % $ 105.3 15 % Adjusted operating margin 30 % 27 % 25 % 3 % 11 % 2 % 8 % The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue recognized under ASC 606 of $97.5 million and an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods, partially offset by approximately $12.0 million due to an additional week of operating income in fiscal 2018. 42 Table of Contents Software Integrity Segment Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Adjusted operating income $ 40.8 $ 32.2 $ (10.6 ) $ 8.6 27 % $ 42.8 (404 )% Adjusted operating margin 11 % 10 % (4 )% 1 % 10 % 14 % (350 )% The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods and the impact of higher revenue recognized under ASC 606 of $5.0 million. Income Taxes The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), enacted on December 22, 2017, lowered the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018. Beginning in fiscal 2019, our annual statutory federal corporate tax rate is 21%. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was (4.0%), which included a tax benefit of $39.2 million of U.S. federal research tax credit, a foreign derived intangible income (FDII) deduction of $24.3 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $72.3 million. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was 2.4%, which included a tax benefit of $28.1 million related to the realizability of U.S. foreign tax credits related to the transfer of intangibles associated with the tax restructuring in fiscal 2018, a U.S. federal research tax credit of $34.5 million, a FDII deduction of $26.6 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $40.5 million. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was (19.0%), which included a tax benefit of $172.0 million relating to the restructuring of our foreign intellectual property rights, a U.S. federal research tax credit of $35.1 million, a tax benefit of $28.1 million arising from a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in fiscal 2017, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $31.0 million. These benefits were partially offset by tax expense of $63.1 million for a one-time transition tax on foreign earnings, $51.1 million due to re-measurement of U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act, and tax expense related to the integration of acquired technologies of $27.9 million. The integration of acquired technologies represents the income tax effect resulting from the transfer of certain intangible assets among company-controlled entities. These intangible assets generally result from the acquisition of technology by a company-controlled entity as part of a business or asset acquisition. The Tax Act required us to pay a one-time transition tax on previously untaxed earnings represented by foreign cash and certain other net current assets, and 8% on the remaining earnings. In fiscal 2018, we recorded a tax expense of $63.1 million. Based on subsequent judicial rulings in fiscal 2019 (including Altera Corp. et al. v. Commissioner and the Hungarian Administrative Court ruling), we recorded a tax benefit of $17.9 million related to the one-time transition tax. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Tax Act includes certain new tax provisions listed below which apply to us beginning in fiscal 2019. A tax on global intangible low-tax income (GILTI), which is determined annually based on our aggregate foreign subsidiaries' income in excess of certain qualified business asset investment return. In fiscal 2019, we adopted an accounting policy to account for the tax effects of GILTI in the period that it is subject to such tax. A base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT), which functions as a minimum tax that partially disallows deductions for certain related party transactions and certain tax credits. A special tax deduction for FDII, which, in general, allows a deduction of certain intangible income earned in the U.S. and derived from foreign sources. 43 Table of Contents The Tax Act also provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In July 2017, the Hungarian Tax Authority (the HTA) issued a final assessment against our Hungarian subsidiary (Synopsys Hungary) for fiscal years 2011 through 2013. The HTA applied withholding taxes on certain payments made to affiliates, resulting in an aggregate tax assessment of approximately $25.0 million and interest and penalties of $11.0 million. We paid the tax assessments, penalties and interest in the first quarter of 2018 as required by law and recorded these amounts as prepaid taxes on our balance sheet. On April 30, 2019, the Hungarian Administrative Court ruled against Synopsys Hungary. We filed an appeal with the Hungarian Supreme Court on July 5, 2019. In the second quarter of 2019, as a result of the Court's decision, we recorded a tax expense due to an unrecognized tax benefit of $17.4 million, which is net of estimated U.S. foreign tax credits for the tax assessments. The Hungarian Supreme Court heard our appeal on November 12, 2020 and issued a ruling from the bench to remand the case to the Hungarian Administrative Court for further proceedings. We expect to receive the Hungarian Supreme Courts written decision in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the provision for income taxes, the impacts related to the Tax Act, and the Hungarian audit . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash and cash equivalents are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. We have considered the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our liquidity and capital resources. Although we have not observed any material effects on our liquidity, collections from customers or other working capital requirements due to the COVID-19 pandemic to date, there is substantial uncertainty that could result in greater variability as additional events and information become known. We believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, share repurchases, acquisitions, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations . We are continuously evaluating the COVID-19 pandemics effects and taking steps to mitigate known risks, including potential constraints on our liquidity and capital resources as a result of customers reduced expenditures or disruptions to our supply chain. In light of that ongoing assessment, we may choose to temporarily defer certain expenditures due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. As of October 31, 2020 , we held an aggregate of $590.0 million in cash and cash equivalents in the United States and an aggregate of $645.7 million in our foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Act provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. The following sections discuss changes in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of cash flow, and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during fiscal 2020 . Cash and Cash Equivalents Year Ended October 31, $ Change % Change 2020 2019 (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,235.7 $ 728.6 $ 507.1 70 % Cash and cash equivalents increased primarily due to cash from our operations and net proceeds from our credit facilities. The increase in cash and cash equivalents was partially offset by stock repurchases, repayment of debt, cash used for acquisition, and purchases of property and equipment. 44 Table of Contents Cash Flows Year Ended October 31, $ Change $ Change 2020 2019 2018 2019 to 2020 2018 to 2019 (dollars in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 991.3 $ 800.5 $ 424.4 $ 190.8 $ 376.1 Cash used in investing activities $ (360.4 ) $ (235.9 ) $ (743.5 ) $ (124.5 ) $ 507.6 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (140.6 ) $ (561.9 ) $ 5.1 $ 421.3 $ (567.0 ) Cash Provided by Operating Activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. Fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by higher net income, higher cash collections and lower disbursements in operations, including timing of vendor payments and other employee related expenses. Fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by higher net income and higher cash collections, partially offset by higher disbursements for operations, including vendor payments. Cash Used in Investing Activities Fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to higher cash paid for acquisitions of $164.4 million. Fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by higher cash paid for acquisitions in fiscal 2018 of $616.0 million. Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower debt repayments of $235.2 million and higher proceeds of $83.6 million from credit facilities drawdowns. Fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Cash used in financing activities was higher primarily due to higher debt repayments of $228.8 million and lower proceeds from credit facilities drawdowns of $427.7 million. Accounts Receivable, net Year Ended October 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Accounts receivable, net $ 780.7 $ 553.9 $ 226.8 41 % Changes in our accounts receivable balance are primarily driven by the timing and volume of customer billing and collection activities. Working Capital Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our consolidated balance sheets: 45 Table of Contents Year Ended October 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 2,549.2 $ 1,738.9 $ 810.3 47 % Current liabilities 2,139.9 1,752.5 387.4 22 % Working capital (deficit) $ 409.3 $ (13.6 ) $ 422.9 (3,110 )% Increases in our working capital were primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $507.1 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $226.8 million , partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $175.8 million and an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $117.2 million . We did not see a significant impact on our working capital during this period from the COVID-19 pandemic. Other Commitments Credit and Term Loan Facilities As of October 31, 2020 , we had $102.1 million outstanding balance, net of debt issuance costs, under the Term Loan, of which $75.0 million was classified as long-term liabilities. Outstanding principal payments under the Term Loan are due as follows: Fiscal year (in thousands) 2021 $ 27,187 2022 75,000 Total $ 102,187 As of October 31, 2019 , we had a $119.8 million outstanding balance, net of debt issuance costs, under the Term Loan, of which $102.2 million was classified as long-term liabilities. There was no outstanding balance under the Revolver as of October 31, 2020 and October 31, 2019 . We expect our borrowings under the Revolver will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our Term Loan and Revolver borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. As of October 31, 2020 , borrowings under the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR +1.125% and the applicable interest rate for the Revolver was LIBOR +1.000% . In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.125% and 0.200% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. In July 2018, we entered into a 12-year 220.0 million RMB (approximately $33.0 million) credit agreement with a lender in China to support our facilities expansion. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on the 5 year Loan Prime Rate plus 0.74%. As of October 31, 2020 , we had $25.8 million outstanding under the agreement. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other As of October 31, 2020 , our cash equivalents consisted of taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. We proactively manage our cash equivalents balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents, invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 6 and 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and available credit under our Revolver will satisfy our routine business requirements for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. 46 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations as of October 31, 2020 are as follows: Total Fiscal 2021 Fiscal 2022/ Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2024/ Fiscal 2025 Thereafter Other (in thousands) Lease Obligations: Operating Leases (1) $ 659,559 $ 87,592 $ 155,057 $ 125,958 $ 290,952 $ Purchase Obligations (2) 420,585 273,101 147,484 Term Loan (3) 102,187 27,187 75,000 Other Obligations (4) 26,778 26,778 Long term accrued income taxes (5) 25,178 25,178 Total $ 1,234,287 $ 414,658 $ 377,541 $ 125,958 $ 290,952 $ 25,178 (1) See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . (2) Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business for which we have not received the goods or services as of October 31, 2020 . Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. (3) These commitments relate to the principal of the Term Loan and a credit facility as discussed in Other Commitments above. (4) These other obligations include fees associated with our credit facility. (5) Long-term accrued income taxes represent uncertain tax benefits as of October 31, 2020 . Currently, a reasonably reliable estimate of timing of payments related to uncertain tax benefits in individual years beyond fiscal 2020 cannot be made due to uncertainties in timing of the commencement and settlement of potential tax audits. The expected timing of payments of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payment and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2020 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.