Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We typically license Synopsys IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Our hardware products, which principally consist of our prototyping and emulation systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Risks related to disruptions in our supply chain affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . 10 Table of Contents Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project. Competition The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customers buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Siemens EDA. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers internally developed design tools and capabilities. Within our Semiconductor & System Design segment, Synopsys also competes against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, features, availability of titles for new manufacturing processes, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. Our Software Integrity segment competes with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. For example, competitors named in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing include Checkmarx Ltd., Veracode, Inc. and Micro Focus International plc (now a part of Open Text Corporation). Risks related to competitive factors affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Proprietary Rights We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,400 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2041. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. While protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license. In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Corporate Social Responsibility at Synopsys Sustainable, just and secure business practices are at the core of who we are as a company and influence our behavior as individuals. Our "Smart Future" Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy provides a framework for how we manage our own operational impact, so that we can conduct business in a manner that we believe both drives commercial success and contributes to a better world. Through CSR, we are taking action on important Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters to build a more sustainable business, including initiatives to procure more renewable energy and to reduce our operational footprint, as well as driving a culture of inclusion and diversity throughout our workforce and on our Board of Directors. We aim to influence positive social and environmental change across our ecosystem by applying our resources, competencies, and team-based problem-solving approach. Our technology is in action in countless ways, from bringing safety and security to the driverless car revolution to enabling the technologies that are an 11 Table of Contents increasingly vital component of protecting human health and well-being. As the role of computing increases exponentially, the Internet of things (IoT), 5G and machine learning applications risk driving similarly exponential energy consumption and carbon emissions. This makes our work to enable low-power computing at the device level and in the cloud especially critical to the industrys sustainability. Additional information about our approach to CSR and ESG issues is available on our CSR website, including our Environmental Policy, our CSR Report, and our CDP Climate Change Questionnaire. The contents of our website, CSR Report and CDP Climate Change Questionnaire are referenced for general information only and are not incorporated into this Form 10-K. Human Capital Resources At Synopsys, we are helping our employees pursue their passion and make their mark on the world of Smart Everything. We believe this creates value for us, our stockholders, and the lives of the people we impact every day. Our commitment to attracting, developing and retaining the brightest and best talent makes this goal possible. As of our fiscal year-end, Synopsys had approximately 19,000 employees, with approximately 26% in the United States and 74% in other locations around the world. Approximately 80% of our employees are engineers, and over half of those employees hold Masters or PhD degrees. The human capital measures and objectives that we focus on include employee health, safety and wellbeing, talent acquisition and retention, employee engagement, development and training, inclusion and diversity, and compensation and pay equity. Risks related to our human capital are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Health, Safety and Wellbeing The health and safety of our employees and their families remains a top priority. In fiscal 2022, we held employee vaccination clinics in our offices and as the year progressed our focus shifted from supporting our employees during a pandemic to helping them thrive in the new hybrid work environment. With employee wellness at the forefront of our efforts, we provided our employees with a variety of benefits and resources to address the inherent challenges of working remotely, transitioning to a hybrid work environment, or returning to the office full-time. This included a focus on building skills to navigate a hybrid work environment in a way that enables employees to be successful at work and in their personal lives. We also continued our Stronger Through Wellbeing campaign, focused on the importance of employees prioritizing their health and overall wellbeing. As part of this campaign, employees were encouraged to participate in four global recharge days which were designed to help them unplug and unwind. Recruitment and Retention Our workforce is representative of the industry we serve. In fiscal 2022, we increased our employee headcount by approximately 16%, with a continued focus on increasing the number of women in technical positions and ensuring a vibrant talent pipeline with early career hiring and investment in training and development. As with many other companies in the technology industry, we experienced an increase in total employee turnover in fiscal 2022. As of our fiscal year-end, our undesired turnover rate was 6.9%. We calculate undesired turnover rate by dividing the number of undesired exits from Synopsys by the average headcount for fiscal 2022, and we define undesired turnover as exits by high-performing employees who resigned from Synopsys (or its subsidiaries) to pursue other work opportunities. Undesired turnover does not include employees with low performance or whose resignation was mutual or due to personal reasons, such as retirement and returning to school. We attribute the strong retention of our talented workforce to a number of factors, including exciting and challenging assignments, strong leadership and management, a culture of integrity, the opportunity to learn new skills and advance careers, our commitment to inclusion and diversity, and the strength of our technology and customer relationships, along with competitive and equitable total rewards. Inclusion and Diversity Inclusion and diversity run through our corporate values at every levelfrom our foundation of integrity to our execution excellence, from our dedicated leadership to our united passion for a better tomorrow. We have always strived to be a company where different perspectives and backgrounds are celebrated, which we believe helps make Synopsys stronger. We care deeply about the diversity of our teams, talent pipelines and pay and development programs, with a goal to ensure inclusive, equitable practices. We carefully study retention trends and feedback from diverse groups to identify areas where we can improve. 12 Table of Contents In fiscal 2022, we continued to increase the representation of women in our workforce globally and increased representation of Black, Latinx and Indigenous individuals in our U.S. employee base. As of our fiscal year-end: Women comprised 24.9% of our global organization; Women in senior level positions comprised 12.4% of all senior level positions at the company; and U.S. Black, Latinx, and Indigenous persons comprised 5.8% of our U.S. workforce. We provide leadership training designed to promote inclusion and diversity in attracting, retaining and developing our workforce. In addition, the employee resource groups continue to meet regularly, host events and implement actions to attract diverse talent and foster an inclusive workplace. In fiscal 2022, we added workforce metrics such as diversity, employee retention and leadership succession planning as performance criteria that are considered by our Compensation and Organizational Development Committee when establishing incentive goals for our executive officers. This reinforces that inclusion and diversity are a key part of our culture and amplifies the importance of executive involvement to advance our progress. Total Rewards To ensure a compelling total rewards philosophy, we have practices in place to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance. We benchmark market practices and regularly review our compensation against the market to ensure it remains competitive. We also offer a comprehensive and tailored set of benefits for employees and their families, providing protection from unexpected losses or medical expenses. Our compensation and benefit programs are tailored to the various geographies in which we operate, and for eligible employees, may include: Market-competitive salary and cash bonus opportunity; Robust medical, dental, vision, and wellness benefits; Financial planning tools and employee assistance plans; Comprehensive leave alternatives; Employee Stock Purchase Plan; Equity compensation for eligible employees; Life insurance options; Retirement plans and associated benefits; Student loan repayment assistance; and Parental resources and adoption benefits. Employee Engagement We use employee feedback to drive and improve processes that support our customers and ensure a deep understanding of our culture and vision among our employees. Through our semi-annual SHAPE Synopsys surveys, we obtain employee insights on our values, manager effectiveness, ability to innovate, perceptions on inclusion and diversity, and other critical factors. By inviting employees to share their experiences, we create space for important conversations about who we are, where we are going, and how we can connect with each other and our work. At mid-year fiscal 2022, approximately 90% of our employee population participated in the SHAPE survey. Results showed our global workforce to be highly engaged, with our overall score outpacing the industry engagement benchmark. We saw strong scores from our people regarding their connection to our culture, their personal investment in Synopsys strategies and objectives, and their teams ability to innovate. As we grow, we aspire to maintain our results-oriented culture by balancing productivity with smart investments in our peoples development, while also supporting individual wellbeing. 13 Table of Contents Ongoing performance feedback encourages greater engagement in our business and improved individual performance. Each year, our employees participate in our performance development process that summarizes key accomplishments for the preceding year, establishes new stretch goals, and identifies critical capabilities for development. As part of this process, we encourage managers to solicit and share supportive multi-rater feedback, further strengthening the focus on teamwork and team success. Talent Development and Succession Planning We provide several leadership programs to address the career advancement and associated business impact of our employees. Through our digital learning platform, which was heavily utilized in fiscal 2022, we foster and support an always learning culture where employees can access training, external articles, videos and blogs. In addition, we hosted a series of in-person and on-demand learning sessions designed to build capability and adaptability required for the future. As employees advance in their careers, our training framework builds new capabilities on established foundational skills. Based upon the belief that our employees deserve great managers, our management training is designed to increase capability in the areas of communication, engagement, coaching, inclusion and diversity, hiring and on-boarding, business skills and ensuring an ethical and supportive work environment free from bias and harassment. In fiscal 2022, we also focused on training and resources for our managers to help them effectively manage and lead hybrid teams to enable effective team dynamics as more team members transition back to the office. In addition, our regions and business teams customize development programs for their specific needs. We remain committed to equipping leaders for the future. Because the depth and readiness of our leadership pipeline is critically important to our business, in fiscal 2022 we identified key roles across our enterprise, ensured qualified successors were in place for those roles and have committed to establishing development plans that will be tracked, assessed for effectiveness, and adjusted as we move ahead. We believe these actions will enable us to sustain a culture that honors the importance of learning, leading and growing. Information about our Executive Officers The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 12, 2022 were as follows: Name Age Position Aart J. de Geus 68 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Sassine Ghazi 52 President and Chief Operating Officer Shelagh Glaser 58 Chief Financial Officer Richard Mahoney 60 Chief Revenue Officer John F. Runkel, Jr. 67 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan from May 2012 until April 2022. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board of Directors from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. Sassine Ghazi has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2020 and became our President in November 2021. Mr. Ghazi joined Synopsys in March 1998 as an Application Engineer and most recently served as General Manager of the Design Group. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ghazi was a design engineer at Intel Corporation. Mr. Ghazi received his bachelors degree in Business Administration from Lebanese American University; a B.S.E.E from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993; and an M.S.E.E. from the University of Tennessee in 1995. Shelagh Glaser joined Synopsys as our Chief Financial Officer on December 2, 2022 and succeeds Trac Pham, our former Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Synopsys, Ms. Glaser served as Chief Financial Officer of Zendesk, Inc. from May 2021 to November 2022. Ms. Glaser previously served in senior finance roles at Intel Corporation, a multinational technology company, including serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer for its Data Platform Group since July 2019 and serving as its Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in various other senior roles in its Client Computing Group from December 2013 to July 14 Table of Contents 2019. Ms. Glaser has served as a director and member of the Audit Committee at PubMatic, Inc. since June 2022. Ms. Glaser holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of Michigan and an M.B.A. in Finance from Carnegie Mellon University. Richard Mahoney has served as our Chief Revenue Officer since November 2022. Mr. Mahoney succeeds Joseph W. Logan, who served as our Chief Revenue Officer during fiscal 2022. Mr. Mahoney joined Synopsys as a Special Projects Advisor in May 2022. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Mahoney held several senior management positions with Ansys, Inc. from 2016 to 2022, including most recently as Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Customer Excellence from December 2016 to May 2022. Prior to joining Ansys, from 2014 to 2016, Mr. Mahoney was Senior Vice President, Design Enablement and International Sales, at Global Foundries, a semiconductor manufacturing company. Mr. Mahoney holds an A.S. in Computer Science from the Maxwell Institute of Technology. John F. Runkel, Jr. has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2014. From October 2008 to March 2013, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Affymetrix, Inc. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Runkel served in several roles at VISX, Inc. from 2001 to 2005, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Development and General Counsel. Mr. Runkel was also a partner at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP for 11 years. Mr. Runkel holds a Bachelor of Arts and a Juris Doctorate from the University of California, Los Angeles. There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in the following discussion, and in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Legal Proceedings, and