Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Any statements herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. For example, words such as may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, "forecast," or the negatives of such terms, and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements concerning expected growth in the semiconductor industry and the effects of industry and customer consolidation, our business outlook, our business model, our growth strategy, the ability of our prior acquisitions to drive revenue growth, the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from operations, our future liquidity requirements, and other statements that involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, time frames or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those identified below in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016 , as filed with the SEC on December 12, 2016. Overview Business Summary Synopsys, Inc. provides software, intellectual property, and services used by designers across the entire silicon to software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to software developers seeking to ensure the quality and security of their applications. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test ICs, also known as chips. We also offer intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than design those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to develop the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the quality and security of software code in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, energy, industrials, and automotive. Our EDA and IP customers are generally semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our solutions help these companies overcome the challenges of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while also helping them reduce their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, their research and development budget and spending decisions may be affected by their business outlook and willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. In addition, several consolidations have taken place in the semiconductor industry recently. While we do not believe customer consolidations have had a material impact on our results, the future impact is uncertain. For a discussion of potential risks, please see the risk factor titled Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . 23 Table of Contents Despite global economic uncertainty, we have maintained profitability and positive cash flow on an annual basis in recent years. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, but also because of our time-based revenue business model. Under this model, a substantial majority of our customers pay over time and we typically recognize this revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Time-based revenue, which consists of time-based products, maintenance and service revenue, represents approximately 90% of our total revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. Due to our business model, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on building on our leadership in our EDA products, expanding and proliferating our IP offerings, and driving growth in the software quality and security market. As we continue to expand our product portfolio and our total addressable market, for instance in the software quality and security space, and hardware grows, we may experience increased variability in our revenue, though we generally expect time-based revenue to continue to represent approximately 90% of our total revenue. Overall, our business outlook remains solid based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy. We believe that these factors will help us continue to execute our strategies successfully. Financial Performance Summary In the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared to the same period of fiscal 2016 : Revenues were $652.8 million, an increase of $84.2 million, or 15%, primarily driven by the overall growth in our business due to increases of hardware sales, TSL license revenues and IP consulting projects and to a lesser extent from acquisitions. Total costs and operating expenses were $555.9 million, an increase of $58.4 million, or 12%, primarily due to increases in headcount, including those from acquisitions, and higher product and consulting costs due to higher sales. Higher operating income of $96.9 million, an increase of $25.8 million or 36%. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $966.4 million as of January 31, 2017, of which 16% was in the U.S. We expect to continue to derive approximately 90% of our revenue from time-based products, and maintenance and service revenue on an annual basis. During the three-month period ended January 31, 2017, 88% of our revenue was time-based. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 16 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under the heading Results of Operations below are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; Valuation of business combinations; Valuation of intangible assets; and Income taxes. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016 , filed with the SEC on December 12, 2016. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of products that include software licenses, maintenance and services, and to a lesser extent, hardware products. Software license revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual licenses and professional services fees. Hardware revenue consists of sales of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)-based emulation and prototyping products. Most of our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, bundled with post-contract customer support and additional meaningful rights that provide a complete end-to-end solution to the customer. Throughout the contract, our customers are typically using a myriad of products to complete each phase of a chip design and are concurrently working on multiple chip designs, or projects, in different phases of the design. During this time, the customer looks to us to release state-of-the-art technology as we keep up with the pace of change, to address requested enhancements to our tools to meet customer specifications, to provide support at each stage of the customers design, including the final manufacturing of the chip (the tape-out stage), and other important services. With respect to software licenses, we utilize primarily two license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs). TSLs are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. The majority of our arrangements are TSLs due to the nature of the business and customer requirements. In addition to the licenses, the arrangements also include: post-contract customer support, which includes providing frequent updates and upgrades to maintain the utility of the software due to rapid changes in technology; other intertwined services such as multiple copies of the tools; assisting our customers in applying our technology in their development environment; and rights to remix licenses for other licenses. Perpetual licenses. Perpetual licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the two software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based products revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront products revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based products revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a term or perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is delivered. The weighted-average term of the TSLs and term licenses is typically three years, but varies from quarter to quarter due to the nature and timing of the arrangements entered into during the quarter. For the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 , the weighted-average license term was 2.8 and 3.7 years, respectively. Revenue on contracts requiring significant modification or development is accounted for using the percentage of completion method over the period of the development. 25 Table of Contents Revenue on hardware product orders is generally recognized in full at the time the product is shipped and when title is transferred. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the event that removes the contingency occurs. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). Revenue on professional services orders is generally recognized as the services are performed. Infrequently, we enter into certain license arrangements wherein licenses are provided for a finite term without any other services or rights, including rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We recognize revenue from term licenses in full upon shipment of the software and when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our revenue in any period is equal to the sum of our time-based products, upfront products, and maintenance and services for the period. We derive time-based products revenue largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent from contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and from contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront products revenue directly from term and perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the period. We derive maintenance revenue largely from maintenance orders received in prior periods since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional services revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services as those services are delivered and accepted or on percentage of completion for arrangements requiring significant modification of our software, and not when they are booked. Our revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL delivered on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the 12 succeeding quarters. Conversely, a $120,000 order for perpetual licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is delivered, but no future revenue. Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees and 100% of the maintenance fees are payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Most of our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 652.8 $ 568.6 $ 84.2 15 % Our revenue is subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements, including payment terms and the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience variability in our revenue due to factors such as the timing of IP consulting projects, royalties, variability in hardware sales and certain contracts where revenue is recognized when customer installment payments are due. As revenue from hardware sales are recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such hardware may result in increased variability of our total revenue. The increase in total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to the overall growth in our business mainly due to higher hardware sales, TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods, IP consulting projects and to a lesser extent due to revenue from acquired companies. 26 Table of Contents Time-Based Products Revenue January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 489.4 $ 464.3 $ 25.1 5 % Percentage of total revenue 75 % 82 % The increase in time-based products revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue due to arrangements booked in prior periods. Upfront Products Revenue January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 79.6 $ 43.4 $ 36.2 83 % Percentage of total revenue 12 % 8 % Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The increase in upfront products revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to an increase in the sale of hardware products. As our sales of hardware products grow, upfront products revenue may increase, but we expect it to remain consistent with our business model, in which approximately 90% of our total revenue is attributable to time-based products, and maintenance and service revenue on an annual basis. Maintenance and Service Revenue January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Maintenance revenue $ 19.4 $ 18.0 $ 1.4 8 % Professional services and other revenue 64.4 42.9 21.5 50 % Total maintenance and service revenue $ 83.8 $ 60.9 $ 22.9 38 % Percentage of total revenue 13 % 11 % Changes in maintenance revenue are generally attributable to timing of perpetual contracts and maintenance renewals. Maintenance revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was relatively flat. The increase in professional services and other revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to the timing of IP consulting projects that are accounted for using the percentage of completion method and contributions from acquisitions. We expect our professional services revenues to increase in future periods as a result of recent acquisitions, but we do not expect the impact to be material to our total revenue. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cost of products revenue $ 97.0 $ 76.4 $ 20.6 27 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 37.2 22.5 14.7 65 % Amortization of intangible assets 21.5 30.5 (9.0 ) (30 )% Total $ 155.7 $ 129.4 $ 26.3 20 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 23 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of products revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of products revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on products and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that had reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and costs to deliver our consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. We expect our cost of maintenance and service revenue to increase in future periods as a result of recent acquisitions, but we do not expect the impact to be material to our total cost of revenue. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete related to acquisitions and certain contract rights related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to increases of $14.8 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, $12.7 million in hardware product costs due to timing of shipments, and $6.2 million in costs related to IP consulting revenue, which were partially offset by a decrease of $9.0 million in amortization of intangible assets. Changes in other cost of revenue categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Operating Expenses Research and Development January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 212.6 $ 196.7 $ 15.9 8 % Percentage of total revenue 33 % 35 % The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to increases of $14.9 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions. Changes in other research and development expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. 28 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 126.5 $ 122.6 $ 3.9 3 % Percentage of total revenue 19 % 22 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase of $9.0 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, partially offset by $6.4 million of lower variable compensation primarily based on timing of shipments. Changes in other sales and marketing expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. General and Administrative January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 40.9 $ 39.7 $ 1.2 3 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 7 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 were relatively flat as increases of $5.2 million in personnel-related costs, and $2.3 million in facilities expenses, were offset by $6.8 million of lower professional service costs. Changes in other general and administrative expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Amortization of Intangible Assets January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Included in cost of revenue $ 21.5 $ 30.5 $ (9.0 ) (30 )% Included in operating expenses 8.0 6.9 1.1 16 % Total $ 29.5 $ 37.4 $ (7.9 ) (21 )% Percentage of total revenue 5 % 7 % The decrease in amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to intangible assets that were fully amortized, partially offset by additions of acquired intangible assets. See Note 4 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts. 29 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges During the three months ended January 31, 2017 , our management approved, committed and initiated a restructuring plan as part of a business reorganization. Total charges under this plan are expected to be $15 million to $16 million consisting of severance and benefits. We recorded $12.1 million of these charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and expect to record the remaining balance in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Payments of these restructuring charges are anticipated to be completed in fiscal 2017. During the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded $12.1 million and $2.1 million of restructuring charges, respectively. See Note 7 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our restructuring charges. Other Income (Expense), net January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Interest income $ 1.2 $ 0.6 $ 0.6 100 % Interest (expense) (1.3 ) (0.7 ) (0.6 ) 86 % Gain (loss) on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan 7.8 (9.4 ) 17.2 (183 )% Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 3.2 0.6 2.6 433 % Other, net 0.6 2.1 (1.5 ) (71 )% Total $ 11.5 $ (6.8 ) $ 18.3 (269 )% Other income (expense), net, for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 , primarily due to gains in the market value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets compared to a loss in the corresponding period. Taxes Our effective tax rate increased in the three months ended January 31, 2017 , as compared to the same period in fiscal 2016, primarily due to the permanent reinstatement of the U.S. federal research tax credit in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. For further discussion of the provision for income taxes, see Note 15 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of January 31, 2017 , we held an aggregate of $150.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the United States and an aggregate of $816.4 million in our foreign subsidiaries. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. However, in the event funds from foreign subsidiaries were needed to fund cash needs in the U.S. and if U.S. taxes have not already been previously accrued, we would be required to accrue and pay additional U.S. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. The following sections discuss changes in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of cash flows, and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during the three months ended January 31, 2017 . 30 Table of Contents Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments January 31, 2017 October 31, 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 827.7 $ 976.6 $ (148.9 ) (15 )% Short-term investments $ 138.7 $ 140.7 $ (2.0 ) (1 )% Total $ 966.4 $ 1,117.3 $ (150.9 ) (14 )% Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased primarily due to cash used for acquisitions and intangible assets, stock repurchases under our accelerated stock repurchase agreement (the December 2016 ASR), purchases of property and equipment and repayment of debt. Cash used was partially offset by proceeds from our term loan facility and cash generated from our operations. Cash Flows January 31, 2017 2016 $ Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 46.9 $ (35.2 ) $ 82.1 Cash (used in) investing activities (202.8 ) (29.5 ) (173.3 ) Cash provided by (used in) by financing activities 15.9 (182.3 ) 198.2 We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by or used in our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities . Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 , primarily due to higher cash collections, partially offset by higher disbursements for operations, including vendors. Cash (used in) investing activities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 , primarily due to higher cash paid for acquisitions and intangible assets of $168.7 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2016 , primarily due to lower stock repurchase activities of $100.0 million and higher proceeds from our credit facility and term loan, net of repayments, of $92.5 million. Accounts Receivable, net January 31, 2017 October 31, 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Accounts Receivable, net $ 332.0 $ 438.9 $ (106.9 ) (24 )% Our accounts receivable and days sales outstanding (DSO) are primarily driven by our billing and collections activities. Our DSO was 46 days at January 31, 2017 and 63 days at October 31, 2016 . Accounts receivable and DSO decreased primarily due to the timing of billings to customers and an increase in collections. 31 Table of Contents Working Capital Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets: January 31, 2017 October 31, 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 1,484.0 $ 1,716.9 $ (232.9 ) (14 )% Current liabilities 1,456.6 1,714.9 (258.3 ) (15 )% Working capital $ 27.4 $ 2.0 $ 25.4 1,270 % Increases in our working capital were primarily due to (1) a decrease of $150.4 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to timing of disbursements, (2) a decrease of $67.0 million in deferred revenue, (3) a decrease of $28.0 million in short-term debt and (4) an increase of $26.4 million in prepaid and other current assets primarily due to timing of service contract renewals. These changes in working capital were partially offset by a decrease of $151.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and a decrease of $106.9 million in accounts receivable, net, due to the timing of billings to customers and collections. Other CommitmentsCredit Facility On November 28, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with several lenders (the Credit Agreement) providing for (i) a $650.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) and (ii) a $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the Term Loan). The Credit Agreement amended and restated our previous credit agreement dated May 19, 2015 (the 2015 Agreement), in order to increase the size of the revolving credit facility from $500.0 million to $650.0 million , provide a new $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, and to extend the termination date of the revolving credit facility from May 19, 2020 to November 28, 2021. Subject to obtaining additional commitments from lenders, the principal amount of the loans provided under the Credit Agreement may be increased by us by up to an additional $150.0 million . The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring the Company to operate within a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of January 31, 2017 , we were in compliance with all financial covenants. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we received funding of $150.0 million under the Term Loan. Principal payments under the Term Loan are due as follows: Fiscal year (in thousands) 2017 $ 5,625 2018 10,313 2019 14,062 2020 17,813 2021 27,187 2022 75,000 Total $ 150,000 As of January 31, 2017 , we had a $149.5 million outstanding balance, net of an immaterial amount of debt issuance costs, under the Term Loan, of which $142.5 million is classified as long-term liabilities, and a $170.0 million outstanding balance under the Revolver, all of which are considered short-term liabilities. As of October 31, 2016 , we had no outstanding balance under the previous term loan from the 2015 Agreement and a $205.0 million outstanding balance under the previous revolver from the 2015 Agreement, which are considered short-term liabilities. We expect borrowings under the Revolver will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. As of January 31, 2017 , borrowings under the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR +1.125% and the applicable interest rate for the Revolver was LIBOR +1.000% . In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.125% and 0.200% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. 32 Table of Contents Other Our available-for-sale securities as of January 31, 2017 consisted of investment-grade U.S. government agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds, and others. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. As of January 31, 2017 , we had no direct holdings in structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities or collateralized debt obligations and no exposure to these financial instruments through our indirect holdings in money market mutual funds. During the three months ended January 31, 2017 , we had no impairment charge associated with our available-for-sale securities portfolio. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we regularly review our investments and associated risk profiles, which we believe will allow us to effectively manage the risks of our investment portfolio. We proactively manage our cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 5 and 6 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations, and available credit under our Revolver will satisfy our routine business requirements for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. 33 Table of Contents