Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) includes forward-looking statements, which involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause Synopsys, Inc.'s (Synopsys, we, our or us) actual results, time frames or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures regarding these risks and uncertainties made in this Quarterly Report, including those identified below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements include any statements that are not statements of historical fact and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning strategies related to our products, technology and services; business and market outlook, opportunities, strategies and technological trends, such as artificial intelligence (AI); planned acquisitions and their expected impact, such as our pending acquisition of ANSYS, Inc. (Ansys), including, among other things, expectations regarding the financing of pending acquisitions; planned dispositions and their expected impact; the potential impact of the uncertain macroeconomic environment on our financial results, including, but not limited to, the effects of sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical pressures, including, among others, the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and foreign trade regulations, government actions and regulatory changes, such as export control restrictions and tariffs, and regional or global military conflicts, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, and associated global economic conditions; customer demand and market expansion; our planned product releases and capabilities; industry growth rates; the expected realization of our contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations (backlog); software trends; planned stock repurchases; our expected tax rate; and the impact and result of pending legal, administrative and tax proceedings. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words including, but not limited to, may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, forecast, "likely," "potential," "seek," or the negatives of such terms and similar expressions. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The following summary and overview of our financial condition and results of operations are qualified in their entirety by the more complete discussions and should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, the risk factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report, and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2024, as filed with the SEC on December 19, 2024 (our Annual Report). Overview Unless otherwise noted, this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relates solely to our continuing operations and does not include the operations of our former Software Integrity business. See Software Integrity Divestiture below and Note 3. Discontinued Operations of the Notes toCondensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the Software Integrity Divestiture. Financial Performance Summary For the first quarter of fiscal 2025, our results reflect continued strong execution, with our revenue and operating income reflecting a challenging comparison against the strength of our results and the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, as well as the timing of customer spending for hardware and IP and lower revenue in China in the first quarter of fiscal 2025. The following table sets forth some of our key quarterly unaudited financial information: Three Months Ended January 31, 2025 2024 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 1,455.3 $ 1,511.0 Cost of revenue $ 270.0 $ 279.2 Operating expenses $ 933.5 $ 879.2 28 Operating income $ 251.8 $ 352.6 Net income from continuing operations attributed to Synopsys $ 295.7 $ 437.5 Net income from discontinued operations attributed to Synopsys $ $ 11.7 Diluted net income per share attributed to Synopsys: Continuing operations $ 1.89 $ 2.82 Discontinued operations $ $ 0.07 Financial performance summary for the three months ended January 31, 2025compared to the same period of fiscal 2024: Revenues were $1.5 billion, a decrease of $55.7 million or 4%, primarily due to the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 of approximately $63.2 million, as well as a decrease in the revenue of IP and hardware products of approximately $74.0 million driven by the timing of customer spending and strong IP revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Total cost of revenue and operating expenses was $1.2 billion, an increase of $45.1 million or 4%, primarily due to an increase of $34.4 million in legal, consulting and other professional fees mainly in connection with the Ansys Merger, and $27.1 million in employee-related costs resulting from headcount increases through organic growth and acquisitions. Operating income was $251.8 million, a decrease of $100.8 million or 29%. Business Summary Synopsys delivers trusted and comprehensive silicon to systems design solutions, from EDA, including system verification and validation solutions, to silicon IP. We partner closely with semiconductor and systems customers across a wide range of industries to maximize their engineering and research and development capacity. We are catalyzing the era of pervasive intelligence, powering innovation today that ignites the ingenuity of tomorrow. For more information about our business segments and product groups, see Part I, Item 1, Business in our Annual Report. We have consistently grown our revenue since 2005, despite periods of global economic uncertainty. We achieved these results because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, and because we generally recognize our revenue for software licenses over the arrangement period, which typically approximates three years. See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Basis of Presentation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report for a discussion on our revenue recognition policy. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. As a result, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenue in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on maintaining and building on our leadership in our Design Automation products, expanding and proliferating our Design IP offerings and continuing to expand our product portfolio and our total addressable market. Our revenue growth from period to period is expected to vary based on the mix of our time-based and upfront products. Our upfront products have grown at a faster rate than our time-based products in recent periods, which has resulted in, and may in the future result in, increased fluctuation in our business, operating results and overall financial position on a quarterly basis. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, "Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price" of this Quarterly Report for further discussion on potential fluctuations in our operating results. Based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy, we believe that we will continue to execute our strategies successfully. Pending Acquisition of Ansys On January 15, 2024, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Ansys, a provider of broad engineering simulation and analysis software and services, in a cash-and-stock transaction (the Ansys Merger) that values Ansys at approximately $35.0 billion, based on the closing price of Synopsys common stock on December 21, 2023. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Ansys Merger (the Effective Time), each share of Ansys common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (with certain exceptions set 29 forth in the Merger Agreement) will be converted into the right to receive 0.3450 (the Exchange Ratio) of a share of Synopsys common stock and $197.00 in cash, without interest. The Exchange Ratio is expected to result in Ansys equityholders and Synopsys equityholders owning approximately 16.5% and 83.5%, respectively, of the combined company on a pro forma basis following the Effective Time. The Merger Agreement also provides for Synopsys assumption of certain outstanding Ansys options and other unvested Ansys equity awards held by continuing Ansys employees. If the stock consideration to be issued by Synopsys in connection with the Ansys Merger exceeds 19.9999% of the shares of Synopsys common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, the Exchange Ratio will be reduced to the minimum extent necessary to ensure that the aggregate number of shares of Synopsys common stock to be issued in connection with the Ansys Merger does not exceed such threshold, and the cash consideration will be correspondingly increased to offset such adjustment. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, two members of the board of directors of Ansys selected by mutual agreement of Synopsys and Ansys will become members of the Board of Directors of Synopsys. If the closing occurs less than six months prior to the next annual meeting of Synopsys stockholders, Synopsys will nominate such directors for election at such meeting. On March 19, 2024, Synopsys and Ansys mutually agreed to designate Dr. Ajei Gopal, the current President and Chief Executive Officer of Ansys, to become a member of the Synopsys Board of Directors at the Effective Time, subject to the completion of Synopsys director nomination process and satisfaction of all applicable eligibility requirements established by Synopsys Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Ansys and Synopsys have not yet determined or agreed on the remaining member of the Ansys board of directors to be appointed to the Synopsys Board of Directors. The Ansys Merger was approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Ansys common stock on May 22, 2024 and is anticipated to close in the first half of calendar year 2025. The Ansys Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among other things, the clearance of the Ansys Merger under certain antitrust and foreign investment regimes, and the continued effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-277912) filed by us on March 14, 2024 and declared effective by the SEC on April 17, 2024. Following the determination that it was a necessary step towards obtaining governmental approval of and successfully closing the Ansys Merger, on September 3, 2024, we signed a definitive agreement for the sale of our Optical Solutions Group to Keysight Technologies, Inc. (the Optical Solutions Divestiture). The Optical Solutions Divestiture is subject to customary closing conditions, including review by regulatory authorities, and the successful closing of the Ansys Merger. We and Ansys each have termination rights under the Merger Agreement. A fee of $1.5 billion may be payable by us to Ansys, or a fee of $950.0 million may be payable by Ansys to us, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, each as more fully described in the Merger Agreement. The receipt of financing by us is not a condition to complete the Ansys Merger. In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into a commitment letter on January 15, 2024 (the Bridge Commitment Letter) with certain financial institutions that committed to provide, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, a senior unsecured bridge facility (the Bridge Commitment). On October 3, 2024, we reduced the Bridge Commitment by $1.1 billion to $10.6 billion following the closing of the Software Integrity Divestiture (as defined below). The Bridge Commitment currently provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $10.6 billion. On February 13, 2024, we entered into a term loan facility credit agreement (the Term Loan Agreement), which provides us with the ability to borrow up to $4.3 billion at the closing of the Ansys Merger, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions for similar facilities, for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. See Note 10. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Bridge Commitment and the Term Loan Agreement. For more on risks related to the Ansys Merger, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Risks Related to the Ansys Merger" of this Quarterly Report. Impact of the Current Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Environment Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, including the effects of, among other things, sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical pressures, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, and associated global economic conditions, have resulted in volatility in credit, equity and foreign currency markets. While we have seen continued strength in the artificial intelligence and high-performance computing sectors, certain industries such as industrial, 30 automotive and consumer electronics have recovered more slowly from recent macroeconomic uncertainty. The current uncertain macroeconomic environment has led some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, delay their drawdowns under non-cancellable commitments, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. We expect growth across our geographies in fiscal 2025; however, we are expecting a challenging near-term growth environment in China due to macroeconomic factors as well as global trade restrictions. See the discussion below and in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, "We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets" of this Quarterly Report for further discussion of the impact of export control regulations on Synopsys. We are also actively monitoring geopolitical pressures around the world, including, among others, changes in China-Taiwan relations, the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East and other regional or global military conflicts. Any significant disruption caused by these or other geopolitical pressures or conflicts could materially affect our employees, business, operating results, financial condition or customers in those regions of the world. For example, Synopsys has employees, operations, customers and strategic partners in the Middle East. While we are actively monitoring the conflicts in the Middle East, at this time they have not had a material impact on our business, operating results or financial condition to date. While our time-based model provides stability to our business, operating results and overall financial position, the broader implications of these macroeconomic or geopolitical events, particularly in the long term, remain uncertain. Further, the negative impact of these events or disruptions may be deferred due to our business model. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition and "Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price" of this Quarterly Report for further discussion of the impact of global economic and geopolitical uncertainty on our business, operations and financial condition and potential fluctuations in our operating results, respectively. Developments in Export Control Regulations The Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce has published changes to U.S. export control regulations (the U.S. Export Regulations), including, among other things, the inclusion of certain Chinese technology companies on the Entity List, restrictions on the export of electronic computer-aided design (ECAD) software specially designed for the development of ICs with Gate-All-Around Field-Effect Transistor structures, as well as controls on ECAD software for advanced semiconductor packaging involving multiple chips or chiplets, and certain other restrictions to Chinas access to certain semiconductor and advanced computing technology. We currently believe that the U.S. Export Regulations and non-U.S. export requirements (collectively, the Export Regulations) do not materially impact our business. We anticipate additional changes to the Export Regulations in the future, but we cannot forecast the scope or timing of such changes, nor the impact on our business. We will continue to monitor such developments, including potential additional trade restrictions, and other regulatory or policy changes by the U.S. and foreign governments. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions such as the U.S. governments Entity List and other export regulations, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. Software Integrity Divestiture On May 5, 2024, we entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement), by and between Synopsys and Sapphire Software Buyer, Inc. (Buyer), an entity controlled by funds affiliated with Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. and Francisco Partners (together, the Sponsors). On September 30, 2024, we completed the previously announced sale of our Software Integrity business to entities controlled by funds affiliated with the Sponsors (the Software Integrity Divestiture). We previously determined that the Software Integrity business met the criteria to be disclosed as discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. See Note 3. Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. Business Segments Design Automation. This segment includes our advanced silicon design, verification products and services and system integration products. This segment also includes digital, custom and field programmable gate array (FPGA) integrated circuit (IC) design software, verification software and hardware products, system integration products and 31 services, and manufacturing software products. Designers use our EDA products to accelerate and automate the chip design process, reduce errors and enable more powerful and robust designs, with improved productivity for faster time to market. Design IP. This segment includes our interface, foundation, security, and embedded processor IP, IP subsystems, and IP implementation services that serve companies primarily in the semiconductor and electronics industries. We are a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for system-on-chips (SoCs). This includes IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, Internet of Things and AI/data center markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas. Fiscal Year and Fiscal Quarter End Historically, our fiscal years had been 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday nearest to October 31. Fiscal 2024 was a 53-week year ending on November 2, 2024, which impacted our revenue, expenses and operating results. We have changed our fiscal year end from the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consisting of 52 or 53 fiscal weeks to a fiscal year end of October 31 each year. The fiscal year change became effective with our fiscal 2025, which began on November 3, 2024. Our fiscal quarters will end on January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year. The first quarter of fiscal 2025 and 2024 ended on January 31, 2025 and February 3, 2024, respectively. Our results of operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2024 included 14 weeks. The extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 resulted in approximately $63.2 million of additional revenue, and approximately $52.5 million of additional expenses, including approximately $10.6 million in stock-based compensation costs from continuing operations. For presentation purposes, this Quarterly Report refers to the closest calendar month end for the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). In preparing these financial statements, we make estimates and assumptions that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make estimates and assumptions and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; and Business combinations. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting estimates during the three months ended January 31, 2025 since our Annual Report for fiscal 2024. Refer to Item 7A, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained inPart II of our Annual Report for a complete description of our critical accounting estimates. Results of Operations Revenue Our revenues are generated from two business segments: the Design Automation segment and the Design IP segment. See Note 17. Segment Disclosure of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for more information about our reportable segments and revenue by geographic regions. Further disaggregation of the revenues into various products and services within these two segments is summarized as follows: Design Automation Segment EDA solutions include digital, custom and FPGA IC design software, verification software and hardware products, system integration products and services, and obligations to provide unspecified updates and support services. EDA products and services are typically sold through Technology Subscription 32 License (TSL) arrangements that grant customers the right to access and use all of the licensed products at the outset of an arrangement; software updates are generally made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. The duration of our TSL contracts is generally three years, though it may vary for specific arrangements. We have concluded that the software licenses in TSL contracts are not distinct from the obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because the multiple software licenses and support represent inputs to a single, combined offering, and timely, relevant software updates are integral to maintaining the utility of the software licenses. We recognize revenue for the combined performance obligation under TSL contracts ratably over the term of the license. In the case of arrangements involving the sale of hardware products, we generally have two performance obligations. The first performance obligation is to transfer the hardware product, which includes software integral to the functionality of the hardware product. The second performance obligation is to provide maintenance on the hardware and its embedded software, which includes rights to technical support, hardware repairs and software updates that are all provided over the same term and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the hardware product is generally recognized as revenue at the time of shipment because the customer obtains control of the product at that point in time. We have concluded that control generally transfers at that point in time because the customer has the ability to direct the use of the asset and an obligation to pay for the hardware. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the maintenance obligation is recognized as revenue ratably over the maintenance term. Revenue from Professional Service contracts is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. We have a history of reasonably estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect these estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. Design IP Segment Design IP includes our interface, foundation, security, and embedded processor IP, IP subsystems, and IP implementation services. These arrangements generally have two performance obligations which consist of transferring of the licensed IP and providing related support, which includes rights to technical support and software updates that are provided over the support term and are transferred to the customer over time. Revenue allocated to the IP licenses is recognized at a point in time upon the later of the delivery date or the beginning of the license period, and revenue allocated to support is recognized over the support term. Royalties are recognized as revenue in the quarter in which the applicable customer sells its products that incorporate our IP. Payments for IP contracts are generally received upon delivery of the IP. Revenue related to the customization of certain IP is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. Our customer arrangements can involve multiple products and various license rights, and our customers negotiate with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they generally request a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in highly competitive markets. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. 33 Total Revenue January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Design Automation $ 1,020.2 $ 985.3 $ 34.9 4 % Design IP 435.1 525.7 (90.6) (17) % Total $ 1,455.3 $ 1,511.0 $ (55.7) (4) % Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements including the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience fluctuations in our revenues due to factors such as the timing of IP product sales, Flexible Spending Account (FSA) drawdowns, royalties, and hardware products sales. As revenues from IP products sales and hardware products sales are recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such IP products and hardware products could result in increased variability of our total revenues. Contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations (backlog) as of January 31, 2025 were $7.7 billion, which includes $1.1 billion in non-cancellable FSA commitments from customers where actual product selection and quantities of specific products or services are to be determined by customers at a later date. We have elected to exclude future sales-based royalty payments from the remaining performance obligations. Approximately 42% of the backlog as of January 31, 2025, excluding non-cancellable FSA, is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter. The majority of the remaining backlog is expected to be recognized in the following three years. The amount and composition of unsatisfied performance obligations will fluctuate period to period. We do not believe the amount of unsatisfied performance obligations is indicative of future sales or revenue, or that such obligations at the end of any given period correlates with actual sales performance of a particular geography or particular products and services. For more information regarding our revenue during the three months ended January 31, 2025, including our contract balances as of such date, see Note 5. Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report. The decrease in total revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 of approximately $63.2 million, as well as a decrease in the revenue of IP and hardware products of approximately $74.0 million driven by the timing of customer spending and strong IP revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. For a discussion of revenue by geographic areas, see Note 17. Segment Disclosure of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report. 34 Time-Based Products Revenue January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 828.2 $ 805.1 $ 23.1 3 % Percentage of total revenue 57 % 53 % The increase in time-based products revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods, partially offset by the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Upfront Products Revenue January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 368.1 $ 442.4 $ (74.3) (17) % Percentage of total revenue 25 % 29 % Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in the extent and timing of customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The decrease in upfront products revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to a decrease in the sale of IP and hardware products, driven by the timing of customer spending. Upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate based on the timing of IP and hardware product sales. Such fluctuations will continue to be impacted by the timing of shipments and FSA drawdowns due to customer requirements. Maintenance and Service Revenue January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Maintenance revenue $ 117.2 $ 101.4 $ 15.8 16 % Professional service and other revenue 141.8 162.1 (20.3) (13) % Total $ 259.0 $ 263.5 $ (4.5) (2) % Percentage of total revenue 18 % 18 % The increase in maintenance revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to an increase in the volume of arrangements that include maintenance. The decrease in professional service and other revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the timing of IP customization projects. 35 Cost of Revenue January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cost of products revenue $ 168.9 $ 175.5 $ (6.6) (4) % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 92.5 90.5 2.0 2 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 8.6 13.2 (4.6) (35) % Total $ 270.0 $ 279.2 $ (9.2) (3) % Percentage of total revenue 19 % 18 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, hardware-related costs including inventory provisions, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution, and royalties paid to third-party vendors. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes costs to deliver our maintenance services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of acquired intangible assets. Amortization of acquired intangible assets, included in cost of revenue, consists of the amortization and impairment charges of core/developed technology and certain contract rights intangible assets related to acquisitions. The decrease in cost of revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to decreases of $5.2 million in hardware-related costs including inventory provisions, $4.6 million in amortization of acquired technology-related intangible assets, $3.0 million in facility costs, and $2.4 million in costs to fulfill IP consulting arrangements, partially offset by an increase of $6.5 million in employee-related costs as a result of headcount increases from hiring. Operating Expenses Research and Development January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 553.2 $ 525.5 $ 27.7 5 % Percentage of total revenue 38 % 35 % The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to increases of $19.4 million in employee-related costs as a result of headcount increases as we continue to expand and enhance our product portfolio, $10.3 million in consultant and contractor costs, and $7.4 million in facility costs, partially offset by a decrease of $7.9 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. 36 Sales and Marketing January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 209.2 $ 218.8 $ (9.6) (4) % Percentage of total revenue 14 % 14 % The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to a decrease of $9.4 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. General and Administrative January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 167.1 $ 131.3 $ 35.8 27 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 9 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to an increase of $34.4 million in legal, consulting and other professional fees mainly in connection with the Ansys Merger. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets, included in operating expenses, consists of the amortization of trademarks, trade names and customer relationships intangible assets related to acquisitions. January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended 4.0 3.5 0.5 14 % Percentage of total revenue % % Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was relatively flat primarily due to additions of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2024, offset by acquired intangible assets that were fully amortized. See Note 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Interest income $ 35.7 $ 13.1 $ 22.6 173 % Interest expense (10.7) (1.3) (9.4) 723 % Gains (losses) on assets related to deferred compensation plan 19.6 39.4 (19.8) (50) % Foreign currency exchange gains (losses) 0.1 3.4 (3.3) 100 % Gain on sale of strategic investments 55.1 (55.1) (100) % Other, net (5.4) (4.9) (0.5) 10 % Total $ 39.3 $ 104.8 $ (65.5) (63) % The decrease in interest and other income (expense) for the three months ended January 31, 2025 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the impact of gain recognized from the sale of strategic 37 investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 and a decrease in the change in fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Segment Operating Results We do not allocate certain operating expenses managed at a consolidated level to our reportable segments. These unallocated expenses consist primarily of amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, changes in the fair value of deferred compensation plan, and acquisition/divestiture related items. See Note 17. Segment Disclosure of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for more information. Design Automation Segment January 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Adjusted operating income $ 404.7 $ 359.5 $ 45.2 13 % Adjusted operating margin 40 % 36 % 4 % 11 % The increase in adjusted operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. Design IP Segment January 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Adjusted operating income $ 126.5 $ 245.7 $ (119.2) (49) % Adjusted operating margin 29 % 47 % (18) % (38) % The decrease in adjusted operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to a decrease in the revenue of IP products driven by timing of customer spending. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate decreased in the threemonths ended January 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in fiscal 2024, primarily due to capital loss on the sale of our ownership in OpenLight in the first quarter of 2025. See Note 19. Income Taxes of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for further discussion. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of January 31, 2025, we held $3.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We also held $3.9 million in restricted cash primarily associated with deposits for office leases and employee loan programs. Our cash equivalents consisted primarily of taxable money market mutual funds, time deposits and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Our short-term investments include U.S. government and municipal obligations, investment-grade available-for-sale debt and asset backed securities with an overall weighted-average credit rating of approximately AA. As of January 31, 2025, approximately $800.8 million of our cash and cash equivalents were domiciled in various foreign jurisdictions. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. 38 We expect that the pending Ansys Merger is likely to result in a material increase in our debt and liquidity needs that will impact our capital needs during the next twelve months and beyond. We intend to fund our anticipated $19 billion cash consideration payment through a combination of cash and debt, and have a fully-committed debt financing in place for $14.9 billion (including $10.6 billion under the Bridge Commitment). Net cash proceeds received from certain debt and equity issuances or the sale of certain businesses and assets, including the Software Integrity Divestiture, as well as term loan commitments under certain qualifying term loan facilities, will result in mandatory commitment reductions under the Bridge Commitment. On October 3, 2024, we reduced the Bridge Commitment by $1.1 billion to $10.6 billion following the closing of the Software Integrity Divestiture. See Note 10. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for further discussion. As of January 31, 2025, $194.3 million remained available for future stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program (the Program). In connection with the pending Ansys Merger, we have suspended the Program until we reduce our expected debt levels. During the three months ended January 31, 2025, there were no other significant changes to our material cash requirements, including contractual and other obligations, as presented in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and sources of liquidity, as well as the committed debt financing related to the pending Ansys Merger, will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements over the next twelve-month period and beyond. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our spending to support our research and development efforts, and our investments in or acquisitions of businesses, applications or technologies. The following sections discuss changes in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during the three months ended January 31, 2025. Cash Flows Our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows include cash flows related to the Software Integrity business. Significant non-cash items and capital expenditures of discontinued operations related to our Software Integrity business are presented separately in Note 3. Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended January 31, 2025 2024 $ Change (dollars in millions) Cash used in operating activities $ (67.5) $ (87.8) $ 20.3 Cash used in investing activities (22.0) (54.4) 32.4 Cash used in financing activities (141.8) (187.2) 45.4 Cash Used in Operating Activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. The decrease in cash used in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the impact of $187.0 million of fiscal 2023 federal tax payments that were paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 as a result of payment deadline extensions due to IRS tax relief for the California winter storms, partially offset by lower accounts receivable collections and lower net income of $148.8 million. Cash Used in Investing Activities 39 The decrease in cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by lower cash paid for acquisitions of $67.8 million and net cash proceeds of $23.8 million mainly from deferred consideration received in connection with the Software Integrity Divestiture in the first quarter of fiscal 2025, partially offset by higher proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments of $44.2 million and higher purchases of investments of $14.1 million. Cash Used in Financing Activities The decrease in cash used in financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the payment of bridge financing costs of $48.0 million in connection with the Ansys Merger in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 and taxes paid for net share settlements which were $22.4 million lower than the first quarter of fiscal 2024, partially offset by the redemption of redeemable non-controlling interest of $30.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities On January 15, 2024, we entered into the Bridge Commitment Letter with certain financial institutions that committed to provide, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, the Bridge Commitment. The Bridge Commitment currently provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $10.6 billion. The proceeds of any borrowing under the Bridge Commitment will be used for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The commitments to provide the Bridge Commitment may be terminated in whole or reduced in part, at our discretion. In addition, the Bridge Commitment Letter provides that net cash proceeds received from certain debt and equity issuances or the sale of certain businesses and assets, including the Software Integrity Divestiture, as well as term loan commitments under certain qualifying term loan facilities, will result in mandatory commitment reductions under the Bridge Commitment. On October 3, 2024, we reduced the Bridge Commitment by $1.1 billion to $10.6 billion following the closing of the Software Integrity Divestiture. On February 13, 2024, we entered into the Term Loan Agreement in connection with the financing of the pending Ansys Merger. The Term Loan Agreement provides us with the ability to borrow up to $4.3 billion at the closing of the Ansys Merger, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions for similar facilities, for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The Term Loan Agreement provides for two tranches of senior unsecured term loans: a $1.45 billion tranche (Tranche 1) that matures two years after funding and a $2.85 billion tranche (Tranche 2) that matures three years after funding. There was no outstanding balance under the Term Loan Agreement as of January 31, 2025. Under the Term Loan Agreement, borrowings will bear interest on the principal amount outstanding at a floating rate based on, at Synopsys election, (i) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) plus an applicable margin based on the credit ratings of Synopsys ranging from 0.875% to 1.375% (in the case of Tranche 1) or 1.000% to 1.500% (in the case of Tranche 2) or (ii) the ABR (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) plus an applicable margin based on the credit ratings of Synopsys ranging from 0.000% to 0.375% (in the case of Tranche 1) or 0.000% to 0.500% (in the case of Tranche 2). On May 14, 2024, a ticking fee began to accrue under the Term Loan Agreement in an amount equal to a rate per annum equal to 0.10% times the actual daily undrawn portion of the commitments in respect of the term loan facility. This ticking fee will accrue until the earlier of (i) termination or expiration of the commitments under the term loan facility or (ii) the funding of the commitments, at which point the accrued amount of the ticking fee will become payable. The Term Loan Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring that Synopsys maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio commencing the last day of the first fiscal quarter ending on or after the completion of the Ansys Merger, as well as other non-financial covenants. On February 13, 2024, we entered into a Sixth Amendment Agreement (the Sixth Amendment), which amended and restated our previous revolving credit agreement, dated as of December 14, 2022 (as amended and restated, the Revolving Credit Agreement). Under the Sixth Amendment, certain amendments became effective on February 13, 2024 and certain additional amendments will become effective upon the completion of the Ansys Merger. Upon the effective date, the Sixth 40 Amendment amended the financial covenant to allow netting of the cash proceeds of certain debt incurred to finance the Ansys Merger as well as certain other modifications set forth therein. Upon the completion of the Ansys Merger, the Sixth Amendment, among other things: amends the applicable margin used to determine the interest that accrues on loans and the facility fee payable under the revolving credit facility to be based on our credit ratings; amends the financial covenant thresholds under the financial covenant in the Revolving Credit Agreement requiring us to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio; and amends certain conditions to borrowing, other non-financial covenants and events of default. The Revolving Credit Agreement provides an unsecured $850.0 million committed multicurrency revolving credit facility and an unsecured uncommitted incremental revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility is December 14, 2027, which may be extended at our option. There was no outstanding balance under the Revolving Credit Agreement as of January 31, 2025. Interest accrues on dollar-denominated loans at a floating rate based on, at Synopsys election, (i) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin or (ii) the ABR (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for Adjusted Term SOFR Rate based loans ranges from 0.785% to 0.975%, based upon Synopsys consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable margin for ABR based loans is 0.000%. In addition to the interest on any outstanding loans, Synopsys is also required to pay a facility fee on the entire portion of the revolving credit facility ranging from 0.09% to 0.15% based on Synopsys consolidated leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. Subject to the completion of the Ansys Merger, interest under the Revolving Credit Agreement will accrue on dollar-denominated loans at a floating rate based on, at Synopsys election, (i) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate plus an applicable margin based on our credit ratings ranging from 0.795% to 1.200% or (ii) the ABR plus an applicable margin based on our credit ratings ranging from 0.000% to 0.200%. In addition to the interest on any outstanding loans, Synopsys will also be required to pay a facility fee on the entire portion of the revolving credit facility ranging from 0.080% to 0.175% based on the credit ratings of Synopsys on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. The Revolving Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of January 31, 2025, we were in compliance with the financial covenant. In July 2018, we entered into a 12-year 220.0 million Renminbi (approximately $33.0 million) credit agreement with a lender in China to support our facilities expansion. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on the 5 year Loan Prime Rate plus 0.74%. As of January 31, 2025, we had $14.2 million outstanding balance under the agreement. See Note 10. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for further discussion. 41