ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in particular the following discussion, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). These statements include but are not limited to statements concerning: our business, product and platform strategies, expectations regarding previous and future acquisitions; completion of development of our unfinished products, or further development or integration of our existing products; continuation of current industry trends towards vendor consolidation; expectations regarding our license mix; expectations regarding customer interest in more highly integrated tools and design flows; expectations of the success of our intellectual property and design for manufacturing initiatives; expectations concerning recent completed acquisitions; expectations that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from operations will satisfy our business requirements for the next 12 months; and our expectations of our future liquidity requirements. The words may, will, could, would, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, continue, or the negatives of these terms, or other comparable terminology and similar expressions identify these forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the only means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those identified below in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. The information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, filed with the SEC on December 18, 2009. Fiscal Year End. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31. Our first quarter of fiscal 2010 ended on January 30, 2010. Fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 are both 52-week fiscal years. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-Q, including the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, refers to the applicable calendar month end. Overview Business Summary We are a world leader in the electronic design automation (EDA) market. We develop and license the complex software that engineers use to design integrated circuits, also known as chips. We offer a broad portfolio of highly integrated solutions that simplify the chip design process, enable the development and production of electronic products, and accelerate time-to-market for our customers. Our customers are generally large semiconductor and electronics manufacturers. Our solutions help them overcome the challenge of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while reducing their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, our customers R&D budget and spending decisions may be impacted by their business outlook and their willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. The recent global recession and continued uncertainty in the global economy have intensified our customers costs and investment challenges. Despite the recent global recession, we have achieved consistent profitability and positive cash flow on an annual basis in recent years. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technology and strong customer relationships, but also because of our recurring revenue business model. Under this model, a substantial majority of our customers pay for their licenses over time and we typically recognize this recurring revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Recurring revenue generally represents more than 90% of our total revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. We typically enter each quarter with greater than 90% of our revenue for that particular quarter already committed from our customers, providing for stability and predictability of results. Nevertheless, our business model and longer-term financial results are not immune from a sustained economic downturn. The recent financial turmoil and economic uncertainty have caused some of our customers to postpone investments and purchase decisions, decrease their spending or delay payments to us. If the financial turmoil and economic uncertainty continue and cause further customer bankruptcies or consolidation among our customers, or if committed average annual revenue from customers does not grow, our year-over-year revenue results could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We continue to monitor market conditions and may make adjustments to our business in order to reduce the adverse impact that the prolonged economic downturn could have on our business. We expect to continue to explore both organic and inorganic growth opportunities. In particular, we may acquire companies or technology that can contribute to the strategic, operational and financial performance of our business. We believe that the combination of our solid financials, leading technology and strong customer relationships will help us successfully execute our strategies. Financial Performance Summary for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2010 Total revenue of $330.2 million was down by $9.6 million, or 3%, from $339.8 million in the same period of fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily attributable to the decrease in time-based license revenue. Time-based license revenue of $272.5 million was down $15.2 million, or 5%, from $287.7 million in the same period of fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily a result of less revenue recognized from contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable. Upfront revenue of $20.4 million was up by $4.7 million, or 30%, from $15.7 million in the same period of fiscal 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to normal fluctuations in customer license requirements which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. We derived 94% of our total revenue from time-based licenses, maintenance and services, and 6% from upfront revenue in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. This reflects our continued adherence to our business model. Net income of $132.8 million was up by $80.4 million, or 153%, from $52.4 million in the same period of fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to a one-time tax benefit from an IRS settlement recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under the heading Result of Operations below are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and net income. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; and Income taxes. We describe our revenue recognition and income taxes policies below. Our remaining critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, filed with the SEC on December 18, 2009. 19 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from software licenses and related maintenance and service revenue and, to a lesser extent, from hardware sales, in accordance with ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition and ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements . Software license revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual and term licenses and professional service fees. Hardware revenue consists of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) board-based products. With respect to software licenses, we utilize three license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs) are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We bundle and do not charge separately for post-contract customer support (maintenance) for the term of the license. Term Licenses are also for a finite term, but do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually for the balance of the term. The annual maintenance fee is typically calculated as a percentage of the net license fee. Perpetual Licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the three software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees (which include bundled maintenance) ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Term Licenses. We recognize revenue from term licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these term licenses is reported as upfront license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. For term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Perpetual Licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. From time to time, we also enter into arrangements in which portions of revenue are contingent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, for example, royalty arrangements. We refer to this revenue as contingent revenue. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the applicable event occurs. It is reported as time-based revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Historically, such arrangements resulted in approximately one percent of our total revenue; however, this may increase in the future. We recognize revenue from hardware sales in full upon shipment if all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these hardware sales is generally reported as upfront license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. If a technology subscription license is sold together with the hardware, we recognize total revenue ratably over the term of the software license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. We recognize revenue from maintenance fees ratably over the maintenance period to the extent cash has been received or fees become due and payable, and recognize revenue from professional services and training fees as such services are performed and accepted by the customer. Revenue attributable to maintenance, professional services and training is reported as maintenance and service revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Our determination of fair value of each element in multiple element arrangements is based on vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). We limit our assessment of VSOE of fair value for each element to the price charged when such element is sold separately. 20 Table of Contents We have analyzed all of the elements included in our multiple-element software arrangements and have determined that we have sufficient VSOE to allocate revenue to the maintenance components of our perpetual and term license products and to professional services. Accordingly, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, we recognize license revenue from perpetual and term licenses upon delivery using the residual method, we recognize revenue from maintenance ratably over the maintenance term, and we recognize revenue from professional services as milestones are met and accepted. We recognize revenue from TSLs ratably over the term of the license, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, since there is not sufficient VSOE to allocate the TSL fee between license and maintenance services. We make significant judgments related to revenue recognition. Specifically, in connection with each transaction involving our products, we must evaluate whether: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery of software or services has occurred, (3) the fee for such software or services is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability of the full license or service fee is probable. All four of these criteria must be met in order for us to recognize revenue with respect to a particular arrangement. We apply these revenue recognition criteria as follows: Persuasive Evidence of an Arrangement Exists. Prior to recognizing revenue on an arrangement, our customary policy is to have a written contract, signed by both the customer and us or a purchase order from those customers that have previously negotiated a standard end-user license arrangement or purchase agreement. Delivery Has Occurred. We deliver our products to our customers electronically or physically. For electronic deliveries, delivery occurs when we provide access to our customers to take immediate possession of the software by downloading it to the customers hardware. For physical deliveries, the standard transfer terms are typically FOB shipping point. We generally ship our products or license keys promptly after acceptance of customer orders. However, a number of factors can affect the timing of product shipments and, as a result, timing of revenue recognition, including the delivery dates requested by customers and our operational capacity to fulfill product orders at the end of a fiscal quarter. The Fee is Fixed or Determinable. Our determination that an arrangement fee is fixed or determinable depends principally on the arrangements payment terms. Our standard payment terms for perpetual and term licenses require 75% or more of the license fee to be paid within one year. If the arrangement includes these terms, we regard the fee as fixed or determinable, and recognize all license revenue under the arrangement in full upon delivery (assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met). If the arrangement does not include these terms, we do not consider the fee to be fixed or determinable and generally recognize revenue when customer installments are due and payable. In the case of a TSL, because of the right to exchange products or receive unspecified future technology and because VSOE for maintenance services does not exist for a TSL, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license, but not in advance of when customers installments become due and payable. Collectability is Probable. We judge collectability of the arrangement fees on a customer-by-customer basis pursuant to our credit review policy. We typically sell to customers with whom we have a history of successful collection. For a new customer, or when an existing customer substantially expands its commitments to us, we evaluate the customers financial position and ability to pay and typically assign a credit limit based on that review. We increase the credit limit only after we have established a successful collection history with the customer. If we determine at any time that collectability is not probable under a particular arrangement based upon our credit review process or the customers payment history, we recognize revenue under that arrangement as customer payments are actually received. Income Taxes Our tax provisions are calculated using estimates in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes . Our estimates and assumptions may differ from the actual results as reflected in our income tax returns and we record the required adjustments when they are identified or resolved. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In evaluating our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, our forecast of future taxable income on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, as well as feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. We believe that the net deferred tax assets of approximately $324.0 million that are recorded on our balance sheet as of January 31, 2010 will ultimately be realized. However, if we determine in the future that it is more likely than not we will not be able to realize a portion or the full amount of deferred tax assets, we would record an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance as a charge to earnings in the period such determination is made. The calculation of tax liabilities involves the inherent uncertainty associated with the application of complex tax laws. We are also subject to examination by various taxing authorities. We believe we have adequately provided in our financial statements for potential additional taxes. If we ultimately determine that these amounts are not owed, we would reverse the liability and recognize the tax benefit in the period in which we determine that the liability is no longer necessary. If an ultimate tax assessment exceeds our estimate of tax liabilities, we would record an additional charge to earnings. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of software licenses, maintenance and professional services and to a small extent, hardware products. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a term or perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is shipped. Substantially all of our current time-based licenses are TSLs with an average license term of approximately three years. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). Revenue on professional services orders generally is recognized upon completion and customer acceptance of contractually agreed milestones. Revenue on hardware product orders is recognized generally in full in the quarter that the product is shipped. A more complete description of our revenue recognition policy can be found under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above. Our revenue in any fiscal quarter is equal to the sum of our time-based license, upfront license, maintenance and professional service and hardware revenue for the period. We derive time-based license revenue in any quarter largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent due to contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront license revenue directly from term and perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the quarter. We derive maintenance revenue in any quarter largely from maintenance orders received in prior quarters since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional service revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services when those services are delivered and accepted, not when they are booked. Our license revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual or term licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL shipped on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the twelve succeeding quarters. Conversely, perpetual and term licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generate current quarter revenue but no future revenue (e.g., a $120,000 order for a perpetual license generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is shipped, but no future revenue). Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual and term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees is payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. While the electronics, semiconductor and EDA industries are currently experiencing uncertainty due to the recent downturn in the global economy, to date, our business model has substantially protected our financial results. Nevertheless, our business model and longer-term financial results are not immune from sustained economic downturns. The turmoil and uncertainty caused by current economic conditions have caused some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Year-over-year revenue results could be adversely affected if committed average annual revenue from customers does not grow, or if we experience additional customer bankruptcies or consolidation among our customers. Total Revenue January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 330.2 $ 339.8 $ (9.6 ) (3 )% The decrease in total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in time-based license revenue in which some of the revenue is recognized when customer payments became due and payable. The decrease was partially offset by the increase in upfront license revenue as a result of a modest increase in the sale of our perpetual licenses. 22 Table of Contents Beginning in fiscal 2010, we record contingent revenue as time-based revenue. As a result, $2.6 million in contingent revenue was reclassified from upfront license to time-based license revenue for the prior year fiscal quarter to conform to the current year presentation. This reclassification had no impact on total revenue. Time-Based License Revenue January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 272.5 $ 287.7 $ (15.2 ) (5 )% Percentage of total revenue 83 % 84 % The decrease in time-based license revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily attributable to less revenue recognized from licenses booked in prior quarters in which revenue is recognized as customer installment payments become due and payable. Upfront License Revenue January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 20.4 $ 15.7 $ 4.7 30 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 5 % The increase in upfront license revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily attributable to normal fluctuations in customer license requirements which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. For example, we had higher sales of perpetual licenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009. Maintenance and Service Revenue January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Maintenance revenue $ 19.4 $ 20.7 $ (1.3 ) (6 )% Professional services and other revenue 17.8 15.7 2.1 13 % Total maintenance and service revenue $ 37.2 $ 36.4 $ 0.8 2 % Percentage of total revenue 11 % 11 % Maintenance revenue decreased in the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the slight decrease in the sale of our term licenses and the timing of renewals of maintenance contracts. Professional services and other revenue increased in the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in customer demand for professional services in fiscal 2010 and the timing of customer acceptance of services performed under ongoing consulting contracts. Events Affecting Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses Functional Allocation of Operating Expenses. We allocate certain human resource programs, information technology and facility expenses among our functional income statement categories based on headcount within each functional area. Annually, or upon a significant change in headcount (such as a workforce reduction, realignment or acquisition) or other factors, management reviews the allocation methodology and expenses included in the allocation pool. 23 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cost of license revenue $ 41.2 $ 41.8 $ (0.6 ) (1 )% Cost of maintenance and service revenue 16.5 15.6 0.9 6 % Amortization of intangible assets 7.9 8.0 (0.1 ) (1 )% Total $ 65.6 $ 65.4 $ 0.2 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 19 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of license revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of license revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of license revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on license and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of license revenue. Cost of license revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distributions costs, royalties paid to third party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products which have reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintain the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and training organization, and costs associated with the delivery of our consulting services, such as, hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is amortized to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of the contract rights associated with certain executory contracts and the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete and other intangibles related to acquisitions. Cost of revenue was relatively flat in the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009. A slight increase in employee related costs was offset by a decrease in travel costs and depreciation. Operating Expenses Research and Development January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 101.2 $ 97.8 $ 3.4 3 % Percentage of total revenue 31 % 29 % The increase in research and development expense in the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to an increase of $1.5 million in employee related costs as a result of headcount increases primarily from our acquisitions and an increase of $2.8 million in the fair value of our deferred compensation plan obligation. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in consulting costs and depreciation. Sales and Marketing January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 79.6 $ 77.4 $ 2.2 3 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 23 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily attributable to an increase of $8.0 million in variable compensation driven primarily by higher shipments, and an increase of $1.8 million in the fair value of our deferred compensation plan obligation. The increase was partially offset by a decrease of $7.1 million of other sales and marketing expenses, including expenses related to employee conferences of $3.6 million. 24 Table of Contents General and Administrative January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 25.9 $ 27.2 $ (1.3 ) (5 )% Percentage of total revenue 8 % 8 % The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to a decrease of $1.8 million in bad debt reserve. Amortization of Intangible Assets January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Included in cost of revenue $ 7.8 $ 8.0 $ (0.2 ) (3 )% Included in operating expenses 2.8 3.8 (1.0 ) (26 )% Total $ 10.6 $ 11.8 $ (1.2 ) (10 )% Percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % The decrease in amortization of intangible assets is due to certain intangible assets acquired in prior years becoming fully amortized partially offset by amortization of intangible assets from our acquisition in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 6 to Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts. In-Process Research and Development We did not value any in-process research and development (IPRD) related to our acquisition in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We incurred IPRD expense of $0.6 million associated with an acquisition during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. We have IPRD when technological feasibility for acquired technology had not been established and no future alternative use for such technology existed. Prior to fiscal 2010, such IPRD was immediately expensed in the statement of operations. Effective fiscal 2010, under new accounting guidance for business combinations, IPRD will be treated as an asset and capitalized until the project is complete and subsequently amortized or abandoned and immediately expensed. Other Income, net Three Months Ended January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Interest income $ 1.7 $ 3.6 $ (1.9 ) (53 )% Income (loss) on assets related to deferred compensation plan 1.6 (4.0 ) 5.6 (140 )% Foreign currency exchange (loss) gain (1.3 ) 3.4 (4.7 ) (138 )% Other 0.2 (0.9 ) 1.1 (122 )% Total $ 2.2 $ 2.1 $ 0.1 5 % The increase in other income, net in the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to an increase in the value of our deferred compensation plan. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest income due to lower interest rates and foreign exchange losses. 25 Table of Contents Taxes See Note 15 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our credit facility. The following sections discuss changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and other commitments on our liquidity and capital resources during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments January 31, 2010 October 31, 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 626.5 $ 701.6 $ (75.1 ) (11 )% Short-term investments 465.8 466.7 (0.9 ) )% Total $ 1,092.3 $ 1,168.3 $ (76.0 ) (7 )% During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, our primary sources and uses of cash consisted of (1) cash used in operating activities of $45.4 million, (2) proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments of $57.4 million, (3) purchases of investments of $58.6 million, and (4) repurchases of common stock of $25.3 million. Cash Flows January 31, 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cash used in operating activities $ (45.4 ) $ (81.9 ) $ 36.5 (45 )% Cash used in investing activities (13.2 ) (32.3 ) 19.1 (59 )% Cash (used in) provided by financing activities (17.9 ) 0.7 (18.6 ) (2,657 )% We hold our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the United States and in foreign accounts, primarily in Ireland, Bermuda, and Japan. As of January 31, 2010, we held an aggregate of $538.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the United States and an aggregate of $553.8 million in foreign accounts. Funds in foreign accounts are generated from revenue outside North America. At present, such foreign funds are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign countries to the extent of indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings. Cash used in operating activities. Cash used in operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. To be classified as upfront revenue, we require that 75% of a term or perpetual license fee be paid within the first year. Conversely, payment terms for TSLs are generally extended and the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually in even increments over the term of the license. Accordingly, we generally receive cash from upfront license revenue much sooner than from time-based licenses revenue. In addition, we typically pay bonuses and variable compensation during the first quarter of our fiscal year resulting in higher cash outflows in the first quarter as compared to the remaining periods in the year. Cash used in operating activities primarily decreased due to the timing of billings and cash payments from customers, decreased bonus and commission payments and lower payments to vendors as compared to the same period in fiscal 2009. We expect that cash used in or provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments and cash used in any future acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities. The decrease in cash used primarily relates to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions compared to the same period in fiscal 2009. Cash (used in) provided by financing activities. The increase in cash used primarily relates to common stock repurchases made under our stock repurchase program compared to the same period in fiscal 2009. See Note 10 of Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details of our stock repurchase program. 26 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable, net January 31, 2010 October 31, 2009 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) $ 142.5 $ 127.0 $ 15.5 12 % Our accounts receivable and Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) are primarily driven by our billing and collections activities. Our DSO was 39 days at January 31, 2010, and 34 days at October 31, 2009. The increase in DSO, along with an increase in accounts receivable balance, primarily relates to timing of billings to customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Net Working Capital. Working capital is composed of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of January 31, 2010, our net working capital was $675.3 million, compared to $649.2 million as of October 31, 2009. The increase of $26.1 million was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $15.5 million as described above, along with decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $72.9 million, and $46.6 million in deferred revenue. These increases were partially offset by decreases in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $76.0 million due to our use of cash as described above and in other current assets of $4.8 million, along with an increase in accrued income taxes of $28.1 million. Other CommitmentsRevolving Credit Facility. On October 20, 2006, we entered into a five-year, $300.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility providing for loans to Synopsys and certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of the facility may be increased by up to an additional $150.0 million through the fourth year of the facility. The facility contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum leverage ratio and specified levels of cash, as well as other non-financial covenants. The facility terminates on October 20, 2011. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the greater of the administrative agents prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%; however, we have the option to pay interest based on the outstanding amount at Eurodollar rates plus a spread between 0.50% and 0.70% based on a pricing grid tied to a financial covenant. In addition, commitment fees are payable on the facility at rates between 0.125% and 0.175% per year based on a pricing grid tied to a financial covenant. As of January 31, 2010, we had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility and were in compliance with all covenants. Other Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of January 31, 2010, consists of investment grade municipal bonds, tax-exempt money market mutual funds and taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. As of January 31, 2010, we had no direct holdings in these categories of investments and no exposure to these financial instruments through our indirect holdings in money market mutual funds. During the three months ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no impairment charge associated with our short-term investment portfolio. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we have taken steps, including regularly reviewing our investments and associated risk profiles, which we believe will allow us to effectively manage the risks of our investment portfolio. As a result of the challenging conditions in the financial markets, we have been more proactively managing our cash and cash equivalents and investments and closely monitoring our capital and stock repurchase expenditures. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations, and available credit under our credit facility will satisfy our business requirements for at least the next twelve months. Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements The effect of recent accounting pronouncements has not changed from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009. 27 Table of Contents