Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Any statements herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. For example, words such as may, will, could, would, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project or continue, and the negatives of such terms are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements concerning expected growth in the semiconductor industry and the effects of industry consolidation, our business outlook, our business model, our growth strategy, the ability of our prior acquisitions (including our acquisition of Coverity, Inc.) to drive revenue growth, the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from operations, our future liquidity requirements, and other statements that involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, time frames or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those identified below in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015 , as filed with the SEC on December 14, 2015. Overview Business Summary Synopsys, Inc. provides software, intellectual property, and services used by designers along the entire silicon to software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to software developers seeking to ensure the quality and security of their products. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits, also known as chips. We also offer intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to develop the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, which are sold primarily to semiconductor and electronics companies, we provide technical services to support our solutions and help our customers develop chips and electronic systems. We are also a leading provider of software tools that developers use to improve the quality and security of software code in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, energy, and industrials. Our EDA and IP customers are generally semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our solutions help them overcome the challenge of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while reducing their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, our customers research and development budget and spending decisions may be affected by their business outlook and their willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. In addition, a number of consolidations have taken place in the semiconductor industry recently. While we do not believe customer consolidations have had a material impact on our results, the future impact is uncertain. Please see the risk factor titled Consolidation among our customers, as well as within the industries in which we operate, may negatively impact our operating results. in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of potential risks. Despite global economic uncertainty, we have maintained profitability and positive cash flow on an annual basis in recent years. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technology and strong customer relationships, but also because of our time-based revenue business model. Under this model, a 20 Table of Contents substantial majority of our customers pay for their licenses over time and we typically recognize this revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Time-based revenue, which consists of time-based license, maintenance and service revenue, generally represents approximately 90% of our total revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. Due to our business model, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on building on our leadership in our EDA products, expanding and proliferating our IP offerings, and driving growth in the software quality and security market, which we entered with our acquisition of Coverity, Inc. We have continued to make investments in the software quality and security space with additional recent acquisitions, which we believe have expanded our total addressable market. As we continue to expand our product portfolio, for instance in IP products, and our total addressable market, we may experience increased variability in our revenue, though we generally expect time-based revenue to continue to represent approximately 90% of our total revenue. Overall, our business outlook remains solid based on our leading technology, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy. We believe that these factors will help us continue to successfully execute our strategies. Financial Performance Summary In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, compared to the same period of fiscal 2015: We delivered a very good start to the year. Revenue increased by $26.6 million, or 5%, driven by increases in license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods and to a lesser extent from prior-year acquisitions. Total costs and operating expenses were $497.5 million, an increase of $27.0 million or 6%, primarily due to an increase in headcount, including from acquisitions. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $705.9 million as of January 31, 2016, of which 16% was in the U.S. Our net income for the period ended January 31, 2016 was $60.0 million, lower by $5.2 million or 8%, due to higher costs and operating expense. We entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase Program for $200.0 million, repurchasing approximately 3.5 million shares (80% of the total amount). We expect to receive the remaining shares by April 29, 2016. We continued to derive more than 90% of our revenue from time-based revenue. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 15 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under the heading Results of Operations below are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: Revenue recognition; Valuation of business combinations; Valuation of intangible assets; and Income taxes. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015 , filed with the SEC on December 14, 2015. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of our software licenses, maintenance and professional services and to a small extent, hardware products. Software license revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and professional service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual and term licenses and professional services fees. Hardware revenue consists of sales of FPGA-based emulation and prototyping products. With respect to software licenses, we utilize three license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs). TSLs are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We bundle and do not charge separately for post-contract customer support (maintenance) for the term of the license. Term licenses. Term licenses are also for a finite term, but do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually for the balance of the term. The annual maintenance fee is typically calculated as a percentage of the net license fee. Perpetual licenses. Perpetual licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the three software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees (which include bundled maintenance) ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Term licenses . We recognize revenue from term licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these term licenses is reported as upfront license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. For term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer payments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based license revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a term or perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is delivered. The weighted-average license term of the TSLs and term licenses we entered into for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 was 3.7 and 2.4 years, respectively. Revenue on contracts requiring significant modification or development is accounted for using the percentage of completion method over the period of the development. Revenue on hardware product orders is generally recognized in full at the time the product is shipped. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the applicable event occurs. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). 22 Table of Contents Revenue on professional services orders is generally recognized after services are performed and accepted by the customer. Our revenue in any period is equal to the sum of our time-based license, upfront license, maintenance and professional services for the period. We derive time-based license revenue largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent due to contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and from contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront license revenue directly from term and perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the period. We derive maintenance revenue largely from maintenance orders received in prior periods since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional services revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services as those services are delivered and accepted or on percentage of completion for arrangements requiring significant modification of our software, and not when they are booked. Our license revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual or term licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL delivered on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the 12 succeeding quarters. Conversely, a $120,000 order for perpetual and term licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is delivered, but no future revenue. Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual and term licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees and 100% of the maintenance fees are payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 568.6 $ 542.0 $ 26.6 5 % Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements, including payment terms and the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience variability in our revenue due to factors such as the timing of IP consulting projects and royalties and certain contracts where revenue is recognized when customer installment payments are due, as well as volatility in hardware sales. The increase in total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase in time-based license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods and to a lesser extent, contributions from acquisitions, which were partially offset by decreases in upfront license revenue and professional services revenue. Time-Based License Revenue January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 464.3 $ 431.0 $ 33.3 8 % Percentage of total revenue 82 % 79 % The increase in time-based license revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue due to arrangements booked in prior periods and, to a lesser extent, contributions from acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents Upfront License Revenue January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 43.4 $ 46.5 $ (3.1 ) (7 )% Percentage of total revenue 8 % 9 % Changes in upfront license revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The slight decrease in upfront license revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to lower sales of perpetual licenses and hardware products driven by timing of customer requirements. As our sales of hardware products grow, upfront license revenue may increase as a percentage of total revenue, but we expect it to remain consistent with our business model in which approximately 90% of our total revenue consists of time-based revenue. Maintenance and Service Revenue January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Maintenance revenue $ 18.0 $ 17.5 $ 0.5 3 % Professional services and other revenue 42.9 47.0 (4.1 ) (9 )% Total maintenance and service revenue $ 60.9 $ 64.5 $ (3.6 ) (6 )% Percentage of total revenue 11 % 12 % Changes in maintenance revenue are generally attributable to timing of perpetual contracts and maintenance renewals. Maintenance revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was relatively flat compared to the same period in fiscal 2015. The changes in professional services and other revenue for three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 were primarily due to the timing of IP customization and consulting projects that are accounted for using the percentage of completion method. Cost of Revenue January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cost of license revenue $ 76.4 $ 70.8 $ 5.6 8 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 22.5 28.0 (5.5 ) (20 )% Amortization of intangible assets 30.5 25.8 4.7 18 % Total $ 129.4 $ 124.6 $ 4.8 4 % Percentage of total revenue 23 % 23 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of license revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of license revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of license revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on license and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of license revenue. Cost of license revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and 24 Table of Contents the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and costs to deliver our consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete related to acquisitions and certain contract rights related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to increases of $4.7 million in amortization of intangible assets, and $2.4 million in personnel-related costs driven by higher headcount, which were partially offset by a decrease of $5.2 million in costs related to our professional services revenue. Changes in other cost of revenue categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Operating Expenses Research and Development January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 196.7 $ 181.6 $ 15.1 8 % Percentage of total revenue 35 % 34 % The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase of $11.7 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions. Changes in other research and development expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Sales and Marketing January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 122.6 $ 106.2 $ 16.4 15 % Percentage of total revenue 22 % 20 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to increases of $12.7 million in variable compensation primarily due to higher shipments, and $3.1 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions. Changes in other sales and marketing expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. 25 Table of Contents General and Administrative January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 39.7 $ 36.4 $ 3.3 9 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 7 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase of $5.2 million in professional services costs which was partially offset by $2.5 million lower facilities expenses. Changes in other general and administrative expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Amortization of Intangible Assets January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Included in cost of revenue $ 30.5 $ 25.9 $ 4.6 18 % Included in operating expenses 6.9 6.4 0.5 8 % Total $ 37.4 $ 32.3 $ 5.1 16 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 6 % The increase in amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to the additions of acquired intangible assets which were partially offset by certain intangible assets being fully amortized. See Note 3 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts. Restructuring Charges During the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015, we recorded $2.1 million and $15.3 million of restructuring charges, respectively. The fiscal 2015 restructuring program, included a voluntary retirement program (VRP) and a minimal headcount reduction program, was completed as of October 31, 2015. Other Income (Expense), net January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Interest income $ 0.6 $ 1.2 $ (0.6 ) (50 )% Interest (expense) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) % Gain (loss) on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan assets (9.4 ) (0.7 ) (8.7 ) 1,243 % Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 0.6 3.7 (3.1 ) (84 )% Other, net 2.1 1.6 0.5 31 % Total $ (6.8 ) $ 5.1 $ (11.9 ) (233 )% Other income (expense), net, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was lower compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher losses in the market value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets and lower foreign currency exchange gains as a result of less movement in foreign currency exchange rates. Taxes 26 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate decreased in the three months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to the same periods in fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the permanent reinstatement of the U.S. federal research tax credit, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. For further discussion of the provision for income taxes, see Note 14 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of January 31, 2016 , we held an aggregate of $110.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the United States and an aggregate of $595.0 million in our foreign subsidiaries. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. However, in the event funds from foreign subsidiaries were needed to fund cash needs in the U.S. and if U.S. taxes have not already been previously accrued, we would be required to accrue and pay additional U.S. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. The following sections discuss changes in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of cash flow, and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during the three months ended January 31, 2016 . Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments January 31, 2016 October 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 583.0 $ 836.2 $ (253.2 ) (30 )% Short-term investments $ 122.9 $ 128.7 $ (5.8 ) (5 )% Total $ 705.9 $ 964.9 $ (259.0 ) (27 )% Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased primarily due to cash used for stock repurchases under our accelerated stock repurchase agreement entered into in December 2015 (the December 2015 ASR), cash paid for acquisitions and intangible assets, purchases of property and equipment and cash paid for our accrued annual compensation, which were partially offset by proceeds from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Cash Flows January 31, 2016 2015 $ Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cash used in operating activities $ (35.2 ) $ (87.3 ) $ 52.1 Cash used in investing activities (29.5 ) (140.9 ) 111.4 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (182.3 ) 57.8 (240.1 ) We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by or used in our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based license revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. Cash used in operating activities . Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was lower compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the timing of billings and collections. Cash used in investing activities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was lower compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 , primarily due to lower purchases of short-term investments 27 Table of Contents of $93.5 million, higher proceeds from the sales of our short-term investments of $32.5 million, partially offset by cash paid for acquisitions and intangible assets, net of cash acquired, of $18.9 million. Cash provided by (used in) financing activities. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2015 , primarily due to $220.0 million lower proceeds from the draw down of our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and a $20.0 million increase in our purchases of treasury stock and equity forward contract under our accelerated share repurchase agreements, partially offset by a $15.2 million decrease for repayment of debt. Accounts Receivable, net January 31, 2016 October 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Accounts Receivable, net $ 354.8 $ 385.7 $ (30.9 ) (8 )% Our accounts receivable and days sales outstanding (DSO) are primarily driven by our billing and collections activities. Our DSO was 57 days at January 31, 2016 , and 60 days at October 31, 2015 . Accounts receivable decreased primarily due to the timing of billings to customers and collections. Working Capital . Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets: January 31, 2016 October 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 1,200.5 $ 1,468.8 $ (268.3 ) (18 )% Current liabilities 1,433.3 1,578.4 (145.1 ) (9 )% Working capital $ (232.8 ) $ (109.6 ) $ (123.2 ) 112 % Decreases in our working capital were primarily due to (1) a decrease of $259.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, (2) a decrease of $30.9 million in accounts receivable, net, and (3) a $22.5 million increase in short-term debt. These decreases in working capital were partially offset by (1) a decrease of $130.7 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due to timing of disbursements, (2) a decrease of $33.7 million in deferred revenue and (3) an increase of $19.8 million in prepaid and other current assets. Other CommitmentsCredit Facility On February 17, 2012, we entered into an agreement with several lenders (the Credit Agreement) providing for (i) a $350.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) and (ii) a $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the Term Loan). Principal payments on a portion of the Term Loan are due in equal quarterly installments of $7.5 million, with the remainder due in October 2016. We can elect to make prepayments on the Term Loan, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. On May 19, 2015, the Credit Agreement was amended and restated in order to increase the size of the Revolver from $350.0 million to $500.0 million and to extend the termination date of the Revolver from October 14, 2016 to May 19, 2020. The amended and restated Credit Agreement also replaced a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a minimum specified level of cash with a covenant requiring a minimum interest coverage ratio. Subject to obtaining additional commitments from lenders, the principal amount of the loans provided under the amended and restated Credit Agreement may be increased by us by up to an additional $150.0 million through May 2019. The amended and restated Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to operate within a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of January 31, 2016 , we are in compliance with all financial covenants. As of January 31, 2016 , we had a $37.5 million outstanding balance under the Term Loan and a $190.0 million outstanding balance under the Revolver, all of which is considered short term. As of October 31, 2015 , we had a $45.0 million outstanding balance under the Term Loan and a $160.0 million outstanding balance under the Revolver, all of which was considered short term. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the amended and restated Credit Agreement. As of January 31, 2016 , borrowings under the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR +1.125% and the applicable interest rate for the Revolver was LIBOR +1.000% . In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.125% and 0.200% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. 28 Table of Contents Other Our available-for-sale securities as of January 31, 2016 consist of investment-grade U.S. government agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds, and others. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. As of January 31, 2016 , we had no direct holdings in structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities or collateralized debt obligations and no exposure to these financial instruments through our indirect holdings in money market mutual funds. During the three months ended January 31, 2016 , we had no impairment charge associated with our available-for-sale securities portfolio. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we regularly review our investments and associated risk profiles, which we believe will allow us to effectively manage the risks of our investment portfolio. We proactively manage our cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations, and available credit under our Revolver will satisfy our routine business requirements for at least the next twelve months and the foreseeable future. 29 Table of Contents