Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Any statements herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. For example, words such as may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, "forecast," or the negatives of such terms, and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to, statements concerning expected growth in the semiconductor and 22 Table of Contents electronics industries, and the effects of consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, our business outlook, our business model, our growth strategy, the ability of our prior acquisitions to drive revenue growth, the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated from operations, our future liquidity requirements, and other statements that involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, time frames or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those identified below in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Synopsys or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. The following summary of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 , as filed with the SEC on December 14, 2017. Overview Business Summary Synopsys, Inc. provides software, intellectual property, and services used by designers across the entire silicon to software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their applications. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than design those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to develop the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that are used to improve the security and quality of software code in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, media, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. Our EDA and IP customers are generally semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our solutions help these companies overcome the challenges of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while also helping them reduce their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers development process, their research and development budget and spending decisions may be affected by their business outlook and willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. In addition, a number of consolidations have taken place in the semiconductor industry over the past several years. While we do not believe customer consolidations have had a material impact on our results, the future impact of ongoing consolidation is uncertain. For a discussion of potential risks, please see the risk factor titled Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Despite global economic uncertainty, we have consistently grown our revenue since 2005. We achieved these results not only because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, but also because of our time-based revenue business model. Under this model, a substantial majority of our customers pay over time and we typically recognize this revenue over the life of the contract, which averages approximately three years. Time-based revenue consists of time-based products, maintenance and service revenue. The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. Due to our business model, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on building on our leadership in our EDA products, expanding and proliferating our IP offerings, and driving growth in the software security and quality market. As we continue to expand our product 23 Table of Contents portfolio and our total addressable market, for instance in the software security and quality space, and as hardware product sales grow, we expect to experience increased variability in our total revenue, though we expect time-based revenue to continue to represent at least 90% of all revenue other than hardware revenue. Overall, our business outlook remains solid based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy. We believe that these factors will help us continue to execute our strategies successfully. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that every five or six years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2018 will be a 53-week year and will end on November 3, 2018, which will impact our revenue, expenses and operating results. Fiscal 2017 was a 52-week year and ended on October 28, 2017. Our results of operations for the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 included 14 weeks and 13 weeks, respectively, and ended on February 3, 2018 and January 28, 2017, respectively. The extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted in approximately $46 million of additional revenue, and approximately $34 million of additional expenses. For presentation purposes, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes refer to the closest calendar month end. Financial Performance Summary In the first quarter of fiscal 2018 , compared to the same period of fiscal 2017 : Revenues were $769.4 million, an increase of $116.6 million, or 18%, primarily driven by the overall growth in our business mainly due to higher TSL license revenue, and the first quarter of fiscal 2018 having an extra week. Total cost of revenue and operating expenses were $661.7 million, an increase of $105.8 million, or 19%, primarily due to increases in headcount, including those from acquisitions, and an extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Operating income of $107.7 million, an increase of $10.8 million or 11%. Provision for income taxes was $123.8 million, an increase of $102.0 million, primarily driven by the charges related to the enactment of the Tax Act. As a result, we had a net loss of $3.7 million compared to net income of $86.6 million. During the three-month period ended January 31, 2018 , 88% of our revenue was time-based. Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). This ASU requires an entity to recognize revenue when goods are transferred or services are provided to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU also requires disclosures enabling users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Since the issuance of Topic 606, the FASB has issued several amendments to the ASU, including amendments that defer the initially proposed adoption date, clarify accounting for licenses of intellectual property, and identify performance obligations. Topic 606 will be effective for us beginning in fiscal 2019, including interim periods within that reporting period. The ASU permits two retrospective methods for adoption. We will adopt Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method under which the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance is recognized at the date of initial application. Under the modified retrospective transition method, we will evaluate each contract that is effective on the adoption date as if that contract had been accounted for under Topic 606 from contract inception. Some revenue that would have been recognized in future periods under Topic 605 will be recast under Topic 606 as if the revenue had been recognized in prior periods. As this transition method requires that we do not adjust historical reported revenue amounts, the revenue that would have been recognized under this method prior to the adoption date will be a cumulative catch-up adjustment to retained earnings and will not be recognized as revenue in future periods as 24 Table of Contents previously planned. Because we expect that a slightly lower percentage of our revenue will be recognized over time under Topic 606, we expect to have a small percentage of our year-end backlog to be adjusted to retained earnings upon adoption. We derive the majority of our total revenue from Technology Subscription License (TSL) contracts. We believe that the promised licenses of software (i.e., functional intellectual property) and the promise to provide substantive, timely, and technologically relevant updates and services in our TSL contracts reflect inputs to a combined item that represents a single overall promise to provide customer access to a suite of EDA software in an integrated solution that will evolve as our customers industries evolve through rapid technology changes. Accordingly, we have concluded that this single overall promise will be recognized as revenue over the term of the contract period. Accordingly, we expect that there will be not be a material change in the nature and timing of revenue recognition for our TSL contracts under Topic 606. The timing of revenue recognition for our upfront products, maintenance and professional services is expected to remain substantially unchanged. We continue to assess all potential impacts of Topic 606 on other multiple element software arrangements that combine many software-related deliverables. As the requirement to have VSOE for undelivered elements is not necessary to separate revenue from delivered software licenses, which is an essential criterion for separation under the current revenue standard, revenue would no longer be recognized over the arrangement period for certain of our term licenses and IP licenses. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of these changes on the remainder of our arrangements. Topic 606 also requires the deferral of incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. This will require us to capitalize incremental costs such as commissions and other costs directly related to obtaining customer contracts and amortize those costs over the period the assets are expected to contribute future cash flows. As commissions paid for renewals are commensurate with the amounts paid for initial contracts, the deferred incremental costs will be recognized over the contract term. Under the existing rules, we expense commissions based on shipments. We do not expect this change to have a material impact to our commission expenses. We are currently implementing processes and controls to assist in the adoption of Topic 606. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)," which supersedes the lease requirements in "Leases (Topic 840)." This ASU requires a lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease payment liability for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. This ASU also makes some changes to lessor accounting and aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. This ASU will be effective for us in fiscal 2020, including interim periods within that reporting period, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, "Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. This ASU requires the immediate recognition of current and deferred income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. This ASU will be effective for us in fiscal 2019, including interim periods within that reporting period, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities." This ASU requires expanded hedge accounting for risk components and refining the measurement of hedge results to better reflect an entity's hedging strategies. This ASU also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how entities assess hedge effectiveness. This ASU will be effective for fiscal 2020, including interim periods within that reporting period, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial results under the heading Results of Operations below are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: 25 Table of Contents Revenue recognition; Valuation of business combinations; Valuation of intangible assets; and Income taxes. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 , filed with the SEC on December 14, 2017. Results of Operations Revenue Background We generate our revenue from the sale of products that include software licenses, maintenance and services, and to a lesser extent, hardware products. Software license revenue consists of fees associated with the licensing of our software. Maintenance and service revenue consists of maintenance fees associated with perpetual licenses and hardware products, and professional services fees. Hardware revenue consists of sales of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)-based emulation and prototyping products. Most of our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, bundled with post-contract customer support and additional meaningful rights that provide a complete end-to-end solution to the customer. Throughout the contract, our customers are typically using a myriad of products to complete each phase of a chip design and are concurrently working on multiple chip designs, or projects, in different phases of the design. During this time, the customer looks to us to release state-of-the-art technology as we keep up with the pace of change, to address requested enhancements to our tools to meet customer specifications, to provide support at each stage of the customers design, including the final manufacturing of the chip (the tape-out stage), and other important services. With respect to software licenses, we primarily utilize two license types: Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs). TSLs are time-based licenses for a finite term, and generally provide the customer limited rights to receive, or to exchange certain quantities of licensed software for, unspecified future technology. The majority of our arrangements are TSLs due to the nature of the business and customer requirements. In addition to the licenses, the arrangements also include: post-contract customer support, which includes providing frequent updates and upgrades to maintain the utility of the software due to rapid changes in technology; other intertwined services such as multiple copies of the tools; assisting our customers in applying our technology in their development environment; and rights to remix licenses for other licenses. Perpetual licenses. Perpetual licenses continue as long as the customer renews maintenance plus an additional 20 years. Perpetual licenses do not provide the customer any rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. Customers purchase maintenance separately for the first year and may renew annually. For the two software license types, we recognize revenue as follows: TSLs. We typically recognize revenue from TSL fees ratably over the term of the license period, or as customer installments become due and payable, whichever is later. Revenue attributable to TSLs is reported as time-based products revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from perpetual licenses in full upon shipment of the software if payment terms require the customer to pay at least 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee within one year from shipment and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue attributable to these perpetual licenses is reported as upfront products revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. For perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fee and 100% of the maintenance fee is payable within one year from shipment, we recognize revenue as customer installments become due and payable. Such revenue is reported as time-based products revenue in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Under current accounting rules and policies, we recognize revenue from orders we receive for software licenses, services and hardware products at varying times. In most instances, we recognize revenue on a TSL software license order over the license term and on a term or perpetual software license order in the quarter in which the license is delivered. The 26 Table of Contents weighted-average term of the TSLs and term licenses is typically three years, but varies from quarter to quarter due to the nature and timing of the arrangements entered into during the quarter. For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 , the weighted-average license term was 3.0 and 2.8 years, respectively. Revenue on contracts requiring significant modification or development is accounted for using the percentage of completion method over the period of the development. Revenue on hardware product orders is generally recognized in full at the time the product is shipped and when title is transferred. Contingent revenue is recognized if and when the event that removes the contingency occurs. Revenue on maintenance orders is recognized ratably over the maintenance period (normally one year). Revenue on professional services orders is generally recognized as the services are performed. Infrequently, we enter into certain license arrangements wherein licenses are provided for a finite term without any other services or rights, including rights to receive, or to exchange licensed software for, unspecified future technology. We recognize revenue from these term licenses in full upon shipment of the software and when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our revenue in any period is equal to the sum of our time-based products, upfront products, and maintenance and services revenue for the period. We derive time-based products revenue largely from TSL orders received and delivered in prior quarters and to a smaller extent from contracts in which revenue is recognized as customer installments become due and payable and from contingent revenue arrangements. We derive upfront products revenue directly from term and perpetual license and hardware product orders mostly booked and shipped during the period. We derive maintenance revenue largely from maintenance orders received in prior periods since our maintenance orders generally yield revenue ratably over a term of one year. We also derive professional services revenue primarily from orders received in prior quarters, since we recognize revenue from professional services as those services are delivered and accepted or on percentage of completion for arrangements requiring significant modification of our software, and not when they are booked. Our revenue is sensitive to the mix of TSLs and perpetual licenses delivered during a reporting period. A TSL order typically yields lower current quarter revenue but contributes to revenue in future periods. For example, a $120,000 order for a three-year TSL delivered on the last day of a quarter typically generates no revenue in that quarter, but $10,000 in each of the 12 succeeding quarters. Conversely, a $120,000 order for perpetual licenses with greater than 75% of the license fee due within one year from shipment typically generates $120,000 in revenue in the quarter the product is delivered, but no future revenue. Additionally, revenue in a particular quarter may also be impacted by perpetual licenses in which less than 75% of the license fees and 100% of the maintenance fees are payable within one year from shipment as the related revenue will be recognized as revenue in the period when customer payments become due and payable. Most of our customer arrangements are complex, involving hundreds of products and various license rights, and our customers bargain with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they often demand a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in a highly competitive EDA market. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 769.4 $ 652.8 $ 116.6 18 % Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements, including payment terms and the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience variability in our revenue due to factors such as the timing of IP consulting projects, royalties, variability in hardware sales and due to certain contracts where revenue is recognized when customer installment payments are due. As revenue from hardware sales is recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such hardware may result in increased variability of our total revenue. 27 Table of Contents The increase in total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to the overall growth in our business mainly due to higher TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods, and due to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 having an extra week, compared to fiscal 2017, which resulted in additional revenue of approximately $46 million. Time-Based Products Revenue January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 570.9 $ 489.4 $ 81.5 17 % Percentage of total revenue 74 % 75 % The increase in time-based products revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue due to arrangements booked in prior periods, and the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. Upfront Products Revenue January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 91.6 $ 79.6 $ 12.0 15 % Percentage of total revenue 12 % 12 % Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The increase in upfront products revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in the sale of hardware products driven by timing of customer requirements. As our sales of hardware products grow, upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate modestly. Such fluctuations will continue to be impacted by the timing of shipments due to customer requirements. Maintenance and Service Revenue January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Maintenance revenue $ 25.3 $ 19.4 $ 5.9 30 % Professional services and other revenue 81.6 64.4 17.2 27 % Total maintenance and service revenue $ 106.9 $ 83.8 $ 23.1 28 % Percentage of total revenue 14 % 13 % The increase in maintenance revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase in the volume of arrangements that include maintenance. The increase in professional services and other revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in consulting projects, including contributions from acquisitions, and to a lesser extent, the impact of the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We expect our professional services revenue to increase in future periods as a result of recent acquisitions, but we do not expect the impact to be material to our total revenue. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cost of products revenue $ 111.4 $ 97.0 $ 14.4 15 % Cost of maintenance and service revenue 50.8 37.2 13.6 37 % Amortization of intangible assets 19.0 21.5 (2.5 ) (12 )% Total $ 181.2 $ 155.7 $ 25.5 16 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 24 % We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. We segregate expenses directly associated with consulting and training services from cost of products revenue associated with internal functions providing license delivery and post-customer contract support services. We then allocate these group costs between cost of products revenue and cost of maintenance and service revenue based on products and maintenance and service revenue reported. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution costs, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that had reached technological feasibility. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes operating costs related to maintaining the infrastructure necessary to operate our services and costs to deliver our consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. We expect our cost of maintenance and service revenue to increase in future periods because of recent acquisitions, but we do not expect the impact to be material to our total cost of revenue. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost of revenue and operating expenses, includes the amortization of core/developed technology, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, covenants not to compete related to acquisitions and certain contract rights related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to increases of $13.5 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions, one additional week of expenses of approximately $4.5 million, $2.0 million in hardware product costs due to increases in, and timing of, shipments, and $3.0 million in costs related to servicing IP consulting arrangements, which were partially offset by a decrease of $2.5 million in amortization of intangible assets. Changes in other cost of revenue categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Operating Expenses Research and Development January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 264.4 $ 212.6 $ 51.8 24 % Percentage of total revenue 34 % 33 % The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to increases of $25.6 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, including those from acquisitions, one additional week of expenses of approximately $19.3 million, and functionally allocated expenses that were higher by $3.5 million. Changes in other research and development expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. 29 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 150.5 $ 126.5 $ 24.0 19 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 19 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to increases of $13.1 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, one additional week of expenses of approximately $5.8 million, and $2.1 million in variable compensation, primarily based on timing of shipments. Changes in other sales and marketing expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. General and Administrative January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended $ 56.4 $ 40.9 $ 15.5 38 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 6 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to increases of $5.6 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases, $7.7 million in professional service costs, and one additional week of expenses of approximately $4.1 million. Changes in other general and administrative expense categories for the above-mentioned periods were not individually material. Amortization of Intangible Assets January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Included in cost of revenue $ 19.0 $ 21.5 $ (2.5 ) (12 )% Included in operating expenses 9.5 8.0 1.5 19 % Total $ 28.5 $ 29.5 $ (1.0 ) (3 )% Percentage of total revenue 4 % 5 % Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 was relatively flat primarily due to intangible assets that were fully amortized, offset by additions of acquired intangible assets. See Note 4 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a schedule of future amortization amounts. Restructuring Charges During the three months ended January 31, 2017 , we recorded restructuring charges of $12.1 million. See Note 7 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our restructuring charges. 30 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), net January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Interest income $ 1.6 $ 1.2 $ 0.4 33 % Interest (expense) (2.8 ) (1.3 ) (1.5 ) 115 % Gain (loss) on assets related to executive deferred compensation plan 13.4 7.8 5.6 72 % Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) (1.0 ) 3.2 (4.2 ) (131 )% Other, net 1.2 0.6 0.6 100 % Total $ 12.4 $ 11.5 $ 0.9 8 % Other income (expense), net, for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 remained relatively flat, primarily due to higher gains in the market value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to gains in the same period of fiscal 2017, as a result of the weakened U.S. dollar against the related foreign currencies. Taxes Our effective tax rate increased in the three months ended January 31, 2018 , as compared to the same period in fiscal 2017, primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act") enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, our statutory federal corporate tax rate is a blended rate of 23.4%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. We have made provisional estimates of the accounting impacts of certain provisions of the Tax Act. We continue to obtain, analyze and interpret additional guidance issued and will revise our estimates as additional information becomes available. The provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until the accounting is finalized, which will occur no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, we remeasured our deferred taxes, resulting in a provisional tax charge of $46 million based on the tax rate that will apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods. As part of the adoption of new territorial tax system, the Tax Act requires us to pay a one-time transition tax on previously untaxed earnings and profits of certain of our foreign subsidiaries at a rate of 15.5% on such earnings represented by foreign cash and certain other net current assets, and 8% on the remaining earnings, in each case reduced by certain foreign tax credits. We have recorded a provisional transition tax expense of $71 million, as well as $2 million of provisional state taxes on these earnings, and income taxes payable of $78 million. We intend to elect to pay the federal transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act. As part of the adoption of a territorial tax system, the Tax Act also provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. We have provided for U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. For further discussion of the provision for income taxes and impacts related to the Tax Act, see Note 15 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our sources of cash and cash equivalents are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of January 31, 2018 , we held an aggregate of $146.4 million in cash and cash equivalents in the United States and an aggregate of $459.5 million in our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, we have recorded a provisional tax liability for the transition tax on foreign earnings, payable over eight years, of $76 million reflected as a long-term liability, as well as state taxes of $2 million. If we decide to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the U.S. in the future, the earnings that were subject to the transition tax would not be subject to further U.S. tax. In addition, we have provided state and foreign deferred taxes on our undistributed earnings sufficient to address the incremental tax that would be due on future foreign earnings. The following sections discuss changes in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of cash flows, and other commitments of our liquidity and capital resources during the three months ended January 31, 2018 . Cash and Cash Equivalents January 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 605.9 $ 1,048.4 $ (442.5 ) (42 )% Cash and cash equivalents decreased primarily due to cash used for acquisitions, stock repurchases under our accelerated stock repurchase agreements (the December 2017 ASRs), cash used in our operations, and purchases of property and equipment. Cash used was partially offset by net proceeds from our credit facilities. Cash Flows January 31, 2018 2017 $ Change (dollars in millions) Three months ended Cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (59.4 ) $ 46.9 $ (106.3 ) Cash (used in) investing activities (625.0 ) (202.8 ) (422.2 ) Cash provided by financing activities 230.4 15.9 214.5 We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by or used in our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. Cash (used in) provided by operating activities . Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was $59.4 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of $46.9 million in the same period in fiscal 2017 , primarily due to higher disbursements for operations, including vendors and tax payments, partially offset by an increase in cash collections. Cash used in investing activities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 , primarily due to higher cash paid for acquisitions of $420.7 million. Cash provided by financing activities. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was higher compared to the same period in fiscal 2017 , primarily due to higher proceeds from our credit facilities, net of repayments, of $313.1 million, partially offset by higher stock repurchase activities of $100.0 million. 32 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable, net January 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Accounts Receivable, net $ 499.4 $ 451.1 $ 48.3 11 % Our accounts receivable and days sales outstanding (DSO) are primarily driven by our billing and collections activities. Our DSO was 64 days at January 31, 2018 and 59 days at October 31, 2017 . Accounts receivable and DSO increased primarily due to the timing of billings to customers. Working Capital Working capital is comprised of current assets less current liabilities, as shown on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets: January 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in millions) Current assets $ 1,332.3 $ 1,682.6 $ (350.3 ) (21 )% Current liabilities 1,950.4 1,614.1 336.3 21 % Working capital $ (618.1 ) $ 68.5 $ (686.6 ) (1,002 )% Decreases in our working capital were primarily due to a decrease of $442.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, and an increase in short term debt of $431.0 million, which were partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $150.5 million. Other CommitmentsCredit Facility On November 28, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with several lenders (the Credit Agreement) providing for (i) a $650.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) and (ii) a $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the Term Loan). The Credit Agreement amended and restated our previous credit agreement dated May 19, 2015 (the 2015 Agreement), in order to increase the size of the revolving credit facility from $500.0 million to $650.0 million , provide a new $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility, and to extend the termination date of the revolving credit facility from May 19, 2020 to November 28, 2021. Subject to obtaining additional commitments from lenders, the principal amount of the loans provided under the Credit Agreement may be increased by us by up to an additional $150.0 million . The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring the Company to operate within a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of January 31, 2018 , we were in compliance with all financial covenants. As of January 31, 2018 , we had a $142.1 million outstanding balance, net of debt issuance costs, under the Term Loan, of which $131.3 million is classified as long-term liabilities. Outstanding principal payments under the Term Loan are due as follows: Fiscal year (in thousands) Remainder of fiscal 2018 $ 8,438 2019 14,062 2020 17,813 2021 27,187 2022 75,000 Total $ 142,500 As of October 31, 2017 , we had a $144.0 million outstanding balance, net of debt issuance costs, under the Term Loan, of which $134.1 million is classified as long-term liabilities, and no outstanding balance under the Revolver. In December 2017, we drew down $450.0 million under the Revolver and the total outstanding balance of the Revolver as of January 31, 2018 was $430.0 million , which is included in short-term liabilities. We expect the borrowings under the Revolver will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate 33 Table of Contents based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. As of January 31, 2018 , borrowings under the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR +1.125% and the applicable interest rate for the Revolver was LIBOR +1.000% . In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.125% and 0.200% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. Other As of January 31, 2018 , our cash equivalents consisted of taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. We proactively manage our cash equivalents balances and closely monitor our capital and stock repurchase expenditures to ensure ample liquidity. Additionally, we believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents, invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. The majority of our investments are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as measured under fair value guidance. See Notes 5 and 6 of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and available credit under our Revolver will satisfy our routine business requirements for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. 34 Table of Contents