Item 7. Managements Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Certain capitalized terms used in this Annual Report are defined in the Glossary following Item 16. Market and Industry Data Unless otherwise indicated, information in this Annual Report concerning economic conditions, our industry, our markets and our competitive position is based on a variety of sources, including information from independent industry analysts and publications, as well as our own estimates and research. Our estimates are derived from publicly available information released by third-party sources, as well as data from our internal research, which we believe to be reasonable. None of the independent industry publications used in this Annual Report were prepared on our behalf. Trademarks We or our licensors have proprietary rights to trademarks, trade names and service marks used in this Annual Report. Solely for convenience, trademarks, trade names and service marks referred to in this Annual Report may appear without the or symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent possible under applicable law, our rights or the rights of the applicable licensor to these trademarks, trade names and service marks. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trademarks, trade names or service marks to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies. Each trademark, trade name or service mark of any other company appearing in this Annual Report is the property of its respective holder. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the federal securities laws. Taboolas forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Taboola or its management teams expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, appear, approximate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, foresee, intends, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, seek, should, would and similar expressions (or the negative version of such words or expressions) may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report may include, for example, statements about: our financial performance; and the outcome of any known and unknown litigation and regulatory proceedings. These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Annual Report, and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. As a result of a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our actual results or performance may be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 2 Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the material risks we are exposed to in the course of our business activities. The below summary does not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read the below summary together with the more detailed discussion of risks set forth under the heading Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report. Taboola may be unable to attract new digital properties and Advertisers, sell additional offerings to its existing digital properties and Advertisers, or maintain enough business with its existing digital properties and Advertisers; If Taboolas performance under contracts with digital properties where Taboola is obligated to pay a specified minimum guaranteed amount per thousand impressions does not meet the minimum guarantee requirements, its gross profit could be negatively impacted and its results of operations and financial condition could be harmed; If the Yahoo partnership and our ability to transition and fully launch the native advertising service with Yahoo is not successful or implemented on the currently projected timeframe, the partnership may not be as financially accretive as we are projecting and our business, operating results or financial condition and our reputation could be adversely affected; Taboola may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors; Taboolas future growth and success depends on its ability to continue to scale its existing offerings and to introduce new solutions that gain acceptance and that differentiate it from its competitors; If Taboola fails to make the right investment decisions in its offerings and technology platform, or if Taboola is unable to generate or otherwise obtain sufficient funds to invest in them, Taboola may not attract and retain digital properties and Advertisers; If Taboolas ability to personalize its advertisements and content to users is restricted or prohibited due to various privacy or data protection laws or regulations, Taboola could lose digital properties and Advertisers; If Taboolas AI powered platform fails to accurately predict what ads and content would be of most interest to users or if Taboola fails to continue to improve on its ability to further predict or optimize user engagement or conversion rates for its Advertisers, its performance could decline and Taboola could lose digital properties and Advertisers; Taboolas business depends on continued engagement by users who interact with its platform on various digital properties; Historically, the majority of Taboolas agreements with digital properties have typically required them to provide it exclusivity or other incentives based on preferred usage, for the term of the agreement; to the extent that such exclusivity is reduced or eliminated for any reason, digital properties could elect to implement competitive platforms or services that could be detrimental to its performance; Taboolas business depends on strong brands and well-known digital properties, and failing to maintain and enhance its brands and well-known digital properties would hurt its ability to expand its number of Advertisers and digital properties; Taboola is a multinational organization faced with complex and changing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, content, competition, consumer protection, and other matters; Conditions in Israel could adversely affect Taboolas business; Natural disasters, political events, war, terrorism and the emergence of another pandemic, each of which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations;and Other risks and uncertainties set forth in the section entitled Risk Factors in this Annual Report. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Forward Looking Statements 2 Risk Factor Summary 3 Part I Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 57 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 57 Item 2. Properties 58 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 58 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 58 Part II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters And Issuer Purchases Of Equity Securities 59 Item 6. [Reserved] 60 Item 7. Managements Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations 60