Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Business We are a leading developer, publisher and marketer of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. We develop and publish products through our two wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K. Our products are currently designed for console gaming systems such as Sony's PlayStation3 ("PS3"), Microsoft's Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360") and Nintendo's Wii ("Wii") and Wii U ("Wii U"); handheld gaming systems such as Nintendo's DS ("DS") and Sony's PlayStation Portable ("PSP"); and personal computers including smartphones and tablets. We deliver our products through physical retail, digital download, online platforms and cloud streaming services. We endeavor to be the most creative, innovative and efficient company in our industry. Our core strategy is to capitalize on the popularity of video games by developing and publishing high-quality interactive entertainment experiences across a range of genres. We focus on building compelling entertainment franchises by publishing a select number of titles for which we can create sequels and add-on content. Most of our intellectual property is internally owned and developed, which we believe best positions us financially and competitively. We have established a portfolio of proprietary software content for the major hardware platforms in a wide range of genres, including action, adventure, family/casual, racing, role-playing, shooter, sports and strategy, which we distribute worldwide. We believe that our commitment to creativity and innovation is a distinguishing strength, enabling us to differentiate our products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired or licensed a group of highly recognizable brands to match the broad consumer demographics we serve, ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers. Another cornerstone of our strategy is to support the success of our products in the marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on all platforms and through all channels that are relevant to our target audience. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third-parties for our benefit. Operating margins are dependent in part upon our ability to continually release new, commercially successful software products and to effectively manage their development costs. We have internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of the Grand Theft Auto , Max Payne , Midnight Club , Red Dead and other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action / adventure product category and create groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing titles as well as developing new brands. We believe that Rockstar has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with its Grand Theft Auto series, which is the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand and has sold-in over 127 million units. Rockstar continues to expand on our established franchises by developing sequels, offering downloadable episodes and content, and releasing titles for smartphones and tablets such as Grand Theft Auto III10 th Anniversary Edition , Max Payne Mobile , and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City 10 th Anniversary Edition . In May 2011, Rockstar released the commercially successful and critically acclaimed L.A. Noire , which became the first video game ever chosen as an official selection of the Tribeca Film Festival and has become another key franchise for the Company. Rockstar is also well known for developing brands in other genres, including the Bully and Manhunt franchises. Our 2K label has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across all key platforms and across a range of genres including shooter, action, role-playing, strategy, sports and family/casual entertainment. We expect 2K to continue to develop new and successful franchises in the future. 28 Table of Contents 2K's internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling BioShock , Mafia , and Sid Meier's Civilization series. 2K also publishes highly successful externally developed franchises, such as Borderlands . 2K successfully launched Borderlands 2 in September 2012 and is supporting the title with a robust add-on content campaign. In addition, in October 2012, 2K released XCOM: Enemy Unknown, which, along with Borderlands 2 and NBA 2K13 , was among the ten highest-rated console video game releases of 2012 based on average review score on Metacritic.com. XCOM: Enemy Unknown is being supported with add-on content and we expect the title to become another successful franchise for the Company. 2K publishes a range of realistic sports simulation titles, including our flagship NBA 2K series, which has been the top-ranked NBA basketball video game for 12 years running, the Major League Baseball 2K series, and our Top Spin tennis series. We develop most of our sports simulations software titles through our internal development studios. 2K has secured long-term licensing agreements with the National Basketball Association ("NBA"). In addition, in February 2013, 2K entered into an exclusive multi-year agreement with WWE to publish the WWE video game franchise worldwide. 2K also develops and publishes titles for the casual and family-friendly games market. Internally developed titles include Carnival Games and Let's Cheer! . 2K also has an agreement with Nickelodeon to publish video games based on its top rated Nick Jr. titles such as Dora the Explorer , Go, Diego, Go! , Ni Hao, Kai-lan and The Backyardigans . Throughout the summer and fall of 2012, 2K released a new slate of casual mobile games, including Comedy Central's Indecision Game , House Pest Starring Fiasco the Cat , Gridblock and Herd, Herd, Herd . We also have expansion initiatives in the rapidly growing Asia markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea. 2K has secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of the NBA simulation game in China, Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. In October 2012, NBA 2K Online , our free-to-play NBA simulation game co-developed by 2K and Tencent, launched commercially on the Tencent Games portal in China. In May 2013, Pro Baseball 2K , our online baseball simulation game co-developed by 2K and Nexon Corporation, launched commercially in Korea. In addition, during the summer of 2012, 2K released our first mobile social game for Japan, NBA 2K All Stars on the GREE social platform. Discontinued operations In February 2010, we completed the sale to SYNNEX Corporation ("Synnex") of our Jack of All Games third-party distribution business, which primarily distributed third-party interactive entertainment software, hardware and accessories in North America for approximately $44.0 million, including $37.3 million in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, and up to an additional $6.7 million, subject to the achievement of certain items, which were not met. In April 2011, we settled on the purchase price adjustments and as a result the purchase price was lowered by $1.5 million. Consequently, the net purchase price after the settlement was $35.8 million. The financial results of this business, which were previously reported as our distribution business, have been classified as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of this business are reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. Trends and Factors Affecting our Business Product Release Schedule. Our financial results are affected by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. Our Grand Theft Auto products in particular have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales of Grand Theft Auto products generated approximately 29 Table of Contents 11.3% of the Company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The timing of our Grand Theft Auto releases varies significantly, which in turn may affect our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis. Economic Environment and Retailer Performance. We continue to monitor economic conditions that may unfavorably affect our businesses, such as deteriorating consumer demand, pricing pressure on our products, credit quality of our receivables, and foreign currency exchange rates. Our business is dependent upon a limited number of customers who account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for 52.5%, 43.9% and 43.8% of net revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of March 31, 2013 and 2012, our five largest customers comprised approximately 57.2% and 61.3% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively, with our significant customers (those that individually comprised more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance) accounting for approximately 30.5% and 40.6% of such balance at March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The economic environment has affected our customers in the past, and may do so in the future. Bankruptcies or consolidations of our large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, due to uncollectible accounts receivables and the concentration of purchasing power among the remaining large retailers. Certain of our large customers sell used copies of our games, which may negatively affect our business by reducing demand for new copies of our games. While the downloadable content that we now offer for certain of our titles may serve to reduce used game sales, we expect used game sales to continue to adversely affect our business. Hardware Platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third-parties, such as Sony's PS3, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Nintendo's Wii, which comprised approximately 79.5% of the Company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The success of our business is dependent upon the consumer acceptance of these platforms and the continued growth in the installed base of these platforms. When new hardware platforms are introduced, demand for software based on older platforms declines, which may negatively affect our business. In February 2013, Sony announced that it intends to launch PlayStation 4, its next-generation computer entertainment system, by the 2013 year-end holiday buying season. We continually monitor console hardware sales, as well as the development of "next-generation" consoles. We manage our product delivery on each current and future platform in a manner we believe to be most effective to maximize our revenue opportunities and achieve the desired return on our investments in product development. Additionally, our development costs are generally higher for titles based on new platforms, and we have limited ability to predict the consumer acceptance of the new platforms, which may affect our sales and profitability. As a result, our strategy is to focus our development efforts on a select number of the highest quality titles for these platforms, while also expanding our offerings for emerging platforms such as mobile and online games. Online Content and Digital Distribution. The interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content through digital online delivery methods. We provide a variety of online delivered products and offerings. A number of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct digital download through the Internet (from websites we own and others owned by third-parties). We also offer downloadable add-on content to our packaged goods titles. In addition, we are publishing an expanding variety of titles for tablets and smartphones, which are delivered to consumers through digital download through the Internet. Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, "Segment and Geographic Information," discloses that net revenue from digital online channels comprised approximately 21.1% of the Company's net revenue by distribution channel for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. We expect online delivery of games and game offerings to become an increasing part of our business over the long-term. 30 Table of Contents Product Releases We released the following key titles in fiscal year 2013: Max Payne 3 Rockstar Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360 May 15, 2012 Max Payne 3 Rockstar Games Internal PC June 1, 2012 Spec Ops: The Line 2K External PS3, Xbox 360, PC June 26, 2012 Borderlands 2 2K External PS3, Xbox 360, PC September 18, 2012 NBA 2K13 2K Internal PS3, PSP, Xbox 360, Wii, PC October 2, 2012 XCOM: Enemy Unknown 2K Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC October 9, 2012 NBA 2K13 2K Internal Wii U November 19, 2012 Major League Baseball 2K13 2K Internal PS3, Xbox 360 March 5, 2013 BioShock Infinite 2K Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC March 26, 2013 Product Pipeline We have announced the following key titles to date (this list does not represent all titles currently in development): The Bureau: XCOM Declassified 2K Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC August 20, 2013 Grand Theft Auto V Rockstar Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360 September 17, 2013 NBA 2K14 2K Internal To be announced October 1, 2013 WWE 2K14 2K External PS3, Xbox 360 October 29, 2013 Fiscal 2013 Financial Summary Our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 net revenue was led by titles from a variety of our top franchises, including Borderlands 2 , NBA 2K13 , Grand Theft Auto products, BioShock Infinite and Max Payne 3 . Our net revenue increased to $1,214.5 million, an increase of $388.7 million or 47.1% from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, our net loss was $29.5 million, as compared to a net loss of $108.8 million in the prior year. Net loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was $0.34, as compared to a net loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 of $1.31. Our decreased net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was primarily as a result of (1) an increase of $388.7 million in net revenue, (2) an increase of 5 points in our gross profit as a percent of net revenue and (3) a decrease of 6 points in our operating expenses as a percent of net revenue, partially offset by an increase of $11.8 million in interest and other, net, expense, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. At March 31, 2013 we had $402.5 million of cash and cash equivalents, compared to $420.3 million at March 31, 2012. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents from March 31, 2012 was primarily a result of our higher accounts receivable balance at March 31, 2013, primarily reflecting the release of BioShock Infinite near the end of the fiscal year, and the purchases of fixed assets, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and accruals primarily related to BioShock Infinite and royalties payable. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and 31 Table of Contents expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are fairly presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our financial results and they require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The affect and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations is discussed throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Management has reviewed these critical accounting estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue upon the transfer of title and risk of loss to our customers. Accordingly, we recognize revenue for software titles when there is (1) persuasive evidence that an arrangement with the customer exists, which is generally based on a customer purchase order, (2) the product is delivered, (3) the selling price is fixed or determinable and (4) collection of the customer receivable is deemed probable. Certain products are sold to customers with a street date ( i.e., the earliest date these products may be sold by retailers). For these products we recognize revenue on the later of the street date or the sale date. In addition, some of our software products are sold exclusively as downloads of digital content for which the consumer takes possession of the digital content for a fee. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Our payment arrangements with customers typically provide net 30 and 60 day terms. Advances received for licensing and exclusivity arrangements are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as deferred revenue until we meet our performance obligations, at which point we recognize the revenue. We enter into multiple element revenue arrangements in which we may provide a combination of game software, additional content, maintenance or support. Assuming all other recognition criteria are met, for our software and software-related multiple element arrangements, we determine the fair value of each delivered and undelivered element using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") and allocate the total price among the various elements. Absent VSOE, revenue is deferred until the earlier of the point at which VSOE of fair value exists for any undelivered element or until all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. However, if the only undelivered element is maintenance and support, the entire arrangement fee is recognized ratably over the performance period. Changes in assumptions or judgments or changes to the elements in a software arrangement could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. We determine VSOE for each element based on historical stand-alone sales to third parties. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range. In addition, some of our software products provide limited online functionality at no additional cost to the consumer. Generally, we consider such features to be incidental to the overall product offering and an inconsequential deliverable. Accordingly, we do not defer revenue related to products containing such online features. We determine whether our products contain substantial online functionality by evaluating the significance of the development effort and the nature of the online features, the extent of anticipated marketing focus on the online features, the significance of the online features to the customers' anticipated 32 Table of Contents overall gameplay experience, and the significance of our post sale obligations to customers. Overall, online play functionality is still an emerging area for us, and we continue to monitor this developing functionality and its significance to our products. Determining whether the online functionality for a particular game constitutes more-than-an- inconsequential deliverable is subjective and require management's judgment. Certain of our software products include in-game advertising for third- party products. Advance payments received for in-game advertising are reported on the balance sheet as deferred revenue until we meet our performance obligations, at which point we recognize the revenue, which is generally at the time of the initial release of the product. Revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns, price concessions and other allowances. In circumstances when we do not have a reliable basis to estimate returns and price concessions or are unable to determine that collection of a receivable is probable, we defer the revenue until such time as we can reliably estimate any related returns and allowances and determine that collection of the receivable is probable. Allowances for Returns, Price Concessions and Other Allowances We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements. Following reductions in the price of our products, we grant price concessions to permit customers to take credits against amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. Our customers must satisfy certain conditions to entitle them to return products or receive price concessions, including compliance with applicable payment terms and confirmation of field inventory levels. Our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles or to cancel firm orders. However, we occasionally accept returns from our customers for stock balancing and make accommodations to customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific titles falls below expectations. We make estimates of future product returns and price concessions related to current period product revenue. We estimate the amount of future returns and price concessions for published titles based upon, among other factors, historical experience and performance of the titles in similar genres, historical performance of the hardware platform, customer inventory levels, analysis of sell-through rates, sales force and retail customer feedback, industry pricing, market conditions and changes in demand and acceptance of our products by consumers. Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in connection with establishing the allowance for returns and price concessions in any accounting period. We believe we can make reliable estimates of returns and price concessions. However, actual results may differ from initial estimates as a result of changes in circumstances, market conditions and assumptions. Adjustments to estimates are recorded in the period in which they become known. Software Development Costs and Licenses Capitalized software development costs include direct costs incurred for internally developed titles and payments made to third-party software developers under development agreements. We capitalize internal software development costs (including stock-based compensation, specifically identifiable employee payroll expense and incentive compensation costs related to the completion and release of titles), third-party production and other content costs, subsequent to establishing technological feasibility of a software title. Technological feasibility of a product includes the completion of both technical design documentation and game design documentation. Significant management judgments and estimates are utilized in the assessment of when technological feasibility is established. For products where proven technology exists, this may occur early in the development cycle. Technological feasibility is evaluated on a product by product basis. 33 Table of Contents We enter into agreements with third-party developers that require us to make payments for game development and production services. In exchange for these payments, we receive the exclusive publishing and distribution rights to the finished game title as well as, in some cases, the underlying intellectual property rights. Such agreements typically allow us to fully recover these payments to the developers at an agreed upon royalty rate earned on the subsequent retail sales of such software, net of any agreed upon costs. Prior to establishing technological feasibility of a product we record any costs incurred by third- party developers as research and development expenses. Subsequent to establishing technological feasibility of a product we capitalize all development and production service payments to third-party developers as software development costs and licenses. We typically enter into agreements with third-party developers after completing the technical design documentation for our products and therefore record the design costs leading up to a signed development contract as research and development expense. When we contract with third-party developers, we generally select third-party developers that have proven technology and experience in the genre of the software being developed, which often allows for the establishment of technological feasibility early in the development cycle. In instances where the documentation of the design and technology are not in place prior to an executed contract, we monitor the software development process and require our third-party developers to adhere to the same technological feasibility standards that apply to our internally developed products. Licenses consist of payments and guarantees made to holders of intellectual property rights for use of their trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights in the development of our products. Agreements with license holders generally provide for guaranteed minimum payments for use of their intellectual property. Guaranteed minimum payments are initially recorded as an asset (licenses) and as a liability (accrued licenses) upon execution of a licensing agreement, provided that no significant performance remains to be completed by the licensor. When significant performance remains to be completed by the licensor, we record payments when actually paid. Certain licenses, especially those related to our sports products, extend over multi-year periods and encompass multiple game titles. In addition to guaranteed minimum payments, these licenses frequently contain provisions that could require us to pay royalties to the license holder based on pre-agreed unit sales thresholds. Amortization of capitalized software development costs and licenses commences when a product is released and is recorded on a title-by-title basis in cost of goods sold. For capitalized software development costs, amortization is calculated using (1) the proportion of current year revenues to the total revenues expected to be recorded over the life of the title or (2) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated useful life of the title, whichever is greater. For capitalized licenses, amortization is calculated as a ratio of (1) current period revenues to the total revenues expected to be recorded over the remaining life of the title or (2) the contractual royalty rate based on actual net product sales as defined in the licensing agreement, whichever is greater. Significant management judgments and estimates are utilized in the assessment of the recoverability of capitalized software costs. At each balance sheet date, or earlier if an indicator of impairment exists, we evaluate the recoverability of capitalized software costs, licenses and any other unrecognized minimum commitments that have not been paid, using an undiscounted future cash flow analysis. We use various measures to evaluate expected product performance and estimate future revenues for our software titles including historical performance of comparable titles; orders for titles prior to release; and the estimated performance of a sequel title based on the performance of the title on which the sequel is based. When management determines that the value of a title is unlikely to be recovered by product sales, capitalized costs are charged to cost of goods sold in the period in which such determination is made. We have established profit and unit sales based internal royalty programs that provide for certain of our employees to participate in the success of software titles that they assist in developing. Royalties earned by employees under this program are recorded as cost of goods sold as they are incurred. 34 Table of Contents Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item to fairly present our Consolidated Financial Statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material influence on the conclusion of the appropriate accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset, liability or equity instrument being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively affected. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant influence on the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments: Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand and in the retail channels and record an inventory provision for excess or obsolete inventory based on the future expected demand for our products. Significant changes in demand for our products would affect management's estimates in establishing our inventory provision. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. Business CombinationsGoodwill and Intangible Assets. We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct influence on the amount to recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Often determining the fair value of these assets and liabilities assumed requires an assessment of expected use of the asset, the expected cost to extinguish the liability or our expectations related to the timing and the successful completion of development of an acquired in-process technology. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material influence on our financial statements. We use either the income, cost or market approach to aid in our conclusions of such fair values and asset lives. The income approach presumes that the value of an asset can be estimated by the net economic benefit to be received over the life of the asset, discounted to present value. The cost approach presumes that an investor would pay no more for an asset than its replacement or reproduction cost. The market approach estimates value based on what other participants in the market have paid for reasonably similar assets. Although each valuation approach is considered in valuing the assets acquired, the approach ultimately selected is based on the characteristics of the asset and the availability of information. 35 Table of Contents We evaluate our goodwill annually for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. The determination of whether or not goodwill has become impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions underlying the approach used to determine the value of our reporting units. Changes in our strategy and/or market conditions could significantly affect these judgments and require reductions to recorded intangible asset balances. Long-lived assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount and the asset's residual value, if any. In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available. We use internal discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent appraisals, as appropriate, to determine fair value. We derive the required cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment in estimating expected stock volatility and the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially affected. We have granted stock options to non-employees, which were subject to variable accounting. When variable accounting is applied to stock option grants, we re-measured the fair value of the unvested options at the end of each reporting period or until the options are cancelled or expire unexercised. Compensation expense in any given period was calculated as the difference between total earned compensation at the end of the period, less total earned compensation at the beginning of the period, both of which was based on the price of our common stock at such dates. As a result, fluctuations in the price of our common stock changed compensation expense recognized by us from period to period. We have also granted time and market-based restricted stock awards to employees and non-employees. Time-based and market-based awards to non-employees are subject to variable accounting. For the time-based restricted stock grants to non-employees, we cumulatively remeasure the fair value at the end of every period based on the month end closing price of our common stock. Market-based restricted stock awards vest based on the relative performance of our common stock to a composite index. We calculate the fair value of market-based restricted stock using a Monte Carlo Simulation method, which requires a substantial number of inputs and estimates of future market conditions and considers the range of various vesting probabilities. As a result, expense recorded for our non-employee awards can fluctuate substantially from period to period. Income Taxes We record a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred income taxes are recognized for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at currently enacted statutory tax rates for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our cumulative pre-tax loss in recent fiscal years represents sufficient evidence for us to 36 Table of Contents determine that the establishment of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset is appropriate. This valuation allowance offsets deferred tax assets associated with future tax deductions as well as carryforward items. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, our filed tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions and record tax benefits when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. At each period end, it is necessary for us to make certain estimates and assumptions to compute the provision for income taxes including allocations of certain transactions to different tax jurisdictions, amounts of permanent and temporary differences, the likelihood of deferred tax assets being recovered and the outcome of contingent tax risks. These estimates and assumptions are revised as new events occur, more experience is acquired and additional information is obtained. The effect of these revisions is recorded in income tax expense or benefit in the period in which they become known. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Comprehensive Income On April 1, 2012, the Company adopted new guidance related to the presentation of comprehensive income. The main provisions of the new guidance provide that an entity that reports items of other comprehensive income has the option to present comprehensive income as (i) a single statement that presents the components of net income and total net income, the components of other comprehensive income and total other comprehensive income and a total for comprehensive income or (ii) in two separate but consecutive statements, whereby an entity must present the components of net income and total net income in the first statement and that statement is immediately followed by a financial statement that presents the components of other comprehensive income, a total for other comprehensive income and a total for comprehensive income. The new rules eliminate the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of stockholders' equity. These new rules have been applied retrospectively and became effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2011 (April 1, 2012 for the Company), with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Reclassification of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income In February 2013, new guidance was issued requiring new disclosures about reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income. This new guidance requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other amounts that are not required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide 37 Table of Contents additional detail about those amounts. The new guidance is effective prospectively for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2012 (April 1, 2013 for the Company). We do not expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Fluctuations in Operating Results and Seasonality We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results as a result of: the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles, sequels or enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; order cancellations; and delays in product shipment. Sales of our products are also seasonal, with peak shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly and annual comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of net revenue represented by certain line items in our statements of operations, net revenue by geographic region, net revenue by platform and net revenue by distribution channel: Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 58.9 % 64.0 % 60.6 % Gross profit 41.1 % 36.0 % 39.4 % Selling and marketing 21.2 % 22.3 % 15.5 % General and administrative 12.1 % 14.7 % 9.6 % Research and development 6.4 % 7.8 % 6.1 % Depreciation and amortization 1.0 % 1.4 % 1.3 % Total operating expenses 40.7 % 46.2 % 32.5 % Income (loss) from operations 0.4 % (10.2 )% 6.9 % Interest and other, net (2.6 )% (2.4 )% (1.2 )% Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (2.2 )% (12.6 )% 5.7 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 0.4 % 0.4 % 1.0 % Income (loss) from continuing operations (2.6 )% (13.0 )% 4.7 % Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 0.2 % (0.2 )% (0.5 )% Net income (loss) (2.4 )% (13.2 )% 4.2 % Net revenue by geographic region: United States 58.5 % 54.4 % 54.5 % International 41.5 % 45.6 % 45.5 % Net revenue by platform: Console 80.4 % 85.1 % 85.7 % PC and other 17.8 % 10.6 % 9.7 % Handheld 1.8 % 4.3 % 4.6 % Net revenue by distribution channel: Physical retail and other 78.9 % 87.1 % 91.1 % Digital online 21.1 % 12.9 % 8.9 % 38 Table of Contents Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 Net revenue $ 1,214,483 100.0 % $ 825,823 100.0 % $ 388,660 47.1 % Software development costs and royalties (1) 317,756 26.2 % 164,487 19.9 % 153,269 93.2 % Product costs 316,072 26.0 % 255,236 30.9 % 60,836 23.8 % Licenses 57,285 4.7 % 74,976 9.1 % (17,691 ) (23.6 )% Internal royalties 24,724 2.0 % 34,156 4.1 % (9,432 ) (27.6 )% Cost of goods sold 715,837 58.9 % 528,855 64.0 % 186,982 35.4 % Gross profit $ 498,646 41.1 % $ 296,968 36.0 % $ 201,678 67.9 % (1) Includes $10,060 and $5,144 of stock-based compensation expense in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net revenue increased $388.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven primarily by $681.2 million in net revenue from the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, BioShock Infinite in March 2013, Max Payne 3 in May 2012, XCOM: Enemy Unknown in October 2012 and SpecOps: The Line in June 2012, as well as higher sales of our NBA 2K franchise and approximately $23.4 million in higher sales of our Grand Theft Auto franchise. These increases were partially offset by $267.6 million in lower sales of L.A. Noire , which released in May 2011, Duke Nukem Forever , which released in June 2011 and The Darkness II , which released in February 2012. Net revenue on consoles decreased to 80.4% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 85.1% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue on PC and other platforms. PC and other sales increased to 17.8% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 10.6% for the prior year primarily due to an increase in net revenue resulting from the September 2012 PC release of Borderlands 2, the March 2013 PC release of BioShock Infinite, the October 2012 PC release of XCOM: Enemy Unknown and the June 2012 PC releases of Max Payne 3 and Sid Meier's Civilization V: Gods & Kings , partially offset by the decrease in net revenue from the June 2011 PC release of Duke Nukem Forever . Handheld sales accounted for 1.8% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 4.3% for the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue on PC and other platforms. Net revenue from physical retail and other channels decreased to 78.9% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 87.1% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue from digital online channels. Net revenue from digital online channels increased to 21.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 12.9% for the prior year primarily due to the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, XCOM: Enemy Unknown in October 2012 and BioShock Infinite in March 2013, as well as higher sales of our NBA 2K and Grand Theft Auto franchises. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue increased for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to lower product costs as a percentage of net revenue primarily associated with improved pricing mix and a greater proportion of net revenue from digital online channels, lower license expense primarily associated with the renegotiated licenses for Major League Baseball 2K13 as well as lower internal royalty expense, which was primarily due to higher income generated in the prior year from the May 2011 release of L.A. Noire . Partially offsetting the increase in gross profit was higher software development costs and royalties primarily associated with the September 2012 release of Borderlands 2 and the May 2012 release of Max Payne 3 . Net revenue earned outside of the United States accounted for 41.5% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to 45.6% in the prior year. The year-over-year decrease as a 39 Table of Contents percentage of net revenue earned outside of the United States was primarily due to the September 2012 global release of Borderlands 2 , which had proportionally higher net revenue in the United States. Foreign currency exchange rates decreased net revenue and gross profit by approximately $11.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing $ 257,329 21.2 % $ 183,749 22.3 % $ 73,580 40.0 % General and administrative 147,260 12.1 % 121,200 14.7 % 26,060 21.5 % Research and development 78,184 6.4 % 64,162 7.8 % 14,022 21.9 % Depreciation and amortization 10,634 1.0 % 12,123 1.4 % (1,489 ) (12.3 )% Total operating expenses (1) $ 493,407 40.7 % $ 381,234 46.2 % $ 112,173 29.4 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense, as follows: Selling and marketing $ 5,562 $5,042 General and administrative $17,824 $19,963 Research and development $ 2,319 $3,345 Foreign currency exchange rates decreased total operating expenses by approximately $4.3 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. Selling and marketing Selling and marketing expenses increased $73.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $62.2 million increase in advertising expenses primarily incurred for the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, BioShock Infinite in March 2013, Max Payne 3 in May 2012, Spec Ops: The Line in June 2012 and XCOM: Enemy Unknown in October 2012, as compared to advertising expenses incurred in the prior year for the releases of L.A. Noire in May 2011 and Duke Nukem Forever in June 2011. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased $26.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $15.0 million contractual provision that was triggered in June 2012 and an increase of $8.0 million for personnel costs primarily due to higher performance-based incentive compensation as a result of the Company's performance. General and administrative expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 include occupancy expense (primarily rent, utilities and office expenses) of $15.9 million and $15.7 million, respectively, related to our development studios. Research and development Research and development expenses increased $14.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $11.3 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily due to increased headcount and higher performance-based incentive compensation as a result of the Company's performance. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $1.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year primarily due to lower purchases of fixed assets during recent years. 40 Table of Contents Interest and other, net Interest income (expense), net (30,763 ) (2.5 )% $ (20,616 ) (2.5 )% $ (10,147 ) 49.2 % Gain on sale 0.0 % 2,200 0.3 % (2,200 ) (100.0 )% Foreign exchange loss (778 ) (0.1 )% (1,311 ) (0.2 )% 533 (40.7 )% Other 190 0.0 % 156 0.0 % 34 21.8 % Interest and other, net $ (31,351 ) (2.6 )% $ (19,571 ) (2.4 )% $ (11,780 ) 60.2 % Interest and other, net was an expense of $31.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to an expense of $19.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, primarily due to $9.4 million in higher interest expense associated with the November 2011 issuance of the 1.75% Convertible Notes and the $2.2 million gain we recorded on the sale of certain intellectual property assets during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Provision for income taxes Income tax expense was $5.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The increase in tax expense was primarily attributable to discrete tax benefits during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, partially offset by a reduction in uncertain tax positions during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to changes in valuation allowances and reductions in gross unrecognized tax benefits during the periods. Our valuation allowances decreased by $1.3 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to the application of prior years' net operating losses against domestic income earned during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, while our valuation allowance increased by $19.5 million during the same period in the prior year primarily due to a loss before income taxes without tax benefit in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2013, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, of $21.7 million, of which $14.3 million would affect our effective tax rate if realized. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, gross unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $0.7 million, which was comprised primarily of a decrease of $4.6 million related to the resolution of certain foreign tax audits for fiscal years through March 31, 2011, offset by an increase of $3.6 million related to federal domestic issues. We are generally no longer subject to audit for U.S. federal income tax returns for periods prior to our fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 and state income tax returns for periods prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2004. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. U.S. federal taxing authorities have completed their audit through the fiscal years ended October 31, 2009. Certain U.S. state taxing authorities are currently examining our income tax returns from fiscal years ended October 31, 2004 through October 31, 2009. The determination as to further adjustments to our gross unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months is not practicable. We are regularly audited by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Audits may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the payment of additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable tax assessments. Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, reflects the results of our former distribution business which was sold in February 2010. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $1.7 million as compared to a loss of $1.1 million for the prior year. The net income during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to the maturity of a 41 Table of Contents remaining contract and changes in estimates of sublease income as a result of the Company entering into a new sublease. The net loss during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was primarily due to changes in estimates of sublease income primarily as a result of deteriorating market conditions. Net loss and loss per share For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, our net loss was $29.5 million, as compared to a net loss of $108.8 million in the prior year. Net loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was $0.34, as compared to a net loss per share of $1.31 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding increased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the vesting of restricted stock awards over the last twelve months. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding net loss per share. Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Net revenue $ 825,823 100.0 % $ 1,136,876 100.0 % $ (311,053 ) (27.4 )% Product costs 255,236 30.9 % 326,936 28.7 % (71,700 ) (21.9 )% Software development costs and royalties (1) 164,487 19.9 % 172,397 15.2 % (7,910 ) (4.6 )% Internal royalties 34,156 4.1 % 115,032 10.1 % (80,876 ) (70.3 )% Licenses 74,976 9.1 % 75,016 6.6 % (40 ) (0.1 )% Cost of goods sold 528,855 64.0 % 689,381 60.6 % (160,526 ) (23.3 )% Gross profit $ 296,968 36.0 % $ 447,495 39.4 % $ (150,527 ) (33.6 )% (1) Includes $5,144 and $10,695 of stock-based compensation expense in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Net revenue decreased $311.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the prior year. This decrease is primarily due to $486.9 million in lower sales of the previous fiscal year's releases mainly Red Dead Redemption , which released in May 2010, Mafia II , which released in August 2010, Sid Meier's Civilization V, which released in September 2010, and Top Spin 4 , which released in March 2011, as well as approximately $46.8 million in lower sales of our Grand Theft Auto franchise. These decreases were partially offset by $283.9 million in increases from the current fiscal year's releases mainly L.A. Noire in May 2011, Duke Nukem Forever in June 2011 and The Darkness II in February 2012. Net revenue on consoles accounted for 85.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, which was in line with 85.7% for the prior year. PC and other sales increased to 10.6% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to 9.7% for the prior year, primarily due to the December 2011 release of Grand Theft Auto III: 10 Year Anniversary Edition for the iPad, iPhone and iPod touch, and select Android powered devices. Handheld sales accounted for 4.3% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, which is in line with 4.6% for the prior year. Net revenue from physical retail and other channels decreased to 87.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to 91.1% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue from digital online channels. Net revenue from digital online channels increased to 12.9% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to 8.9% for the prior year primarily due to releases of L.A. Noire in May 2011 and Duke Nukem Forever in June 2011, as well as higher sales of our Grand Theft Auto franchise. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue decreased for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the prior year. Product costs increased as a percentage of net revenue as a result of a greater share of net revenue being generated from a product mix with lower selling price points. Software 42 Table of Contents development costs and royalties increased as a percentage of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as we incurred higher royalty costs primarily associated with the May 2011 release of L.A. Noire , the June 2011 release of Duke Nukem Forever and the February 2012 release of The Darkness II , all of which were externally developed. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue is lower internal royalty expense, which was primarily due to higher income generated in the prior year from the release of Red Dead Redemption in May 2010. Net revenue earned outside of the United States accounted for 45.6% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, which was in line with 45.5% for the prior year. Foreign currency exchange rates increased net revenue and gross profit by approximately $20.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the prior year. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing $ 183,749 22.3 % $ 176,294 15.5 % $ 7,455 4.2 % General and administrative 121,200 14.7 % 109,484 9.6 % 11,716 10.7 % Research and development 64,162 7.8 % 69,576 6.1 % (5,414 ) (7.8 )% Depreciation and amortization 12,123 1.4 % 14,999 1.3 % (2,876 ) (19.2 )% Total operating expenses (1) $ 381,234 46.2 % $ 370,353 32.5 % $ 10,881 2.9 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense, as follows: Selling and marketing $5,042 $ 4,659 General and administrative $19,963 $ 9,781 Research and development $3,345 $3,630 Foreign currency exchange rates increased total operating expenses by approximately $7.7 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the prior year. Selling and marketing Selling and marketing expenses increased $7.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher advertising expenses related to L.A. Noire , Duke Nukem Forever and The Darkness II partially offset by lower advertising expenses incurred for the May 2010 release of Red Dead Redemption and the August 2010 release of Mafia II . General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased $11.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $12.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense for stock-based awards granted to ZelnickMedia, reflecting the grants of restricted stock pursuant to the New Management Agreement (as defined in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), $2.5 million of income resulting from a favorable legal settlement in the prior year and $2.4 million in additional rent expense primarily due to a net liability incurred for a lease assumption without economic benefit during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Partially offsetting the increase in general and administrative expenses is a decrease of $4.4 million for personnel costs and a decrease of $3.0 million for consulting expense, primarily due to lower performance-based incentive compensation as a result of the Company's performance. General and administrative expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 include occupancy expense (primarily rent, utilities and office expenses) of $15.7 million and $14.3 million, respectively, related to our development studios. 43 Table of Contents Research and development Research and development expenses decreased $5.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the prior year primarily due to a decrease of $6.7 million attributable to a decrease in production expenses and higher payroll capitalization rates at our development studios primarily due to a greater number of titles having reached technological feasibility partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in additional personnel-related costs. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $2.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the prior year primarily due to lower purchases of fixed assets during recent years. Interest and other, net Interest income (expense), net $ (20,616 ) (2.5 )% $ (15,248 ) (1.3 )% $ (5,368 ) 35.2 % Gain (loss) on sale 2,200 0.3 % (106 ) 0.0 % 2,306 (2175.5 )% Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) (1,311 ) (0.2 )% 1,414 0.1 % (2,725 ) (192.7 )% Other 156 0.0 % 421 0.0 % (265 ) (62.9 )% Interest and other, net $ (19,571 ) (2.4 )% $ (13,519 ) (1.2 )% $ (6,052 ) 44.8 % Interest and other, net was an expense of $19.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to an expense of $13.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, primarily due to $5.4 million in interest expense associated with the November 2011 issuance of the 1.75% Convertible Notes and we recorded a greater foreign currency exchange loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 partially offset by a $2.2 million gain on the sale of certain intellectual property assets. Provision for income taxes Income tax expense was $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to $9.8 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. The decrease in tax expense was primarily due to lower taxable earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions and adjustments for certain foreign tax filings. Our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to changes in valuation allowances and changes in gross unrecognized tax benefits during both the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. Our valuation allowances increased by $19.5 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to a loss before income taxes without tax benefit in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, while our valuation allowance decreased by $26.6 million during the same period in 2011 primarily due to the use of carried forward net operating losses applied to income earned during that period. As of March 31, 2012, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, of $22.4 million, of which $15.6 million would affect our effective tax rate if realized. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, gross unrecognized tax benefits increased by $7.3 million, which primarily related to an increase in uncertain tax positions in foreign jurisdictions. We are generally no longer subject to audit for U.S. federal income tax returns for periods prior to our fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 and state income tax returns for periods prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2004. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2005. U.S. federal taxing authorities have commenced their audit of fiscal years ending October 31, 2008 and 2009. Certain U.S. state taxing authorities are currently examining our income tax returns from fiscal years ended October 31, 2004 through October 31, 2006. In addition, tax authorities in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions are currently examining our income tax returns. The determination as to further adjustments to our gross unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months is not practicable. 44 Table of Contents We are regularly audited by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Audits may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the payment of additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable tax assessments. Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax, reflects the results of our former distribution business for which the net assets were sold in February 2010. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, the net loss was $1.1 million as compared to a net loss of $5.3 million for the prior year. The net loss during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 was primarily due to costs associated with a liability for a lease assumption without economic benefit less estimates of sublease income. The net loss during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was primarily due to changes in estimates of sublease income primarily as a result of deteriorating market conditions. Net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, our net loss was $108.8 million, as compared to net income of $48.5 million in the prior year. Net loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $1.31, as compared to earnings per share of $0.56 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Weighted average shares outstanding decreased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the exclusion of unvested share-based awards that are considered participating restricted stock due to the net loss generated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, offset, in part, by the vesting of restricted stock awards over the last twelve months. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding earnings (loss) per share. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary cash requirements have been to fund (i) the development, manufacturing and marketing of our published products, (ii) working capital, (iii) acquisitions and (iv) capital expenditures. We expect to rely on funds provided by our operating activities, our Credit Agreement and our Convertible Notes to satisfy our working capital needs. Credit Agreement In October 2011, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") which amended and restated our July 2007 Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings of up to $100.0 million, which may be increased by up to $40.0 million pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, and is secured by substantially all of our assets and the equity of our subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement expires on October 17, 2016. Revolving loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our election of (a) 1.50% to 2.00% above a certain base rate (4.75% at March 31, 2013), or (b) 2.50% to 3.00% above the LIBOR Rate (approximately 2.70% at March 31, 2013), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. We are also required to pay a monthly fee on the unused available balance, ranging from 0.375% to 0.50% based on availability. Availability under the Credit Agreement is restricted by our United States and United Kingdom based accounts receivable and inventory balances. The Credit Agreement also allows for the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2013, there was $73.6 million available to borrow under the Credit Agreement. At March 31, 2013, we had no outstanding borrowings related to the Credit Agreement and $1.7 million of letters of credit outstanding. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that substantially limit us and our subsidiaries' ability to: create, incur, assume or be liable for indebtedness; dispose of assets outside the ordinary course of business; 45 Table of Contents acquire, merge or consolidate with or into another person or entity; create, incur or allow any lien on any of their respective properties; make investments; or pay dividends or make distributions (each subject to certain limitations); or optionally prepay any indebtedness (subject to certain exceptions, including an exception permitting the redemption of the Company's Convertible Notes upon the meeting of certain minimum liquidity requirements). In addition, the Credit Agreement provides for certain events of default such as nonpayment of principal and interest, breaches of representations and warranties, noncompliance with covenants, acts of insolvency, default on indebtedness held by third-parties and default on certain material contracts (subject to certain limitations and cure periods). The Credit Agreement also contains a requirement that we maintain an interest coverage ratio of more than one to one for the trailing twelve month period, if certain average liquidity levels fall below $30.0 million. As of March 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the Credit Agreement. 4.375% Convertible Notes Due 2014 In June 2009, we issued $138.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Convertible Notes due 2014 (the "4.375% Convertible Notes"). Interest on the 4.375% Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 st and December 1 st of each year, and commenced on December 1, 2009. The 4.375% Convertible Notes mature on June 1, 2014, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased by the Company or converted. The 4.375% Convertible Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 93.6768 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 4.375% Convertible Notes (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $10.675 per share of common stock for a total of approximately 12,927,000 underlying conversion shares) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Holders may convert the 4.375% Convertible Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding December 1, 2013 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after July 31, 2009, if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 4.375% Convertible Notes for each day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day; (3) if we call the 4.375% Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the third scheduled trading day prior to the redemption date; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On and after December 1, 2013 until the close of business on the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their 4.375% Convertible Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 4.375% Convertible Notes may be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Our common stock price exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price of $10.675 per share for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended March 31, 2013. Accordingly, as of April 1, 2013, the 4.375% Convertible Notes may be converted at the holder's option through June 30, 2013. If the 4.375% Convertible Notes were to be converted during this period, our current intent and ability, given our option, would be to settle the conversion in shares of our common stock. As such, we have continued to classify these 4.375% Convertible Notes as long-term debt. At any time on or after June 5, 2012, the Company may redeem all of the outstanding 4.375% Convertible Notes for cash, but only if the last reported sale of our common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date we provide notice of redemption to holders of the 4.375% Convertible Notes exceeds 150% of the conversion price in effect on each such trading day. The redemption price will equal 100% of the principal amount of the 4.375% 46 Table of Contents Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any) to, but excluding, the redemption date. The indenture governing the 4.375% Convertible Notes contains customary terms and covenants and events of default. As of March 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the indenture governing the 4.375% Convertible Notes. 1.75% Convertible Notes Due 2016 On November 16, 2011, we issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Notes due 2016 (the "1.75% Convertible Notes" and together with the 4.375% Convertible Notes, the "Convertible Notes"). Interest on the 1.75% Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 st and December 1 st of each year, commencing on June 1, 2012. The 1.75% Convertible Notes mature on December 1, 2016, unless earlier repurchased by the Company or converted. The Company does not have the right to redeem the 1.75% Convertible Notes prior to maturity. The 1.75% Convertible Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 52.3745 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Notes (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $19.093 per share of common stock for a total of approximately 13,094,000 underlying conversion shares) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Holders may convert the 1.75% Convertible Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2016 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after March 31, 2012, if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Notes for each day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On and after June 1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their 1.75% Convertible Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 1.75% Convertible Notes may be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock. The indenture governing the 1.75% Convertible Notes contains customary terms and covenants and events of default. As of March 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the indenture governing the 1.75% Convertible Notes. Financial Condition We are subject to credit risks, particularly if any of our receivables represent a limited number of customers or are concentrated in foreign markets. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our liquidity and working capital position. Generally, we have been able to collect our accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment from customers. We have trade credit insurance on the majority of our customers to mitigate accounts receivable risk. A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to major retailers and distributors. Our five largest customers accounted for 52.5%, 43.9%, and 43.8% of net revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of March 31, 2013 and 2012, our five largest customers accounted for 57.2% and 61.3% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively. Customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance comprised 30.5% and 40.6% of 47 Table of Contents such balances at March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Based upon performing ongoing credit evaluations, maintaining trade credit insurance on a majority of our customers and our past collection experience, we believe that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not represent a significant credit risk, although we actively monitor each customer's credit worthiness and economic conditions that may affect our customers' business and access to capital. We are monitoring the current global economic conditions, including credit markets and other factors as it relates to our customers in order to manage the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents and projected cash flow from operations, along with availability under our Credit Agreement will provide us with sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and commitments through at least the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2013, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was approximately $124.4 million. These balances are dispersed across various locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the business and liquidity needs of our foreign affiliates. In addition, the Company expects in the foreseeable future to have the ability to generate sufficient cash domestically to support ongoing operations. Consequently, it is the Company's intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. In the event the Company needed to repatriate funds outside of the U.S., such repatriation may be subject to local laws and tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes or U.S. income taxes. It is not practicable to estimate the tax liability and the Company would try to minimize the tax effect to the extent possible. However, any repatriation may not result in actual cash payments as the taxable event would likely be offset by the utilization of the then available net operating losses and tax credits. In January 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 7,500,000 shares of our common stock. The authorization permits the Company to purchase shares from time to time through a variety of methods, including in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws. It does not obligate the Company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. Repurchases are subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, the trading price of the stock, the Company's financial performance and other conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. Through March 31, 2013, the Company has not repurchased any shares of our common stock as part of the program. Our changes in cash flows were as follows: Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (4,567 ) $ (84,964 ) $ 134,798 Net cash used in investing activities (16,820 ) (14,162 ) (7,578 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 243,364 734 Effects of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 3,610 (4,318 ) 6,567 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (17,777 ) $ 139,920 $ 134,521 At March 31, 2013 we had $402.5 million of cash and cash equivalents, compared to $420.3 million at March 31, 2012. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents from March 31, 2012 was primarily a result of our higher accounts receivable balance at March 31, 2013, primarily reflecting the release of BioShock Infinite near the end of the fiscal year, and the purchases of fixed assets, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and accruals primarily related to BioShock Infinite and royalties payable. 48 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have entered into various agreements in the ordinary course of business that require substantial cash commitments over the next several years. Generally, these include: Agreements to acquire licenses to intellectual property such as trademarks, copyrights and technology for use in the publishing, marketing and distribution of our software titles. In addition, we have certain minimum marketing support commitments where we commit to spend specified amounts related to marketing our products. Our licensing and marketing commitments primarily reflect agreements with major sports leagues and players' associations and expire at various times through September 2018; Contractual payments to third-party software developers that expire at various times through September 2015. Guaranteed minimum payments assume satisfactory performance; Operating leases, primarily related to occupancy, furniture and equipment, expiring at various times through March 2023. Included in the cash commitments for operating leases below is a liability for a lease assumption without economic benefit, which was approximately $1.8 million at March 31, 2013, and is recorded in liabilities of discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations; and Purchase obligations primarily related to agreements to purchase services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company that specifies all significant terms, including fixed, minimum or variable pricing provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions, expiring at various times through February 2016. A summary of annual minimum contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2013 is as follows (in thousands of dollars): 2014 $ 22,293 $ 42,688 $ 16,086 $ 6,720 $ 10,413 $ $ 98,200 2015 21,505 29,869 15,291 4,157 7,394 138,000 216,216 2016 19,910 3,100 12,814 1,749 4,375 41,948 2017 30,910 10,175 4,375 250,000 295,460 2018 14,550 7,757 22,307 Thereafter 11,838 25,128 36,966 Total $ 121,006 $ 75,657 $ 87,251 $ 12,626 $ 26,557 $ 388,000 $ 711,097 In addition to the cash commitments above, we have also entered into acquisition agreements that contain provisions for us to pay contingent cash consideration, typically contingent on the acquired company achieving certain financial, unit sales, or performance conditions. The amount and timing of these payments are currently not fixed or determinable. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of our potential acquisition commitments. Income Taxes. At March 31, 2013, the Company had recorded a liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits of $14.3 million for which we are unable to make a reasonable and reliable estimate of the period in which these liabilities will be settled with the respective tax authorities, therefore, these liabilities have not been included in the contractual obligations table. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2013 and 2012, we did not have any significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, 49 Table of Contents which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. International Operations Net revenue earned outside of the United States is principally generated by our operations in Europe, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 41.5%, 45.6% and 45.5%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the United States. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant effect on our operating results. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results and Seasonality We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result of the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles; sequels or enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; and order cancellations and delays in product shipment. Sales of our titles are also seasonal, with peak shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 50 Table of Contents