Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cybersecurity Incident for further discussion. Information technology system disruptions, network failures, or security breaches (including the Cybersecurity Incident and similar incidents) have negatively affected, and in the future could negatively affect our business continuity, operations, and financial results. These risks extend to the networks and e-commerce sites of console platform providers and other partners who sell or host our content online. The risk of such threats is heightened as a result of international conflicts such as the one between Russia and Ukraine and as a result of an extended period of remote work arrangements due to COVID-19. Along with our partners, we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, financial and operational resources to implement certain systems, processes, and technologies to guard against cyber risks and to help protect our data and systems. However, the techniques used to exploit, disable, damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, supporting technological infrastructure, intellectual property and other assets change frequently, continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and may not be detected for long periods of time. Our systems, processes and technologies, and the systems, processes and technologies of our business partners or our third-party service providers, have not been and in the future may not be adequate against all eventualities. In addition, the costs to respond to, mitigate, or notify affected parties of cyber-attacks and other security vulnerabilities are significant. Failures to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risks, or detect or respond adequately to a security breach or cyber risk, could result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interruptions to our products and services, our having to incur significant remediation and notification costs, a degradation of the user experience, causing consumers to lose confidence in our products and services, prompting regulatory inquiries and significant legal and financial costs. Additionally, applicable insurance policies may be insufficient to reimburse us for all such losses, and it is uncertain whether we will be able to maintain the current level of insurance coverage in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Successful exploitation of our systems can have other negative effects upon the products, services and user experience we offer. In particular, the virtual economies that we have established in many of our games are subject to abuse, exploitation and other forms of fraudulent activity that can negatively affect our business. Virtual economies involve the use of virtual currency or virtual assets that can be used or redeemed by a player within a particular game or service. Although we have implemented and continue to develop programs reasonably designed to prevent such negative impacts, the abuse or exploitation of our virtual economies can include the illegitimate generation and sale of accounts and/or virtual items in black markets. These kinds of activities and the steps that we take to address and prevent these issues may result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interfere with players enjoyment of a balanced game environment and cause reputational harm. Our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. We are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. We take measures to protect our consumer information from unauthorized access or disclosure. It is possible that our security controls over consumer information may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personal information. In addition, due to the high-profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. A security incident, such as the Cybersecurity Incident, that leads to disclosure of consumer information (including personal information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal information, any of which could result in increased costs or loss of revenue. A resulting perception that our products or services 14 do not adequately protect personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. In addition, if any of our business partners experience a security incident that leads to disclosure of consumer information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. In addition, certain of our products include online functionality. The ability of our products to enable this functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. These third-party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the related security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' information or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Further, the risk of such a breach may be heightened by world events, such as the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine. If an actual or perceived breach of our safeguards occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. We depend on our key management and product development personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with ZMC Advisors, L.P. ("ZMC"). Our Executive Chairman/Chief Executive Officer and President are partners of ZMC. We are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of our key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development, such as of our Grand Theft Auto and other hit titles. We may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. Our industry is generally characterized by a high level of employee mobility, competitive compensation programs, and aggressive recruiting among competitors for employees with technical, marketing, sales, engineering, product development, creative, and/or management skills. The loss of the services of our executive officers, ZMC, or certain key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. In addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. Failure to continue to attract and retain qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. Attracting, managing and retaining our talent is critical to our success. Our business depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate, and retain executive, technical, creative, marketing, and other personnel that are essential to the development, marketing, and support of our products and services. The market for highly-skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive, particularly in the geographic locations in which many of our key personnel are located. If we cannot successfully recruit, train, motivate, attract, and retain qualified employees, develop and maintain a healthy culture, or replace key employees following their departure, our reputation, brand, and culture may be negatively affected and our business will be impaired. Our global workforce is primarily non-unionized, but we are aware of an increase in the industry of workers exercising their right to form or join a union. If significant employee populations were to unionize, we could experience operational changes that may materially impact our business. Our results of operations or reputation may be harmed as a result of offensive or potentially dangerous consumer-created content. We are subject to risks associated with the collaborative online features in our games which allow consumers to post narrative comments, in real time, that are visible to other consumers. From time to time, objectionable and offensive or potentially dangerous consumer content may be posted to a gaming or other site with online chat features or game forums which allow consumers to post comments. We have been and may be subject to lawsuits, governmental inquiries and regulation or restrictions, and consumer backlash (including decreased sales and harmed reputation), as a result of consumers posting offensive content. We may also be subject to consumer backlash from comments made in response to postings we make on social media sites such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. If we fail to appropriately respond to the dissemination of such content, our players may not engage with our products and services and/or may lose confidence in our brands, and our financial results may be adversely affected. Our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. Our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles timely. We rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. Quality third-party developers are continually in high demand, 15 and those who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. Due to the limited availability of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. We have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. These agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties, and satisfy other conditions. Our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significant increases in our costs to bring particular products to market. Software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have continued to increase and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. Future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, disputes occasionally arise with external developers, including with respect to game content, launch timing, achievement of certain milestones, the game development timeline, marketing campaigns, contractual terms, and interpretation. If we have disputes with external developers or they cannot meet product development schedules, acquire certain approvals or are otherwise unable or unwilling to honor their obligations to us, we may delay or cancel previously announced games, alter our launch schedule or experience increased costs and expenses, which could result in a delay or significant shortfall in anticipated revenue, harm our profitability and reputation, and cause our financial results to be materially affected. The increasing importance of digital sales and free-to-play games to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. The proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, has increased significantly in recent years. The increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry, including through subscription-based access to a portfolio of interactive content, increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is delivered through retail distribution. This shift also requires us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which may not be successful. If either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. Also, while digitallydistributed products generally have higher profit margins than retail sales, as business shifts to digital distribution, the volume of orders from retailers for physical discs has been, and is expected to be, reduced. We are also increasingly dependent on our ability to develop, enhance, and monetize freetoplay games. As such, we are increasingly exposed to the risks of the freetoplay business model. For example, we may invest in the development of new freetoplay interactive entertainment products that do not achieve significant commercial success, in which case our revenues from those products likely will be lower than anticipated and we may not recover our development costs. Further, our business may be negatively impacted if: (i) we are unable to encourage new and existing consumers to purchase our virtual items, (ii) we fail to offer monetization features that appeal to these consumers, (iii) our platform providers make it more difficult or expensive for players to purchase our virtual items, (iv) we cannot encourage significant additional consumers to purchase virtual items in our game, or (v) our free-to-play releases reduce sales of our other games. Successfully monetizing free-to-play games is difficult and requires that we deliver valuable and entertaining player experiences that a sufficient number of players will pay for or that we are able to otherwise sufficiently monetize our games (for example, by serving in-game advertising). The success of our games depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control including consumer preferences, competing games, new mobile platforms and the availability of other entertainment experiences. If our games do not meet consumer expectations, or if they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our revenue and financial performance will be negatively affected. In addition to the market factors noted above, our ability to successfully develop games for mobile platforms and their ability to achieve commercial success will depend on our ability to: effectively market our games to existing and new players; achieve benefits from our player acquisition costs; achieve viral organic growth and gain customer interest in our games through free or more efficient channels; adapt to changing player preferences; adapt to new technologies and feature sets for mobile and other devices; 16 expand and enhance games after their initial release; attract, retain and motivate talented and experienced game designers, product managers and engineers; partner with mobile platforms and obtain featuring opportunities; continue to adapt game feature sets for an increasingly diverse set of mobile devices, including various operating systems and specifications, limited bandwidth and varying processing power and screen sizes; minimize launch delays and cost overruns on the development of new games and features; achieve and maintain successful customer engagement and effectively monetize our games; maintain a quality social game experience and retain our players; develop games that can build upon or become franchise games; compete successfully against a large and growing number of existing market participants; accurately forecast the timing and expense of our operations, including game and feature development, marketing and customer acquisition, customer adoption and success of bookings growth; minimize and quickly resolve bugs or outages; and acquire and successfully integrate high quality mobile game assets, personnel or companies. These and other uncertainties make it difficult to know whether we will succeed in continuing to develop successful live service games and launch new games and features in accordance with our operating plan. If we do not succeed in doing so, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation will suffer. We derive revenues from advertisements and offers that are incorporated into our free-to-play games through relationships with third parties. If we are unable to continue to compete for these advertisements and offers, or if any events occur that negatively impact our relationships with advertisers, our advertising revenues and operating results would be negatively impacted. We derive revenue from advertisements and offers we serve to players. We need to maintain good relationships with advertisers to provide us with a sufficient inventory of advertisements and offers. Online advertising, including through mobile games and other mobile applications, is an intensely competitive industry. Many large companies, such as Amazon, Facebook and Google, invest significantly in data analytics to make their websites and platforms more attractive to advertisers. In order for our advertising business to continue to succeed, we need to continue to demonstrate the reach of our player network and success of our advertising partners. If our relationship with any advertising partners terminates for any reason, or if the commercial terms of our relationships are changed or do not continue to be renewed on favorable terms, we would need to qualify new advertising partners, which could negatively impact our revenues, at least in the short term. In addition, internet-connected devices and operating systems controlled by third parties increasingly contain features that allow device users to disable functionality that allows for the delivery of targeted advertising on their devices. Device and browser manufacturers may include or expand these features as part of their standard device specifications. For example, when Apple announced that UDID, a standard device identifier used in some applications, was being superseded and would no longer be supported, application developers were required to update their apps to utilize alternative device identifiers such as universally unique identifier, or, more recently, identifier-for-advertisers, which simplifies the process for Apple users to opt out of certain types of advertising. In June 2020, Apple announced further changes, requiring its users with iOS 14 (and presumably future iOS versions) to request a users permission to track them or to access their mobile devices identifier for advertising. Those changes, known as Apples AppTracking Transparency framework, went into effect in late April 2021, with the release of iOS 14.5. If users do not elect participate in functionality that supports the delivery of targeted advertising on their devices, our ability to deliver effective advertising campaigns on behalf of our advertisers could suffer, which could cause our business, financial condition, or results of operations to suffer. Finally, the revenues that we derive from advertisements and offers is subject both to seasonality, as companies advertising budgets are generally highest during the fourth calendar quarter and decline significantly in the first calendar quarter of the following year, which negatively impacts our revenues in such first calendar quarter, and to the financial health of advertisers, who, as they experience downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations for various reasons, such as the economic effects resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic or other world events, may decrease their advertising spending. 17 If we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties, or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic, such as our acquisition of Zynga. We may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; the potential for the acquired business to underperform relative to our expectations and the acquisition price; unexpected tax consequences from the acquisition, or the tax treatment of the acquired business's operations going forward, giving rise to incremental tax liabilities that are difficult to predict; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that significant acquisitions, when not managed cautiously, may result in the over-extension of our existing operating infrastructures, internal controls and information technology systems; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the U.S., we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger, U.S.-based public company at companies that prior to acquisition may not have as robust controls, procedures and policies, particularly, with respect to the effectiveness of cyber and information security practices and incident response plans, compliance with data privacy and protection and other laws and regulations protecting the rights of players and customers, and compliance with U.S.-based economic policies and sanctions which may not have previously been applicable to the acquired companys operations. Further, any such transaction may involve the risk that our senior managements attention will be excessively diverted from our other operations, the risk that our industry does not evolve as anticipated, and that any intellectual property or personnel skills acquired do not prove to be those needed for our future success, and the risk that our strategic objectives, cost savings or other anticipated benefits are otherwise not achieved. Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in 18 our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. We face risks from our international operations. We are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in Asia, Latin America, and other parts of the world. Changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. In either the U.S. or other countries, trade legislation, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws, a change in the relationship between either us or the U.S. and any country in which we have significant operations or sales, or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. Additionally, cultural differences may affect consumer preferences and as a result, some of our "hit" products may not sell as well as they do in the U.S. Cultural differences may also require us to modify the content of our products or the method by which we charge our customers. If we do not correctly assess consumer preferences in the countries in which we sell our products, or respond to other risks related to our international operations, it could negatively affect our business. Our business may also be affected directly or indirectly by major world events, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Such events could decrease the demand for our products and services, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to certain of our customers, or result in restrictions in trade, all of which could negatively affect our business. Further, the enforcement of regulations relating to mobile and other games with an online element in China remains uncertain, and further changes, either in the regulation or their enforcement could have a negative impact on our business in China. In order to operate in China, all games must have regulatory approval. A decision by the Chinese government to revoke its approval for any of our games or to decline to approve any products we desire to sell in China in the future could have a negative impact on our business. China has also enacted a new privacy law that may affect how we structure our business and process of personal information. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that affect our business, including state and federal laws regarding consumer protection, electronic marketing, protection of minors, data protection and privacy, competition, taxation, intellectual property, export, and national security, which are continuously evolving and developing. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly laws outside the U.S. There is a risk that existing or future laws may be interpreted in a manner that is not consistent with our current practices and could have an adverse effect on our business. We incur legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the U.S. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are potentially subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect the offering of certain types of content, such as that which depicts violence, many of which are ambiguous, still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business or expose us to liability. In addition, there are ongoing academic, political and regulatory discussions in the U.S., Europe, Australia, Brazil and other jurisdictions regarding whether certain game genres, such as social casino, or certain game mechanics, such as loot boxes, should be subject to a higher level or different type of regulation than other game genres or mechanics to protect consumers, in particular minors and persons susceptible to addiction, and, if so, what such regulation should include. In 2020, the U.K. left the European Union ("E.U.") ("Brexit"). Subsequently, the U.K. and the E.U. struck a bilateral trade and cooperation deal governing the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. (the "Trade and Cooperation Agreement"), which took effect on May 1, 2021. There remains unavoidable uncertainties and risks to our business related to Brexit and the new relationship between the U.K. and E.U., which will continue to be developed and defined. We are seeking to mitigate those risks with operational and commercial changes to the extent possible and warranted. However, the legal and regulatory landscape remains uncertain, and we have no assurance that such actions will enable us to avoid a material adverse impact on our business from Brexit. Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace and replicate. 19 The effects of the U.K.'s future trade agreements with the E.U. or other nations could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, distributors, and employees. The Trade and Cooperation Agreement sets out preferential arrangements in areas such as the trade in goods and services but does not reach the level of integration that existed while the U.K. was an E.U. member state, which could have a detrimental impact on our U.K. growth. Such a decline could also make our doing business in Europe more difficult, which could negatively affect sales to consumers of our products. Without access to the single E.U. market, it may be more challenging and costly to distribute our products in Europe. The laws of some countries either do not protect our products, brands, and intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or are inconsistently enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in countries with weaker intellectual property enforcement mechanisms. In addition, certain third parties have registered our intellectual property rights without authorization in foreign countries. Successfully registering such intellectual property rights could limit or restrict our ability to offer products and services based on such rights in those countries. Although we take steps to enforce and police our rights, our practices and methodologies may not be effective against all eventualities. We depend on servers and Internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. If we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient Internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. Connectivity issues could affect our profitability and our ability to sell and provide online services for our products. We rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as Microsoft's Xbox Live, PlayStation Network, Steam, Epic, and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. Connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. Given the increasing global usage of online platforms, in part as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the risks of connectivity issues may be heightened. In addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. Such issues also could affect our ability to provide game-related services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. An extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We expect a significant portion of our games to be online enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. If we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires, if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, or if Internet bandwidth becomes limited, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. Insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. Conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. Because of the importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate Internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. If the price of such resources increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We use open-source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business. We use open-source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. Some open-source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. If it were determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our business. Additionally, the shared nature of open-source software may increase the ability of cyber-attackers to discover and exploit vulnerabilities, which may increase the likelihood of a data breach, ransomware, network interruption, or other type of cyber-attack against us or against third parties who may use open source software, such as our platform partners or key vendors, any of which could negatively impact our business. 20 Our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. The technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. As software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. We may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. If, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we may have to consider suspending distribution of defective products or offering refunds, and we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. In such an event, the technological reliability and stability of our products and services could be below our standards and the standards of our players and our reputation, brand and sales could be adversely affected. In addition, we could be required to, or may find it necessary to, offer a refund for the product or service, suspend the availability or sale of the product or service or expend significant resources to cure the defect, bug or error each of which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. Certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, certain of our 2K products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. Similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular products and entertainment brands. Competition for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain and renew these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. If such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. We may experience declines or fluctuations in the recurring portion of our business. Our business model includes revenue that we expect to be recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles and associated services, and ongoing mobile businesses. While we have been able to forecast the revenue from these areas of our business with greater certainty than for new offerings, we cannot provide assurances that consumers will purchase these games and services on a consistent basis. Furthermore, we may cease to offer games and services that we previously had deemed to be recurring in nature. Consumer purchases of our games and services may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our games and services, our ability to improve and innovate our annualized titles, our ability to adapt our games and services to new platforms, outages and disruptions of online services, the games and services offered by our competitors, our marketing and advertising efforts or declines in consumer activity generally as a result of economic downturns, among others. Any decline or fluctuation in this portion of our business may have a negative impact on our financial and operating results. Our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. In recent years, we have continued to invest in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms. We have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download, including virtual currency, through our existing franchises such as Grand Theft Auto and NBA 2K, as well as through our mobile product offerings. We are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. There are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. While we anticipate growth in this area of our business, consumer demand is difficult to predict as a result of a number of factors, including satisfaction with our products and services, our ability to provide engaging products and services, third parties offering their products and services within our subscription, partners that provide, or dont provide, access to our subscription, products and services offered by our competitors, reliability of our infrastructure and the infrastructure of our partners, pricing, the actual or perceived security of our and our partners information technology systems and reductions in consumer spending levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing any of these new products or services. For example, we may offer games that do not attract sufficient purchases of virtual currency, which may cause our investments into this product space, such as through our acquisitions of Zynga, Social Point, Playdots, Nordeus, and Popcore, to fail to realize the expected benefits. External factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also have an impact on the successful implementation of any new products or services. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 Our quarterly and annual operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and therefore dependent on the timing of our product releases, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. In addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. Demand for and sales of titles in our NBA 2K series are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the NBA season. If a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or interrupted, as has happened as a result of COVID-19, our sales might also suffer disproportionately. Our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. We also expect that a relatively limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our revenues and profits. Due to this dependence on a limited number of franchises, the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on these franchises could negatively impact our business. Additionally, if the popularity of a franchise declines, as has happened in the past with other popular franchises, we may have to write off the unrecovered portion of the underlying intellectual property assets, which could negatively impact our business. We are dependent on the future success of our Grand Theft Auto products, and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. Grand Theft Auto and certain of our other titles, such as Red Dead Redemption or NBA 2K, are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Grand Theft Auto products contributed 14.6% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, and the five best-selling franchises (including Grand Theft Auto), which may change year over year, in the aggregate accounted for 52.9% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. If we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially, and we may incur losses. In addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of "hit" titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. "Hit" products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. In addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. Widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in and/or new business or payment models in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional PC products. Price protection granted to our customers and returns of our published titles by our customers, or sales of used video games, may adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of price protection and product returns with respect to our customers. Our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. However, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. We grant price protection and accept returns in connection with our publishing arrangements, and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated price protection and reserves for returns. While we believe that we can reliably estimate price protection and returns, if price protection and return rates for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. If our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. A substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 accounted for 79.6% of our net revenue, with Sony, Google, Apple, and Microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0%. Our sales are made primarily without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Certain of our customers may decline to 22 carry products containing mature content. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "AO" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, if our customers are subject to pricing pressures due to deteriorating demand for our products, competition, or otherwise, such customers may pass those pricing pressures through to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because some of our customers are also publishers of games for their own hardware platforms and may manufacture products for other licensees, such customers may give priority to their own products or those of our competitors. Accordingly, console manufacturers like Sony or Microsoft could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products, as well as increases to projected development, manufacturing, marketing, or distribution costs, any of which could negatively impact our business. Furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent, or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global credit contractions, or other factors, for example, as a result of COVID-19. Bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among large retailers. In addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress or lack of credit insurance, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. Content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. Retailers, including digital storefronts and platform partners, may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence, sexually explicit material, or other content that they deem inappropriate. If retailers decline to sell our products based on their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence, sexually explicit material, or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "M" rated series products are rated "AO," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling Grand Theft Auto titles could seriously affect our business. Consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence, sexual material, or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. Additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. An increase in the number of lawsuits filed by the families of victims of violence may trigger supplemental governmental scrutiny, damage our reputation, and negatively affect the sale of our products. Further, in 2019, the World Health Organization included "gaming disorder" in the 11th revision of the International Classification of Diseases, leading some to consider legislation and policies aimed at addressing this issue. In addition, public dialogue concerning interactive entertainment may have an adverse impact on our reputation and our customers' willingness to purchase our products. We submit our products for rating by the Entertainment Software Rating Board ("ESRB") in the United States and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. Failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. We voluntarily submit our game products to the ESRB, a U.S.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. The ESRB system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. The ESRB may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. Other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. In some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. In addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries. In the U.S., if the ESRB rates a game as "AO" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. In addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. Many of our Rockstar titles and certain of our 2K titles have been rated "M" (age 17 and older) by the ESRB. If we are unable to obtain "M" ratings and instead receive "AO" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the ESRB's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. If any of our games are re-rated by the ESRB or other foreign-based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. 23 We have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the ESRB and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. Nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we publish were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the ESRB could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. This could have a material negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines, and penalties, and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of our other video games. If any of these were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Certain other countries have also established content rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. In addition, certain stores use other ratings systems, such as Apples use of its proprietary App Rating System and Google Plays use of the International Age Rating Coalition (IARC) rating system. If we are unable to obtain the ratings we have targeted for our products, it could have a negative impact on our business. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to meet the requirements of the rating systems, which could delay or disrupt the release of any given product or may prevent its sale altogether in certain territories. Further, if one of our games is rerated for any reason, a ratings organization could require corrective actions, which could include a recall, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold or returned copies or consumers could demand a refund for copies previously purchased. Additionally, retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses, whether because a product received a certain rating by the ESRB or other content rating system, or otherwise. If retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material, or other generally objectionable content, we might be required to modify particular titles or forfeit the revenue opportunity of selling such titles with that retailer. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected, and our competitive position could be harmed. We develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Nonetheless, our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying, and third parties may potentially exploit or misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary information, causing significant reputational damage. Unauthorized third parties, for example, may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. Well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the Internet. Although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. In addition, "cheating" programs or other unauthorized software tools and modifications that enable consumers to cheat in games harm the experience of players who play fairly and could negatively impact the volume of microtransactions or purchases of downloadable content which may disrupt the virtual economies of our games and reduce the demand for virtual items, disrupting our in-game economy. In addition, unrelated third parties have attempted to scam our players with fake offers for virtual items or other game benefits. We devote significant resources to discovering, discouraging, and disabling these cheating and scam programs and activities, including by "taking down" offending content and by initiating litigation where appropriate. Despite our efforts, if we are unable to do so quickly, our operations may be disrupted, our reputation may be damaged, players may stop playing our games and our ability to reliably validate our audience metrics may be negatively affected. These cheating programs and scam offers result in lost revenue from paying players, disrupt our in-game economies, divert time from our personnel, increase costs of developing technological measures to combat these programs and activities, increase our customer service costs needed to respond to dissatisfied players, and may lead to legal claims. Also, vulnerabilities in the design of our applications and of the platforms upon which they run could be discovered after their release. This may lead to lost revenues from paying consumers or increased cost of developing technological measures to respond to these, either of which could negatively affect our business. We have a significant amount of outstanding indebtedness, and may incur other indebtedness in the future, all of which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. As of March 31, 2023, we had $2.700 aggregate principal amount of outstanding senior notes (the "Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2023"), a $350.0 Term Loan, and a $500.0 revolving credit facility under the 2022 Credit Agreement with no outstanding borrowings. (Refer to Note 11 Debt to our Consolidated Financial Statements, herein.) In April 2023, we completed our offering and sale of $1,000.0 aggregate principal amount of additional senior notes (the Senior Notes issued in 24 fiscal 2024 and together with the Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2023 the Senior Notes). We utilized a portion of the proceeds from the Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2024 to fully repay the $350.0 Term Loan. In addition, we commenced a tender offer to repurchase up to $500.0 aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 3.300% Senior Notes due March 2024. (Refer to Note 21 Subsequent Events to our Consolidated Financial Statements, herein.) As our outstanding Senior Notes mature, we will have to expend significant resources to either repay or refinance such notes. If we decide to refinance our Senior Notes, we may be required to do so on different or less favorable terms or we may be unable to refinance such notes at all, either of which may adversely affect our financial condition. Our current or future levels of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; requiring the dedication of a greater than expected portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. We are required to comply with the covenants set forth in the indenture governing our Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, and the 2022 Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the holders of the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or the lenders under the 2022 Credit Agreement, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. Further, these covenants may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interest of us and our stockholders. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and could affect the terms of any such financing. The value of our virtual items is highly dependent on how we manage the economies in our games. If we fail to manage our game economies properly, our business may suffer. Paying players make purchases in our games because of the perceived value of these virtual items, which is dependent on the relative ease of obtaining an equivalent good by playing our game. The perceived value of these virtual items can be impacted by various actions that we take in the games including offering discounts for virtual items, giving away virtual items in promotions or providing easier non-paid means to secure these goods. Managing game economies is difficult and relies on our assumptions and judgement. If we fail to manage our virtual economies properly or fail to promptly and successfully respond to any such disruption, our reputation may suffer and our players may be less likely to play our games and to purchase virtual items from us in the future, which would cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Some of our players may make sales or purchases of virtual items used in our games through unauthorized or fraudulent third-party websites, which may reduce our revenue. Virtual items in our games have no monetary value outside of our games. Nonetheless, some of our players may make sales and/or purchases of their accounts or of our virtual items, such as virtual coins for our Social Slots games or Zynga Poker virtual poker chips, through unauthorized third-party sellers in exchange for real currency. These unauthorized or fraudulent transactions are usually arranged on third-party websites and the virtual items offered may have been obtained through unauthorized means such as exploiting vulnerabilities in our games, from scamming our players with fake offers for virtual items or other game benefits, or from credit card fraud. We do not generate any revenue from these transactions. These unauthorized purchases and sales from third-party sellers have in the past and could in the future impede our revenue and profit growth by, among other things: decreasing revenue from authorized transactions; creating downward pressure on the prices we charge players for our virtual items; increasing chargebacks from unauthorized credit card transactions; causing us to lose revenue from dissatisfied players who stop playing a particular game; causing us to lose revenue from players who we take disciplinary action against, including banning certain players who may have previously made purchases within our games; 25 increasing costs we incur to develop technological measures to curtail unauthorized transactions; resulting in negative publicity or harm our reputation with players and partners; and increasing customer support costs to respond to dissatisfied players. To discourage unauthorized purchases and sales of our virtual items, we state in our terms of service that the buying or selling of virtual items from unauthorized third-party sellers may result in bans from our games or legal action. We periodically encounter such issues and expect to continue to do so. We have banned players as a result of such activities. We have also filed lawsuits against third parties attempting to sell virtual items from our games outside of our games. We have also employed technological measures to help detect unauthorized transactions and continue to develop additional methods and processes by which we can identify unauthorized transactions and block such transactions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts to detect, prevent or minimize these unauthorized or fraudulent transactions will be successful and that these actions will not increase over time. Risks related to legal or regulatory compliance Companies and governmental agencies may restrict access to platforms, our website, mobile applications or the Internet generally, which could have a negative impact on our business. We rely on our consumers' access to significant levels of Internet bandwidth for the sale and digital delivery of our content and the functionality of our games with online features. Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity, or use of the Internet, including laws affecting "net neutrality" or measures enacted in certain jurisdictions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase our cost of doing business. Although certain jurisdictions have implemented laws and regulations intended to prevent Internet service providers from discriminating against particular types of legal traffic on their networks, other jurisdictions may lack such laws and regulations or repeal existing laws or regulations. For example, on December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal net neutrality regulations in the U.S., and, following that decision, several states enacted net neutrality regulations. Given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments, or repeal, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local Internet service providers and the relatively significant level of Internet bandwidth access our products and services require, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expenses, or otherwise negatively affect our business. Additionally, our players generally need to access the Internet and in particular platforms such as the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store, Facebook, Snapchat or our website to play our mobile games. Companies and governmental agencies could block access to any platform, our website or mobile applications for a number of reasons such as security or confidentiality concerns or regulatory reasons, or they may adopt policies that prohibit employees from accessing Apple, Google, Facebook and our website or any social platform. If companies or governmental entities block or limit such or otherwise adopt policies restricting players from playing our games, our business could be negatively impacted and could lead to the loss or slower growth of our player base. Our business and products are subject to a variety of existing U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, many of which are unsettled and still developing, as well as potential new legislation, all of which could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. Such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. If any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the U.S., and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Other countries have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current U.S. laws. In the U.S., proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to audiences under the ages of 17 or 18, such as the State of California's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. While such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. In addition, there are ongoing academic, political and regulatory discussions in the U.S., Europe, Australia, Brazil and other jurisdictions regarding whether certain game genres, such as social casino, or certain game mechanics, such as loot boxes, should be subject to a higher level or different type of regulation than other game genres or mechanics to protect consumers, in particular minors and persons susceptible to addiction, and, if so, what such regulation should include. For example, in 2018 a court determined that a class-action plaintiff was able to state a claim that an online social casino game operated by Big Fish Games, Inc. violated a specific anti-gambling law in Washington State. Subsequent to this ruling, 26 additional purported class-action suits were filed against other social casino gaming companies for alleged violations of Washington States gambling and consumer protection laws, and some of the defendant companies, including Zynga, have entered into settlement agreements to settle their respective lawsuits. In Australia, the Federal Government has proposed rules requiring, among other things, an 18+ age rating for any games containing simulated gambling. If new social casino regulations are imposed, or other regulations are interpreted to apply to our social casino games, certain, or all, of our casino-themed games may become subject to such rules and regulations and expose us to civil and criminal penalties if we do not comply. Additionally, loot box game mechanics have been the subject of increased public discussion - for example, Belgium and the Netherlands have recommended and brought enforcement actions against certain companies, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) held a public workshop on loot boxes in August 2019, at least one bill has been introduced in the U.S. Senate that would regulate loot boxes in games marketed toward players under the age of 18, and the United Kingdoms Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport in September 2020 launched a call for evidence into the impact of loot boxes on in-game spending and gambling-like behavior, which ended in July 2022 with the U.K. government calling for companies within the industry to engage in self-regulation, including taking actions to protect children and their ability to access and purchase loot boxes. In addition, in Australia, there is a proposed classification bill focused on banning loot boxes for minors and preventing access to loot boxes by minors through classification guidelines, and politicians have cited loot boxes as an example of recent technology innovation where government regulation is needed. In some of our games, such as CSR Racing 2, Empires & Puzzles, FarmVille 3, Golf Rival, Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells, Merge Dragons!, Merge Magic!, NBA 2K, WWE 2K, and Zynga Poker, certain mechanics may be deemed as loot boxes. New regulation by the FTC, U.S. states or other international jurisdictions, which may vary significantly across jurisdictions and which we may be required to comply with, could require that these game mechanics be modified or removed from games, increase the costs of operating our games, impact player engagement and monetization or otherwise harm our business performance. It is difficult to predict how existing or new laws may be applied to these or similar game mechanics. If we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to modify our games, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain of our business models and features within our games and services are subject to new laws or regulations or evolving interpretations and application of existing laws and regulations, including those related to gambling. The growth and development of electronic commerce, virtual items and virtual currency has prompted calls for new laws and regulations and resulted in the application of existing laws or regulations that have limited or restricted the sale of our products and services in certain territories. In addition, certain foreign countries allow government censorship of interactive entertainment software products or require pre-approval processes of uncertain length before our games and services can be offered. Adoption of ratings systems, censorship, restrictions on distribution and changes to approval processes or the status of any approvals could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our consumers. In addition, compliance with new and possibly inconsistent regulations for different territories could be costly, delay, or prevent the release of our products in those territories. The laws and regulations concerning data privacy and certain other aspects of our business are continually evolving. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to certain privacy and data protection laws, including those in the U.S. Certain activities related to processing the personal data of individuals in the U.K. and E.U. are conducted by our U.K.-based data controller or our local entities in the E.U. The U.S. Children's Online Privacy Protection Act also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. Failure to comply with privacy and data protection laws or age restrictions may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines, or result in lawsuits and claims against us to the extent these laws include a private right of action. Privacy and data protection laws and industry terms are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which may be difficult to comply with and which could have a negative impact on or materially change our approach to the sale and marketing of our products. For example, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 ("DPA 2018") both became effective in May 2018. GDPR and DPA 2018 apply to us because we receive and process the personal information of individuals in the E.U. and the U.K., and we maintain certain local entities in the E.U. and the U.K. responsible for processing personal information. GDPR and DPA 2018 contain significant penalties for non-compliance, which have been imposed by regulators. Countries in the E.U. are still enacting national laws that correspond to certain portions of the GDPR. The U.K. also implemented an Age Appropriate Design Code that applies to how personal data is used for individuals up to age 18. In the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA") became effective on January 1, 2020 and applies to processing of personal information of California residents. California also enacted the California 27 Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), which updates the CCPA. Several other U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws, including Colorado, Connecticut, Indiana, Iowa, Utah, and Virginia. Other states are considering similar privacy or data protection laws that may apply to us. The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, also continue to review the need for greater or different regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the Internet and on mobile devices, and the U.S. Congress is considering a number of legislative proposals to regulate in this area. Various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. Further, and most notably in the mobile ecosystem, companies that provide the platforms on which our games are played are changing the terms on how publishers can collect and use personal data obtained from users on those platforms. Player use of our games is subject to our privacy policy, end user license agreements ("EULA"), and terms of service ("TOS"). If we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy, EULA, or TOS, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, affect our financial condition, and harm our business. If regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial condition, and damage our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the U.S. and elsewhere that could restrict the interactive entertainment industry, including player privacy, advertising, taxation, content suitability, and moderation, online safety, copyright, distribution, and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through digital sales. Any such changes would require us to devote legal and other resources to address such regulation. For example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency, banking institutions, and unclaimed property may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or virtual goods. If that were to occur, we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the U.S. or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of the interactive entertainment industry and impair our business, financial condition, and operating results. Similarly, new regulatory developments internationally aimed at better protecting consumers online from illegal or harmful content and interactions may introduce additional compliance and reporting obligations for our business which may increase operating costs. If we were to fail to comply with such new regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or regulators, which could result in substantial fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, affect our financial condition, and harm our business. Although we have structured and operate our skill tournaments and game mechanics, including random digital item mechanics, with applicable laws in mind, including any applicable laws relating to gambling, and believe that playing these games does not constitute gambling, our skill tournaments or game mechanics could become subject to gambling-related rules and regulations, or be deemed violative of current rules and regulations, and expose us to civil and criminal penalties. We also sometimes offer consumers of our online and casual games various types of contests and promotional opportunities. We are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. Further, random digital item mechanics may become subject to further regulations in various jurisdictions. If this were to occur, we might be required to alter some of our games to address these additional requirements or seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements, and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, such as reporting to regulators, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. Moreover, the inclusion of random digital item mechanics has attracted the attention of the interactive gaming community, and if the future implementation of these features creates a negative perception of gameplay fairness or other negative perceptions, our reputation and brand could be harmed and revenue could be negatively impacted. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the U.S., the E.U., or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of online or casual game services and impair our business. Also, existing laws or new laws regarding the marketing of in-game or in-app purchases, regulation of currency, banking institutions, unclaimed property, or money laundering may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or goods. If we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. As our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright, or trademarks. In addition, we 28 believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. In addition, many patents have been issued that may apply to potential new modes of delivering, playing or monetizing products and services such as those that we produce or would like to offer in the future. We may discover that future opportunities to provide new and innovative modes of game play and game delivery may be precluded by existing patents that we are unable to acquire or license on reasonable terms. Risks related to financial and economic condition Delaware law, our charter documents, and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We are a multinational corporation with operations in the U.S. and various other jurisdictions around the world. Accordingly, we are subject to tax in the U.S. and in various other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are required to estimate future taxes. Although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. Further, our effective tax rate or tax payable could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, the mix and level of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. Additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net (loss) income or loss could be materially affected. We have recorded a valuation allowance against a portion of our deferred tax assets due to uncertainty with respect to their realization. We expect to provide a valuation allowance until other significant positive evidence arises that suggests that the benefits associated with the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized. Such evidence relies on forecasted data, which, as discussed in these "Risk Factors," is subject to change based on a number of factors, some of which we do not control. Therefore, while the valuation allowance recorded represents our best estimation of the realizability of the tax benefits, such realizability could continue to change before we are able to benefit from it or may ultimately fall short or exceed our expectations, any of which could impact our results. Beginning in 2022, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) eliminates the ability to deduct research and development expenditures currently and requires taxpayers to capitalize and amortize them pursuant to IRC Section 174. Although Congress is considering legislation that would defer the capitalization and amortization requirement to later years, we have no assurance that the requirement will be deferred, repealed or otherwise modified. The requirement was effective for us beginning April 1, 2022. It is possible that this change could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, and financial condition in future periods. In addition, the U.S. enacted the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARPA) which provided numerous tax and other stimulus measures. One such measure will expand the limitation of compensation deductions for certain covered employees of publicly held corporations to also include our next five highly compensated employees. This will be effective for us beginning April 1, 2027. In 2022, the U.S. enacted The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Inflation Reduction Act) which includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of 29 corporations with an average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a consecutive three-year period. The CAMT is effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024. It is possible that the CAMT could result in an additional tax liability over the regular federal corporate tax liability in a particular year based on differences between book and taxable income. It is possible that these changes could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, and financial condition in future periods. Additionally, a number of countries are actively pursuing fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to multinational companies like us and agreed to implement a global minimum tax regime, referred to as Pillar 2, intended to conform to new and evolving OECD guidelines. Countries may enact Pillar 2 slightly differently than the OECD model rules and on different timelines. We will continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments to assess potential impact. In addition, an increasing number of countries have enacted, or are considering enacting, revenue-based taxes on digital services. These digital services taxes target various business activities, including online advertising and, in some cases, video game sales. While the scope and applicability of these taxes often remains unclear, digital services taxes that ultimately apply to us could have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. Sales in international markets, primarily in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, 37.2% of our net revenue was earned outside the U.S. We are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in Asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in China and South Korea. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs, and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, such as those relating to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. Many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. Our financial results are reported under the accounting policies promulgated by the SEC and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. For example, standards regarding revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. We expect that an increasing number of our games will be supported with material post-release activities, such as content updates and online-enabled features, and we could therefore be required to recognize more of the related revenues for those games over a period of time rather than at the time of sale. Further, as we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online services, user playing patterns can affect our estimate of the service period, and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time than we initially allocated. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. Declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. We believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. This makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. Adverse economic conditions, such as a prolonged U.S. or international general economic downturn, such as those caused by COVID-19, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices, or declining consumer confidence, could also reduce consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. As a result of COVID-19, our counterparty credit risk may be particularly exacerbated, as certain of our counterparties may face financial difficulties in paying owed amounts on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse 30 effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We are particularly susceptible to market conditions and risks associated with the entertainment industry, which, in addition to general macroeconomic downturns, also include the popularity, price, and timing of our products; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment and leisure; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. General Risk Factors Additional issuances or sales of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue equity or equity-based securities in the future to facilitate acquisitions or strategic transactions, as we did in connection with our acquisition of Zynga, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We are subject to risks related to corporate and social responsibility and reputation. Many factors influence our reputation including the perception held by our customers, business partners and other key stakeholders. Our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities. We risk damage to our reputation if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, workplace conduct, human rights and philanthropy. Any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Negative reactions to our products and services may not be foreseeable. We also may not effectively manage or respond to these negative perceptions for reasons within or outside of our control. We expect to continue to expend resources to address concerns with our products and services. Negative perceptions could arise despite our efforts, though, and may result in loss of engagement with our products and services, increased scrutiny from government bodies and consumer groups, and/or litigation, any of which could negatively impact our business. Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business. Climate change could result in an increase in the frequency or severity of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, or significant power outages and other catastrophic events. Such events may adversely impact critical infrastructure, have the potential to disrupt our business, our third-party suppliers, or the business of our customers, and may cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation. Inflation has the potential to adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity by increasing our overall cost structure, particularly if we are unable to achieve commensurate increases in the prices we charge our customers. The existence of inflation in the economy has the potential to result in higher interest rates and capital costs, supply shortages, increased costs of labor and other similar effects. Further, world events such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine could affect inflationary trends. As a result of inflation, we have experienced and may continue to experience, increases in our costs associated with operating our business including labor, equipment and other inputs. Although we may take measures to mitigate the impact of this inflation through pricing actions and efficiency gains, if these measures are not effective our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Even if such measures are effective, there could be a difference between the timing of when these beneficial actions impact our results of operations and when the cost of inflation is incurred. We are and may become involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. We are currently, and from time to time in the future may become, subject to legal proceedings, claims, litigation and government investigations or inquiries, which could be expensive, lengthy, disruptive to normal business operations and occupy a significant amount of our employees time and attention. In addition, the outcome of any legal proceedings, claims, litigation, investigations or inquiries may be difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results, or financial condition. 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our principal executive offices are located at 110 West 44th Street (also known as 1133 Avenue of the Americas), New York, New York, in approximately 117,100 square feet of space under a lease expiring in December 2037. We also lease approximately 64,000 square feet of space under a lease expiring in March 2030 at 622 Broadway, New York, New York. Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Ltd, our wholly-owned subsidiary, leases approximately 39,500 square feet of office space in London, United Kingdom, which expires in December 2034 and owns two office buildings in Edinburgh, United Kingdom. 2K corporate offices and two development studios occupy approximately 123,000 square feet of leased office space in Novato, California. The lease expires in October 2033 with respect to approximately 59,000 square feet and July 2025 with respect to approximately 64,000 square feet. Zynga corporate office occupy approximately 62,000 square feet of leased office space in San Mateo, California. The lease expires in June 2032. In addition, Zynga leases approximately 185,000 square feet for its former corporate headquarters located in San Francisco, California, which is now closed. The lease expires in June 2031. In addition, our other subsidiaries lease office space in Sydney and Pyrmont, Australia; Halifax, Oakville, Montreal, Parksville, Toronto, and Vancouver, Canada; Chengdu, Beijing, Hong Kong, and Shanghai, China; Brno and Prague, Czech Republic; Helsinki, Finland; Cesson-Svign and Paris, France; Munich and Berlin, Germany; Budapest, Hungary; Bangalore, India; Dublin, Ireland; Tel Aviv, Israel; Tokyo, Japan; Amsterdam and Breda, Netherlands; Belgrade, Serbia; Singapore; Seoul, South Korea; Barcelona, Madrid, and Valencia, Spain; Luzerne, Switzerland; Taipei, Taiwan; Istanbul, Turkey; Brighton, Dundee, London, Lincoln, Leeds, and Oxford, United Kingdom; and, in the United States: Agoura Hills, Carlsbad, Foothill Ranch, Petaluma, Moorpark, San Jose, Irvine, and San Mateo, California; Chicago, Illinois; Sparks, Maryland; Andover and Westwood, Massachusetts; Las Vegas, Nevada; Bethpage and New York, New York; Eugene, Oregon; Austin, Texas; and Kirkland and Seattle, Washington. For information regarding our lease commitments, see Note 13 - Leases to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Refer to Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies to our Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures regarding our legal proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information and Holders Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "TTWO." The number of record holders of our common stock was 345 as of May 5, 2023. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends. We currently anticipate that all future earnings will be retained to finance the growth of our business and we do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends in the future is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon future earnings, capital requirements and other relevant factors. Our Credit Agreement requires us to meet certain incurrence tests prior to paying a dividend. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7 for additional information on our Credit Agreement. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The table setting forth this information is included in Part IIIItem 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Share Repurchase ProgramOur Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 21.7 shares of our common stock. Under this program, we may purchase shares from time to time through a variety of methods, including in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws. Repurchases are subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, the trading price of the stock, our financial performance and other conditions. The program does not require us to repurchase shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, we repurchased 0.0, 1.3, and 0.0 shares of our common stock in the open market, respectively, for $0.0, $200.0, and $0.0, respectively, including commissions, as part of the program. As of March 31, 2023, we had repurchased a total of 11.7 shares of our common stock under the program, and 10.0 shares of our common stock remained available for repurchase under the share repurchase program. All of the repurchased shares are classified as Treasury stock in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Summary TableThe table below details the share repurchases that were made by us during the three months ended March 31, 2023: Period Shares purchased Average price per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the repurchase program January 1 - 31, 2023 10.0 February 1 - 28, 2023 10.0 March 1 - 31, 2023 10.0 Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Business We are a leading developer, publisher, and marketer of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. We develop, operate, and publish products principally through Rockstar Games, 2K, Private Division, and Zynga. Our products are currently designed for console gaming systems, PC, and mobile including smartphones and tablets. We deliver our products through physical retail, digital download, online platforms, and cloud streaming services. Refer to Item 1 - Business for additional discussion. 33 Zynga Acquisition and Related Debt Transactions We acquired Zynga on May 23, 2022, for consideration having an acquisition date fair value of $9,521.8, consisting of $3,992.4 in cash, the issuance of 46.3 shares of our common stock, valued at $5,377.7, and $151.7 of replacement equity awards attributable to the pre-acquisition service period. Refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Zynga is a leading developer of mobile games with a mission to connect the world through games. Also, in connection with the Zynga Acquisition, we entered into several debt transactions (refer to Note 11 - Debt). On April 14, 2022, we completed our offering and sale of $2,700.0 aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, consisting of $1,000.0 principal amount of our 3.300% Senior Notes due 2024 (the 2024 Notes), $600.0 principal amount of our 3.550% Senior Notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes), $600.0 principal amount of our 3.700% Senior Notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes), and $500.0 principal amount of our 4.000% Senior Notes due 2032 (the 2032 Notes and, together with the 2024 Notes, the 2025 Notes and the2027 Notes, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes were issued under an indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the Trustee). The 2024 Notes mature on March 28, 2024, and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.300%. The 2025 Notes mature on April 14, 2025, and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.550%. The 2027 Notes mature on April 14, 2027, and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.700%. The 2032 Notes mature on April 14, 2032, and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.000%. We will pay interest on the 2024 Notes semiannually on March 28 and September 28 of each year, commencing September 28, 2022. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, we made interest payments of $31.5. We will pay interest on each of the 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes, and 2032 Notes semi-annually on April 14 and October 14 of each year, commencing October 14, 2022. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, we made interest payments of $31.8. The proceeds of the Senior Notes were used to finance a portion of our acquisition of Zynga. On May 23, 2022, we entered into a new unsecured Credit Agreement (the "2022 Credit Agreement"), which replaced in its entirety the Company's prior Credit Agreement and provides for an unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with commitments of $500.0, including sublimits for (i) the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate face amount of up to $100.0 and (ii) borrowings and letters of credit denominated in Pounds Sterling, Euros, and Canadian Dollars in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0. In addition, the 2022 Credit Agreement contains uncommitted incremental capacity permitting the incurrence of up to an additional amount not to exceed the greater of $250.0 and 35.0% of the Company's Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the 2022 Credit Agreement). Loans under the 2022 Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate of (a) 0.000% to 0.625% above an alternate base rate (8.00% at March 31, 2023) or (b) 1.000% to 1.625% above Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), approximately 4.80% at March 31, 2023, which rates are determined by the Company's credit rating. On June 22, 2022, we drew down approximately $200.0 at 3.28% from our facility under the 2022 Credit Agreement. In December 2022, we fully repaid the $200.0 drawdown, and, at March 31, 2023, there were no borrowings under the 2022 Credit Agreement. On June 22, 2022, we entered into an unsecured 364-Day Term Loan Credit Agreement ("Term Loan"). The Term Loan provides for an unsecured 364-day term loan credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $350.0 and matures on June 21, 2023, and will bear interest at our election at a margin of (a) 0.000% to 0.375% above an alternate base rate (defined on the basis of prime rate) or (b) 0.750% to 1.375% above SOFR, which rates are determined by reference to our credit rating. We fully drew down on the Term Loan on June 22, 2022 at 3.6%. In April 2023, we fully repaid the $350.0 Term Loan. The proceeds from our draw-downs of the 2022 Credit Agreement and Term Loan were used to finance a portion of the settlement of the Convertible Notes acquired from Zynga. In total, we paid $321.62 for the tendered or converted 2024 Convertible Notes, including interest, and $845.14 for the tendered 2026 Convertible Notes in cash, and we issued 3.7 shares of our common stock upon the conversion of the 2024 Convertible Notes. After settlement of all Convertible Notes tendered or surrendered for conversion, $21.4 aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Convertible Notes remained outstanding and $29.40 aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Convertible Notes remained outstanding at March 31, 2023. Cybersecurity Incident In September 2022, we experienced a network intrusion in which an unauthorized third party illegally accessed and downloaded confidential information from our systems, including early development footage of the next installment in the Grand Theft Auto franchise. We immediately took steps to isolate and contain the incident. Rockstar Games did not experience and does not anticipate any disruption to its current services nor any long-term effect on its development timelines as a result of this incident. Subsequently, also in September 2022, we became aware that an unauthorized third party illegally accessed credentials for a vendor platform that 2K Games uses to provide help desk support to its customers. The unauthorized party sent a communication to certain players containing a malicious link. 2K Games immediately notified all affected users and took steps to restrict further unauthorized activity until service was restored. In connection with this activity (the Cybersecurity 34 Incident), we have incurred certain immaterial incremental one-time costs related to consultants, experts and data recovery efforts and expect to incur additional costs related to cybersecurity protections in the future. We are in the process of implementing a variety of measures to enhance further our cybersecurity protections. Popcore Acquisition We acquired Popcore on November 16, 2022 for initial consideration of $116.9 in cash, 0.6 shares of our common stock, and a contingent earn-out consideration arrangement that requires us to pay up to an aggregate of $105.0 in cash if Popcore achieves certain performance measures over each of the three calendar years following the closing. Refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Founded in 2018, Popcore is a mobile games company based in Berlin best known for Parking Jam 3D and Pull the Pin. Trends and Factors Affecting our Business Product Release Schedule. Our financial results are affected by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. Our Grand Theft Auto products in particular have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. Sales of Grand Theft Auto products generated 14.6% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. The timing of our Grand Theft Auto product releases may affect our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis. Economic Environment and Retailer Performance. We continue to monitor various macroeconomic and geopolitical factors that may affect our business in several areas, including consumer demand, pricing pressure on our products, credit quality of our receivables, and foreign currency exchange rates. For example, in response to the conflict in Ukraine, we suspended sales of our products in Russia and Belarus, which had a negative impact on our financial results. Actions taken to date and other potential actions could result in additional negative impact in future periods. Additionally, our business is dependent upon a limited number of customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for 79.6%, 79.0% and 78.4% of net revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of March 31, 2023, and 2022, five customers comprised 61.1% and 72.8% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively, with our significant customers (those that individually comprised more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance) accounting for 50.3% and 63.8% of such balance at March 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. We had three customers who accounted for 21.6%, 14.5%, and 14.2% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2023, and two customers who accounted for 43.5% and 20.3% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2022. We did not have any additional customers that exceeded 10% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2023, and 2022. The economic environment has affected our customers in the past, and may do so in the future. Bankruptcies or consolidations of our large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, due to uncollectible accounts receivable and the concentration of purchasing power among the remaining large retailers. There has been increased consolidation in our industry, as larger, better capitalized competitors will be in a stronger position to withstand prolonged periods of economic downturn and sustain their business through the financial volatility. Hardware Platforms. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game consoles manufactured by third parties, which comprised 43.1% of our net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. The success of our business is dependent upon the consumer acceptance of these platforms and the continued growth in the installed base of these platforms. When new hardware platforms are introduced, such as those released in November 2020 by Sony and Microsoft, demand for interactive entertainment used on older platforms typically declines, which may negatively affect our business during the market transition to the new consoles. The latest Sony and Microsoft consoles provide "backwards compatibility" (i.e., the ability to play games for the previous generation of consoles), which could mitigate the risk of such a decline. However, we cannot be certain how backwards compatibility will affect demand for our products. Further, events beyond our control may impact the availability of these new consoles, which may also affect demand. We manage our product delivery on each current and future platform in a manner we believe to be most effective to maximize our revenue opportunities and achieve the desired return on our investments in product development. Accordingly, our strategy for these platforms is to focus our development efforts on a select number of the highest quality titles. Online Content and Digital Distribution. The interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content through digital online delivery methods. We provide a variety of online delivered products and offerings. Virtually all of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct digital download (from digital storefronts we own and others owned by third parties) as well as a large selection of our catalog titles. In addition, we aim to drive ongoing engagement and incremental revenue from recurrent consumer spending on our titles through virtual currency, add-on content, and in-game purchases. As disclosed in our "Results of Operations," below, net 35 revenue from digital online channels comprised 95.1% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. We expect online delivery of games and game offerings to continue to be the primary part of our business over the long term. We also publish an expanding variety of titles for mobile, which are delivered to consumers through digital download, and are primarily distributed, marketed, and promoted through third parties, primarily Apples App Store and the Google Play Store. Virtual items for our mobile games are purchased through the payment processing systems of these platform providers. We generate a significant portion of our net revenue through the Apple and Google platforms and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future as we launch more games for mobile. Apple and Google generally have the discretion to set the amounts of their platform fees and change their platforms terms of service and other policies with respect to us or other developers at their sole discretion, and those changes may be unfavorable to us. These platform fees are recorded as cost of revenue as incurred. Further, as a result of the platform fees associated with online game sales, our mobile Net revenue generally generates a lower gross margin percentage than our Console or PC revenue. Accordingly, the overall product mix between mobile and other game sales may affect our gross margin percentage. We are also starting to expand our direct-to-consumer efforts more meaningfully across our mobile portfolio to enhance profitability. Player acquisition costs. Principally for our mobile titles, we use advertising and other forms of player acquisition and retention to grow and retain our player audience. These expenditures, which are recorded within Sales and marketing in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, generally relate to the promotion of new game launches and ongoing performance-based programs to drive new player acquisition and lapsed player reactivation. Over time, these acquisition and retention-related programs may become either less effective or costlier, negatively impacting our operating results. Content Release Highlights During fiscal year 2023, 2K released The Quarry, NBA 2K23, PGA TOUR 2K23, New Tales from the Borderlands, Marvel's Midnight Suns, and WWE 2K23; and Private Division released Rollerdrome and Kerbal Space Program 2 early access on PC. To date we have announced that, during fiscal year 2024, 2K will release LEGO 2K Drive, NBA 2K24, and WWE 2K24; Zynga will release Star Wars Hunters; and Private Division will release After Us. In addition, throughout the year, we expect to continue to deliver new content for our franchises. We will also continue to invest in opportunities that we believe will enhance and scale our business and have the potential to drive growth over the long term. Fiscal 2023 Financial Summary Our net revenue for fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was led by net revenue of $2,159.2 from Zynga, which we acquired in May 2022 (refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions), including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, Toon Blast, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Words With Friends, and Merge Dragons!, as well as a variety of our top franchises, primarily NBA 2K, Grand Theft Auto, Red Dead Redemption, and WWE 2K. Our net revenue increased to $5,349.9, an increase of $1,845.1 or 52.6% compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, our net loss was $(1,124.7), as compared to net income of $418.0 in the prior year. Diluted loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was $(7.03), as compared to Diluted earnings per share of $3.58 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. Our operating loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was $(1,165.2) compared to operating income of $473.6 for fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, due to (i) higher cost of revenue due to fees paid to platform partners due to an increase in mobile revenues and higher amortization of intangible assets as a result of the Zynga acquisition and (ii) higher operating expenses for marketing, personnel, and amortization of intangible assets as a result the Zynga acquisition. At March 31, 2023, we had $1,234.6 of Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash and cash equivalents, compared to $2,195.4 at March 31, 2022. The decrease in Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash and cash equivalents from March 31, 2022 was due to Net cash used by investing activities primarily related to our acquisition of Zynga (refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions). This net decrease was partially offset by Net cash provided by financing activities (refer to Note 11 - Debt), primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes and a draw-down on our Term Loan, which were partially offset by payments for Convertible Notes that were assumed as part of our Zynga acquisition. To a lesser extent, the net decrease was also partially offset by Net cash provided by operating activities from sales of our products, primarily from the previously mentioned titles, partially offset by working capital requirements used in the development, sale, and support of our products, including for personnel, as well as payments for interest on our debt and transaction-related costs related to our Zynga Acquisition. 36 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our most critical accounting policies, which are those that require significant judgment, include revenue recognition; price protection and allowances for returns; capitalization and recognition of software development costs and licenses; fair value estimates including valuation of goodwill, and intangible assets; valuation and recognition of stock-based compensation; and income taxes. See Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies. Operating Metric Net Bookings We monitor Net Bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business. Net Bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically during the period and includes licensing fees, merchandise, in-game advertising, strategy guides, and publisher incentives. Net Bookings were as follows: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease) % Net Bookings $ 5,283.6 $ 3,408.2 $ 1,875.4 55.0 % For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, Net Bookings increased by $1,875.4 as compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to Net Bookings from Zynga, which we acquired in May 2022 (refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions), including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Words With Friends, and Merge Dragons!. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in Net Bookings from our Grand Theft Auto and Borderlands franchises. 37 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. For the comparison of fiscal year 2022 to fiscal year 2021, refer to Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2022. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our statements of operations, net revenue by geographic region, net revenue by platform, net revenue by distribution channel, and net revenue by content type: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2023 2022 2021 Total net revenue $ 5,349.9 100.0 % $ 3,504.8 100.0 % $ 3,372.8 100.0 % Cost of revenue 3,064.6 57.3 % 1,535.4 43.8 % 1,535.1 45.5 % Gross profit 2,285.3 42.7 % 1,969.4 56.2 % 1,837.7 54.5 % Selling and marketing 1,592.6 29.8 % 516.4 14.7 % 445.0 13.2 % Research and development 892.5 16.7 % 406.6 11.6 % 317.3 9.4 % General and administrative 843.1 15.8 % 511.7 14.6 % 390.4 11.6 % Depreciation and amortization 122.3 2.3 % 61.1 1.7 % 55.6 1.6 % Total operating expenses 3,450.5 64.5 % 1,495.8 42.7 % 1,208.3 35.8 % (Loss) income from operations (1,165.2) (21.8) % 473.6 13.5 % 629.4 18.7 % Interest and other, net (141.9) (2.7) % (14.2) (0.4) % 8.8 0.3 % (Loss) gain on fair value adjustments, net (31.0) (0.6) % 6.0 0.2 % 39.6 1.2 % (Loss) income before income taxes (1,338.1) (25.0) % 465.4 13.3 % 677.8 20.1 % (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (213.4) (4.0) % 47.4 1.4 % 88.9 2.6 % Net (loss) income $ (1,124.7) (21.0) % $ 418.0 11.9 % $ 588.9 17.5 % Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net revenue by geographic region: United States $ 3,360.0 62.8 % $ 2,100.2 59.9 % $ 2,015.9 59.8 % International 1,989.9 37.2 % 1,404.6 40.1 % 1,356.9 40.2 % Net revenue by platform: Mobile $ 2,538.6 47.5 % $ 403.4 11.5 % $ 274.1 8.1 % Console 2,303.8 43.1 % 2,528.9 72.2 % 2,517.0 74.6 % PC and other 507.5 9.5 % 572.5 16.3 % 581.7 17.2 % Net revenue by distribution channel: Digital online $ 5,085.7 95.1 % $ 3,149.0 89.8 % $ 2,972.4 88.1 % Physical retail and other 264.2 4.9 % 355.8 10.2 % 400.4 11.9 % Net revenue by content: Recurrent consumer spending $ 4,180.4 78.1 % $ 2,271.2 64.8 % $ 2,152.0 63.8 % Full game and other 1,169.5 21.9 % 1,233.6 35.2 % 1,220.8 36.2 % Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (millions of dollars) 2023 % of net revenue 2022 % of net revenue Increase/(decrease) % Increase/(decrease) Total net revenue $ 5,349.9 100.0 % $ 3,504.8 100.0 % $ 1,845.1 52.6 % Software development costs and royalties(1) 1,604.8 30.0 % 417.4 11.9 % 1,187.4 284.5 % Product costs 714.0 13.3 % 243.9 7.0 % 470.1 192.7 % Internal royalties 438.9 8.2 % 619.9 17.7 % (181.0) (29.2) % Licenses 306.9 5.7 % 254.2 7.3 % 52.7 20.7 % Cost of revenue 3,064.6 57.3 % 1,535.4 43.8 % 1,529.2 99.6 % Gross profit $ 2,285.3 42.7 % $ 1,969.4 56.2 % $ 315.9 16.0 % (1) Includes $(9.5) and $48.4 of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal year 2023 and 2022, respectively. 38 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, net revenue increased by $1,845.1, as compared to the prior year. The increase was due primarily to net revenue of $2,159.2 from Zynga, which we acquired in May 2022 (refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions), including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Words With Friends, and Merge Dragons!, partially offset by a decrease in net revenue of $302.6 from our Grand Theft Auto franchise and $71.9 from our Borderlands franchise. Net revenue from console games decreased by $225.1 and accounted for 43.1% of our total net revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 72.2% in the prior year. The decrease was due to a decrease in net revenue from our Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption franchises, partially offset by an increase in net revenue from The Quarry, which released in June 2022 and our WWE 2K franchise. Net revenue from PC and other decreased by $65.0 and accounted for 9.5% of our total net revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 16.3% in the prior year. The decrease was due to a decrease in net revenue from our Borderlands, Grand Theft Auto, and Red Dead Redemption franchises, partially offset by an increase in net revenue from Zynga and Marvel's Midnight Suns. Net revenue from mobile increased by $2,135.2 and accounted for 47.5% of our total net revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 11.5% in the prior year. The increase was due to an increase in net revenue of $2,145.2 from Zynga, including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Words With Friends, and Merge Dragons!, as well as an increase in Top Eleven, partially offset by a decrease in Two Dots. Net revenue from digital online channels increased by $1,936.7 and accounted for 95.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 89.8% in the prior year. The increase was due to net revenue of $2,158.5 from Zynga, including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Words With Friends, and Merge Dragons!, as well as an increase in net revenue from Top Eleven. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from our Grand Theft Auto, Borderlands and Red Dead Redemption franchises. Net revenue from physical retail and other channels decreased by $91.6 and accounted for 4.9% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 10.2% for the prior year. The decrease was due to a decrease in net revenue from our Grand Theft Auto and NBA 2K franchises. Recurrent consumer spending is generated from ongoing consumer engagement and includes revenue from virtual currency, add-on content, in-game purchases, and in-game advertising. Net revenue from recurrent consumer spending increased by $1,909.2 and accounted for 78.1% of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 64.8% for the prior year. The increase was due to an increase in net revenue of $2,125.3 from Zynga, including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Words With Friends, and Merge Dragons!, as well as an increase in net revenue from Top Eleven, partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from our Grand Theft Auto franchise.Net revenue from full game and other decreased by $64.1 and accounted for 21.9% of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 35.2% for the prior year. The decrease was due to a decrease in net revenue from our Grand Theft Auto, Borderlands, and Red Dead Redemption franchises, partially offset by an increase in net revenue from The Quarry, Zynga, and our WWE 2K franchise. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was 42.7%, as compared to 56.2% in the prior year. The percentage decrease was due primarily to (i) higher amortization related to intangible assets related to our Zynga acquisition, including a $465.3 impairment charge (refer to Note 9 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets, net), and (ii) higher product costs for fees paid to platform partners due to an increase in mobile revenues as a result of the Zynga acquisition, partially offset by (i) lower internal royalties due to the timing of when royalties are earned and (ii) lower capitalized software amortization due to the timing of releases. Net revenue earned outside of the United States increased by $585.3 and accounted for 37.2% of our total net revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to 40.1% in the prior year. The increase in net revenue outside of the United States was due to net revenue of $732.1 from Zynga, including top contributors Empires & Puzzles, our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Zynga Poker, and Merge Dragons!, as well asan increase in net revenue from Top Eleven. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from our Grand Theft Auto franchise. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased net revenue and gross profit by $34.1 and $18.3, respectively, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year. 39 Operating Expenses (millions of dollars) 2023 % of net revenue 2022 % of net revenue Increase/(decrease) % Increase/(decrease) Selling and marketing $ 1,592.6 29.8 % $ 516.4 14.7 % $ 1,076.2 208.4 % Research and development 892.5 16.7 % 406.6 11.6 % 485.9 119.5 % General and administrative 843.1 15.8 % 511.7 14.6 % 331.4 64.8 % Depreciation and amortization 122.3 2.3 % 61.1 1.7 % 61.2 100.2 % Total operating expenses $ 3,450.5 64.5 % $ 1,495.8 42.7 % $ 1,954.7 130.7 % Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated as follows (in millions): 2023 2022 Selling and marketing $ 95.2 $ 30.0 Research and development 116.6 38.1 General and administrative 115.5 66.5 Foreign currency exchange rates decreased total operating expenses by $72.0 in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year. Selling and marketing Selling and marketing expenses increased by $1,076.2 in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year, due primarily to (i) marketing expense for titles from our Zynga acquisition, including our hyper-casual mobile portfolio, Toon Blast, Merge Dragons!, Empires & Puzzles, and Toy Blast, (ii) higher amortization related to intangible assets related to our Zynga acquisition, and (iii) higher personnel expenses for additional headcount, including related to our acquisition of Zynga. Research and development Research and development expenses increased by $485.9 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year, due primarily to an increase in (i) personnel expenses due to increased headcount, including related to our acquisition of Zynga and (ii) production and development expenses related to Zynga. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $331.4 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year, due primarily to increases in (i) professional fees related to our acquisition and integration of Zynga, (ii) personnel expenses for additional headcount, including our acquisition of Zynga, (iii) higher rent expense for additional locations and lease renewals, including our acquisition of Zynga, and (iv) right-of-use asset impairment expense related to Zynga's San Francisco office (see Note 13- Leases). General and administrative expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 include occupancy expense (primarily rent, utilities and office expenses) of $66.8 and $37.2, respectively, related to our development studios. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $61.2 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year, due primarily to acquired intangible assets and depreciation expense related to Zynga. Interest and other, net (millions of dollars) 2023 % of net revenue 2022 % of net revenue Increase/(decrease) % Increase/(decrease) Interest income $ 33.8 0.6 % $ 17.6 0.5 % $ 16.2 92.0 % Interest expense (129.6) (2.4) % (18.6) (0.5) % (111.0) 596.8 % Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) (31.8) (0.6) % (7.3) (0.2) % (24.5) 335.6 % Other (14.3) (0.3) % (5.9) (0.2) % (8.4) 142.4 % Interest and other, net $ (141.9) (2.7) % $ (14.2) (0.4) % $ (127.7) 899.3 % Interest and other, net was expense of $141.9 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, as compared to $14.2 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. The increase in expense was due primarily to interest expense related to our Senior Notes, 40 Term Loan, 2022 Credit Agreement, and an unsecured bridge loan facility related to our acquisition of Zynga, including the amortization of related deferred costs, in connection with our acquisition of Zynga (refer to Note 11 - Debt and Note 20 - Acquisitions) and foreign currency losses. Gain/(loss) on long-term investments, net Gain/(loss) on long-term investments, net for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was a loss of $31.0 compared to a gain of $6.0 in the prior year period. The change was due primarily to a loss relating to our Convertible Notes, partially offset by a gain related to our Capped Calls, both as result of our Zynga Acquisition (refer to Note 11 - Debt and Note 20 - Acquisitions). Provision for income taxes Our benefit from income taxes was $213.4 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to income tax expense of $47.4 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. When compared to the statutory rate of 21%, the effective tax rate of 15.9% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was due primarily to an expense of $84.0 from an increase in the U.S. valuation allowance, expense of $39.7 from our geographic mix and foreign earnings, and $20.2 nondeductible expense relating to compensation expense related to covered employees pursuant to Section 162(m) and loss on the redemption of convertible debt, partially offset by a $76.8 benefit from tax credits anticipated to be utilized. When compared to the statutory rate of 21%, the effective tax rate of 10.2% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 was due primarily to a $30.9 benefit from tax credits anticipated to be utilized, $14.6 in excess tax benefits from employee stock compensation, an $11.6 benefit due to an increase to the net deferred tax asset that arose from a step up in tax basis related to the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AVH (Old-Age and Survivors Insurance) Financing ("TRAF") enacted in Switzerland, discussed below, and an $8.0 benefit from our geographic mix of earnings, partially offset by a $10.1 nondeductible expense due to an increase in fair value of the contingent consideration liability associated with the acquisition of Nordeus. The effective tax rate in the current year was higher compared to the prior year primarily due to increased benefits from tax credits and reduced benefits from excess tax benefits from employee stock compensation, partially offset by increased expense related to an increase in our valuation allowance, increased expense from nondeductible costs, and the impact of geographic mix and foreign earnings. The accounting for share-based compensation will increase or decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the deductions taken on our tax return, which depends on the stock price at the time of the employee award vesting. We anticipate that additional excess tax benefits or shortfalls from employee stock compensation, tax credits, changes in valuation allowance, and changes in our geographic mix of earnings could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate in the future. In addition, we are regularly examined by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Examinations may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the payment of additional taxes. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable tax assessments. It is possible that settlement of audits or the expiration of the statute of limitations could have an impact on our effective tax rate in future periods. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) requires taxpayers to capitalize and amortize research and development costs pursuant to Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") Section 174. The requirement was effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2022. The actual impact of Section 174 capitalization and amortization on the income tax payable and deferred tax asset will depend on multiple factors, including the amount of research and development expenses we will incur and whether we conduct our research and development activities inside or outside the United States. Section 174 capitalization increased the income tax payable by $46.7 and deferred tax assets by $128.9. The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARPA), among other things, includes provisions to expand the IRC Section 162(m) disallowance for deduction of certain compensation paid by publicly held corporations. Effective for tax years starting after December 31, 2026 (April 1, 2027 for the Company), the ARPA expands the limitation to cover the next five most highly compensated employees. The ARPA did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. We continue to evaluate the potential impact the ARPA may have on our operations and Consolidated Financial Statements in future periods. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Inflation Reduction Act) includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of corporations with an average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a consecutive three-year period. The CAMT is effective for the taxable year ending 41 March 31, 2024. It is possible that the CAMT could result in an additional tax liability over the regular federal corporate tax liability in a particular year based on differences between book and taxable income. We will continue to evaluate the potential impact the Inflation Reduction Act may have on our operations and Consolidated Financial Statements in future periods. On May 19, 2019, a public referendum held in Switzerland approved the TRAF, which was effective for us on January 1, 2020. The TRAF abolished preferential tax regimes for holding companies, domicile companies, and mixed companies at the cantonal level. The TRAF allows the cantons to establish transition rules, the implementation of which may be subject to a ruling from the canton. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, we recorded a net tax benefit of $5.7 due to an increase of the deferred tax asset of $20.6, offset by an increasein the valuation of allowance of $14.9, as it is more-likely-than-not that such deferred tax assets would be realized. As of March 31, 2023, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, of $294.8, of which $137.2 would affect our effective tax rate if realized. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, gross unrecognized tax benefits increased by $118.8. We are no longer subject to audit for U.S. federal income tax returns for periods prior to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 and state income tax returns for periods prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Certain taxing authorities are currently examining our income tax returns for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 through March 31, 2021. Net (loss) income and (loss) earnings per share For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, our Net loss was $1,124.7, as compared to income of $418.0 in the prior year. Diluted loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 was $7.03, as compared to diluted earnings per share of $3.58 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. Basic weighted average shares of 159.9 were 43.1 higher due primarily to stock issued as consideration for the Zynga Acquisition and for the conversion of Convertible Notes. See Note 12 - (Loss) EarningsPer Share to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary cash requirements are to fund (i) the development, manufacturing and marketing of our published products, (ii) working capital, (iii) capital expenditures, (iv) debt and interest payments, (v) acquisitions, and (vi) tax payments. We expect to rely on cash and cash equivalents as well as on short-term investments, funds provided by our operating activities, and our 2022 Credit Agreement to satisfy our working capital needs. Refer to Note 11 - Debt for additional discussion of our outstanding debt obligations. Short-term Investments As of March 31, 2023, we had $187.0 of short-term investments, which are readily marketable in nature and represent an investment of cash that is available for current operations. From time to time, we may purchase additional short-term investments depending on future market conditions and liquidity needs. As of March 31, 2023, based on the composition of our investment portfolio and actions taken in recent months by central banks around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve, in response to the rising inflation and related adverse economic conditions, we anticipate investment yields may increase, which could increase our future interest income. Such impact is not expected to be material to our liquidity. Senior Notes On April 14, 2022, we completed our offering and sale of $2,700.0 aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, consisting of $1,000.0 principal amount of our 3.300% Senior Notes due 2024 (the 2024 Notes), $600.0 principal amount of our 3.550% Senior Notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes), $600.0 principal amount of our 3.700% Senior Notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes), and $500.0 principal amount of our 4.000% Senior Notes due 2032 (the 2032 Notes and, together with the 2024 Notes, the 2025 Notes and the 2027 Notes, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes were issued under an indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee. The Senior Notes are the Companys senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our other existing and future unsubordinated obligations. The 2024 Notes mature on March 28, 2024 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.300%. The 2025 Notes mature on April 14, 2025 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.550%. The 2027 Notes mature on April 14, 2027 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.700%. The 2032 Notes mature on April 14, 2032 and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.000%. We will pay interest on the 2024 Notes semi-annually on March 28 and September 28 of each year, commencing September 28, 2022. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, we made interest payments of $31.5. We will pay interest on each of the 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes, and 2032 Notes semi-annually on April 14 and October 14 of each year, commencing 42 October 14, 2022. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, we made interest payments of $31.8. The proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes were used to finance a portion of our acquisition of Zynga. On April 14, 2023, we completed our offering and sale of $1,000.0 aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, consisting of $500.0 principal amount of our 5.000% Senior Notes due 2026 (the "2026 Notes") and $500.0 principal amount of our 4.950% Senior Notes due 2028 (the "2028 Notes"). The 2026 Notes mature on March 28, 2026 and bear interest at an annual rate of 5.000%. The 2028 Notes mature on March 28, 2028 and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.950%. We will pay interest on the 2026 Notes and 2028 Notes semi-annually on March 28 and September 28 of each year, commencing September 28, 2023. The 2026 Notes and 2028 Notes were issued under an indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee. These notes are the Companys senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our other existing and future unsubordinated obligations. Credit Agreement On May 23, 2022, we entered into a new unsecured Credit Agreement (the "2022 Credit Agreement"), which replaced in its entirety the Company's prior Credit Agreement, dated as of February 8, 2019, which was paid off in full and terminated. The 2022 Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with commitments of $500.0, including sublimits for (i) the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate face amount of up to $100.0 and (ii) borrowings and letters of credit denominated in Pounds Sterling, Euros, and Canadian Dollars in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0. In addition, the 2022 Credit Agreement contains uncommitted incremental capacity permitting the incurrence of up to an additional amount not to exceed the greater of $250.0 and 35.0% of the Company's Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the 2022 Credit Agreement). Loans under the 2022 Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate of (a) 0.000% to 0.625% above an alternate base rate (8.00% at March 31, 2023) or (b) 1.000% to 1.625% above Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), approximately 4.80% at March 31, 2023, which rates are determined by the Company's credit rating. On June 22, 2022, we drew down $200.0 at approximately 3.28% from our facility under the 2022 Credit Agreement. The proceeds were used to finance a portion of the repurchase of the Convertible Notes. In December 2022, we fully repaid the $200.0 drawdown. As of March 31, 2023, there were no borrowings under the 2022 Credit Agreement, and we had approximately $499.5 available for additional borrowings. The 2022 Credit Agreement also includes, among other terms and conditions, a maximum leverage ratio covenant, as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict the Company and its subsidiaries ability to, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens, and dispose of all or substantially all assets, in each case subject to certain exceptions and baskets. In addition, the 2022 Credit Agreement provides for events of default customary for a credit facility of this size and type, including, among others, non-payment of principal and interest when due thereunder, breaches of representations and warranties, noncompliance with covenants, acts of insolvency, cross-defaults to material indebtedness, and material judgment defaults (subject to certain limitations and cure periods). Term Loan On June 22, 2022, we entered into an unsecured 364-Day Term Loan Credit Agreement ("Term Loan"). The Term Loan provides for an unsecured 364-day term loan credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $350.0 and matures on June 21, 2023, and will bear interest at our election at a margin of (a) 0.000% to 0.375% above an alternate base rate (defined on the basis of prime rate) or (b) 0.750% to 1.375% above SOFR, which rates are determined by reference to our credit rating. We fully drew down on the Term Loan on June 22, 2022 at approximately 3.60%. The proceeds were used to finance a portion of the repurchase of the Convertible Notes (refer to Note 11 - Debt). In April 2023, we fully repaid the $350.0 Term Loan. Financial Condition We are subject to credit risks, particularly if any of our receivables represent a limited number of customers or are concentrated in foreign markets. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our liquidity and working capital position. Generally, we have been able to collect our accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment from customers. We have trade credit insurance on the majority of customers who sell our physical products to mitigate accounts receivable risk. A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to major retailers, including digital storefronts and platform partners, and distributors. Our five largest customers accounted for 79.6%, 79.0%, and 78.4% of net revenue during the fiscal 43 years ended March 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, five customers accounted for 61.1% and 72.8% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively. Customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance comprised 50.3% and 63.8% of such balances at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We had three customers who accounted for 21.6%, 14.5%, and 14.2% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2023 and two customers who accounted for 43.5%, and 20.3% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2022. We did not have any additional customers that exceeded 10% of our gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2023 and 2022. Based upon performing ongoing credit evaluations, maintaining trade credit insurance on a majority of our customers who sell our physical products and our past collection experience, we believe that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not represent a significant credit risk, although we actively monitor each customer's creditworthiness and economic conditions that may affect our customers' business and access to capital. We are monitoring the current global economic conditions, including credit markets and other factors as it relates to our customers in order to manage the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and projected cash flow from operations, along with availability under our 2022 Credit Agreement will provide us with sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, and commitments on both a short-term and long-term basis. Our liquidity and capital resources have not been materially affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and related volatility and slowdown in the global financial markets to date. For further discussion regarding the potential future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic conditions on our business, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. As of March 31, 2023, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $329.7. These balances are dispersed across various locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the business and liquidity needs of our foreign affiliates. In addition, we expect to have the ability to generate sufficient cash domestically to support ongoing operations for the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 21.7 shares of our common stock. Under this program, we may purchase shares from time to time through a variety of methods, including in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws. Repurchases are subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, the trading price of the stock, our financial performance and other conditions. The program does not require us to repurchase shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, we repurchased 0.0, 1.3, and 0.0 shares of our common stock, respectively, in the open market for $0.0, $200.0, and $0.0, respectively, including commissions as part of the program. As of March 31, 2023, we had repurchased a total of 11.7 shares of our common stock under the program, and 10.0 shares of our common stock remained available for repurchase under the share repurchase program. Our changes in cash flows were as follows: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, (millions of dollars) 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1.1 $ 258.0 $ 912.3 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (2,876.3) 139.2 (806.8) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,930.3 (256.8) (57.4) Effects of foreign currency exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents (15.9) (5.2) 18.6 Net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents $ (960.8) $ 135.2 $ 66.8 At March 31, 2023, we had $1,234.6 of Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents, compared to $2,195.4 at March 31, 2022. The decrease was due to Net cash used in investing activities primarily related to our Zynga Acquisition (refer to Note 20 - Acquisitions). This net decrease was partially offset by Net cash provided by financing activities (refer to Note 11 - Debt), primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of Senior Notes and draw-downs on our Term Loan, which were partially offset by payments for Convertible Notes that were part of our Zynga Acquisition. To a lesser extent, the net decrease was also partially offset by Net cash provided by operating activities from sales of our products, partially offset by working capital requirements used in the development, sale, and support of our products, including for personnel, as well as payments for interest on our debt and transaction-related costs related to our Zynga Acquisition. 44 Commitments Refer to Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies to our Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures regarding our commitments. Capital Expenditures In fiscal year 2024, we anticipate capital expenditures to be $180. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, we did not have any material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. International Operations Net revenue earned outside of the United States is principally generated by our operations in Europe, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, 37.2%, 40.1% and 40.2%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the United States. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant effect on our operating results. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results and Seasonality We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results as a result of the timing of the introduction of new titles, variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms, market acceptance of our titles, development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles, sequels or enhancements of existing titles, projected and actual changes in platforms, the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors, product returns, changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors, the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand, the size and timing of acquisitions, the timing of orders from major customers, and order cancellations and delays in product shipment. Sales of our full game products are also seasonal, with peak demand typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter during the holiday season. For certain of our software products with multiple performance obligations, we defer the recognition of our net revenue over an estimated service period which generally ranges from six to fifteen months. As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest Net Bookings may be different from the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of Net revenue. Quarterly comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.