Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements contained herein which are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws and may be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "potential," "predicts," "projects," "seeks," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the Company's future business and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to them, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may vary materially from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of risks and uncertainties including those contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, in the section entitled "Risk Factors," and the Company's other periodic filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements and apply only as of the date they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is provided in addition to the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the MD&A included in our annual consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2009. Overview Our Business We are a global publisher and developer of interactive entertainment software. Our business consists of our wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K, which publishes its titles under 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play. We develop, publish, market and sell software titles for the leading gaming and entertainment hardware platforms including: Sony's PlayStation3 ("PS3") and PlayStation2 ("PS2") computer entertainment systems; Sony's PSP (PlayStationPortable) ("PSP") system; Microsoft's Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360") video game and entertainment system; Nintendo's Wii ("Wii") and DS ("DS") systems; and for the PC and Games for Windows. We also selectively develop and publish titles for digital distribution via Sony's PlayStationNetwork ("PSN") and Microsoft's Xbox LIVE Marketplace ("Xbox LIVE") and Xbox LIVE Arcade ("XBLA"), as well as digitally offer our PC titles through online download stores and services such as Steam. We also develop and publish titles for the iPhone and iPod touch. The global installed base for the prior generation of platforms, including PS2 and DS ("prior generation platforms") is substantial. The release of the PS3, Xbox 360, and Wii platforms ("current generation platforms") has further expanded the video game software market. We are continuing to increase the number of titles released on the current generation platforms while also developing titles for certain prior generation platforms such as PS2 and DS given their significant installed base, as long as it is economically attractive to do so. We have pursued a strategy of capitalizing on the widespread market acceptance of interactive entertainment, as well as the growing popularity of innovative action, adventure, racing, role-playing, sports and strategy games that appeal to the expanding demographic of video game players. We endeavor to be the most creative, innovative and efficient company in our industry. Our strategy is to capitalize on the interactive entertainment market, particularly the expanding demographics of video game players, and focus on creating premium quality games and successful franchises for which we can create sequels. We develop most of our frontline products internally and own the intellectual property associated with most of our titles, which we believe best positions us financially and competitively. We 20 Table of Contents have established a portfolio of proprietary software content for the major hardware platforms in a wide range of genres including action, adventure, racing, role-playing, sports and strategy. We believe that our commitment to creativity and innovation is a distinguishing strength, allowing us to differentiate many of our products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired or licensed a group of highly recognizable brands to match the variety of consumer demographics we aspire to serve, ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers. Revenue is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third parties for our benefit. Operating margins are dependent in part upon our ability to continually release new, commercially successful products and to manage software product development costs. We have internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of the hit Grand Theft Auto and Midnight Club franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action product category and create groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing franchises as well as developing new brands. Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We believe that Rockstar has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with its Grand Theft Auto series and continues to expand on our established franchises by releasing sequels as well as offering downloadable episodes and content. In 2010, Rockstar released the critically acclaimed Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars on the iPhone and iPod touch. Rockstar is also well known for developing brands in other genres, including the Bully , Manhunt , Max Payne and Red Dead franchises, and introduced a new brand in the music genre in 2009 with Rockstar Games and Timbaland present Beaterator . Our 2K label publishes its titles under 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play. 2K Games has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across multiple genres and platforms and we expect 2K Games to continue to develop new and successful franchises in the future. 2K Games' internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling BioShock , Mafia , and Sid Meier's Civilization series. In February 2010, 2K Games released BioShock 2 , a new multiplayer experience that enhances the lore and fiction of the BioShock universe. 2K Games also expanded the Sid Meier's Civilization series by releasing Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution onto mobile platforms for the iPhone and iPod touch. 2K Games expects to further expand upon the Civilization franchise by introducing Civilization Network exclusively on Facebook in calendar 2010. 2K Games has also published titles that were externally developed, such as The Darkness , The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and Borderlands , which has become another key franchise for 2K Games since its launch in the fourth quarter of 2009. 2K Sports develops most of its software titles through our internal development studios including the Major League Baseball 2K series, NBA 2K series, NHL 2K series, and our Top Spin tennis series. 2K Sports has secured long-term, third party exclusive licensing relationships with Major League Baseball Properties, the Major League Baseball Players Association and Major League Baseball Advanced Media. In addition, 2K Sports has secured licensing agreements with the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the National Hockey League (NHL). NBA 2K10 was the best selling and highest rated basketball game for the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system from Microsoft and the PlayStation3 computer entertainment system through January 2010, according to The NPD Group's estimates of U.S. retail video game sales and Metacritic.com. 2K Sports also has expansion initiatives in the rapidly growing Asia markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea. In 2009, 2K Sports secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of the NBA simulation game in China, Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. At the same time, 2K Sports also announced a partnership with Tencent Holdings Limited, one of China's leading online game operators, to co-develop and distribute NBA 2K Online in China. 21 Table of Contents 2K Play focuses on developing and publishing titles for the growing market of casual and family-friendly games. 2K Play titles are developed by both internal development studios and third party developers. Internally developed titles include Carnival Games and Birthday Party Bash . In Fiscal 2010 2K Play released Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, a new licensed casual and family-friendly, internally developed game. 2K Play also has a partnership with Nickelodeon to publish video games based on its top rated Nick Jr. titles such as Dora the Explorer ; Go, Diego, Go! ; Ni Hao, Kai-lan and The Backyardigans . In February 2010, 2K Play released The Misadventures of P.B. Winterbottom on XBLA and is working with several small independent developers to publish additional casual gaming titles for XBLA, such as Axel & Pixel. We expect family-oriented gaming to continue to be a component of our industry in the future. Discontinued operations In February 2010, we completed the sale to SYNNEX Corporation ("Synnex") of our Jack of all Games third party distribution business, which primarily distributed third party interactive entertainment software, hardware and accessories in North America for approximately $44.25 million, including $37.5 million in cash and up to an additional $6.75 million based on the achievement of certain items. The sale will allow us to focus our resources on our publishing operations. The financial results of this business, which were previously reported as our distribution business, have been classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of this business are reflected as assets and liabilities held for sale in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. See Note 3 to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. Trends and Factors Impacting our Business Product Release Schedule. Our financial results are impacted by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. Our Grand Theft Auto products in particular have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. The timing of our Grand Theft Auto releases vary significantly, which in turn impacts our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis. Economic Environment and Retailer Performance. We continue to monitor the adverse changes in economic conditions which may have unfavorable impacts on our business, such as deteriorating consumer demand, pricing pressure on our products, credit quality of our receivables, and foreign currency exchange rates. Our business is dependent upon a limited number of customers who account for a significant portion of our revenue. The unfavorable economic environment has impacted several of our customers, and is expected to continue to do so during fiscal 2010. Bankruptcies or consolidations of our large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, due to uncollectible accounts receivables and the concentration of purchasing power among the remaining large retailers. Our business is also negatively impacted by the actions of certain of our large customers, who sell used copies of our games, which reduces demand for new copies of our games. We have begun to offer downloadable episodes for certain of our titles, which require the user to have a copy of the original game. While this may serve to reduce some used game sales, we expect sales of used games to continue to increase. Hardware Platforms. The majority of our products are made for the hardware platforms developed by three companiesSony, Microsoft and Nintendo. When new hardware platforms are introduced, demand for software based on older platforms declines, which may negatively impact our business. Additionally, our development costs are generally higher for titles based on new platforms, and we have limited ability to predict the consumer acceptance of the new platforms, which may impact our sales and profitability. As a result, we believe it is important to focus our development efforts on a select number of titles, which is consistent with our strategy. 22 Table of Contents International Operations. Sales in international markets, primarily in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. We have also recently expanded our Asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. We are subject to risks associated with foreign trade, including credit risks and consumer acceptance of our products, and our financial results may be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. First Quarter 2010 Releases We did not release any key titles in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Product Pipeline We have announced expected release dates for the following key titles (this list does not represent all titles currently in development): BioShock 2 2K Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC February 9, 2010 (released) Red Dead Redemption Rockstar Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360 May 18, 2010 L.A. Noire Rockstar Games External PS3, Xbox 360 Fiscal year 2010 Mafia II 2K Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC Fiscal year 2010 Max Payne 3 Rockstar Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC Fiscal year 2010 Sid Meier's Civilization V 2K Games Internal PC Fiscal year 2010 NBA 2K11 2K Sports Internal TBA Fiscal year 2010 Spec Ops: The Line 2K Games External PS3, Xbox 360, PC Fiscal Year 2011 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our most critical accounting policies, which are those that require significant judgment, include: revenue recognition; allowances for returns, price concessions and other allowances; capitalization and recognition of software development costs and licenses; fair value estimates including inventory obsolescence, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets; valuation and recognition of stock-based compensation; and income taxes. In-depth descriptions of these can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Business Combinations On November 1, 2009 the Company adopted the guidance that requires acquiring entities in a business combination to recognize all assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction, establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and requires the acquirer to disclose the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The guidance also requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies be recognized at fair value, if fair value can be determined during the measurement period. This new rule specifies that an asset or liability should be recognized at time of acquisition if the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated and that it is probable that an asset existed or that a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations. IntangiblesGoodwill and Other On November 1, 2009 the Company adopted the guidance issued for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset which applies prospectively to intangible assets acquired individually or with a group of other assets in either an asset acquisition or business combination. The adoption of this 23 Table of Contents guidance did not have any impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Debt On November 1, 2009 the Company adopted the guidance specifying that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner reflecting the Company's non-convertible debt borrowing rate. In June 2009, we issued $138.0 million of 4.375% convertible senior notes due 2014 ("Convertible Notes") which was classified as long-term debt at October 31, 2009. On November 1, 2009 we calculated the difference between the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and the remaining liability component after the bifurcation to be $43.6 million, which was reclassified to debt discount with a corresponding adjustment made to additional paid-in-capital. Also upon adoption of this new guidance, on November 1, 2009 we retrospectively adjusted the debt discount which is being amortized as non-cash interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations in addition to the Convertible Notes' coupon interest payments over the five year period of the Convertible Notes. For additional details on our Convertible Notes see Note 10 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Earnings Per Share On November 1, 2009 the Company adopted new guidance which clarified that stock-based payment awards that entitle holders to receive non-forfeitable dividends before they vest should be considered participating securities and included in the basic Earnings Per Share ("EPS") calculation. The adoption of this guidance did not have any impact on our consolidated results of operations. For additional details on our EPS calculation see Note 12 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value On November 1, 2009 the Company adopted new guidance which relates to the fair value measurement of liabilities. This guidance provides clarification that in circumstances in which quoted prices in an active market for the identical liability are not available, a reporting entity is required to measure fair value using a valuation technique that uses quoted prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset, quoted prices for similar liabilities when traded as an asset or another technique that is consistent with the Fair Value principles. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Amendments to Variable Interest Entity Guidance In June 2009, new guidance was issued which requires an enterprise to determine whether its variable interest or interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity is the enterprise that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impacts the entity's economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. The guidance also now requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. The guidance is effective at the start of a company's first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2009 (November 1, 2010 for the Company). We are evaluating the impact that the adoption of this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements In October 2009, new guidance was issued related to the accounting for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. These new rules amend the existing guidance for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable arrangements and establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. These new rules will become effective, on a prospective basis, at the start of a Company's first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2010 (November 1, 2010 for the Company). We are evaluating the impact that the adoption of this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements In October 2009, new guidance was issued that changes the accounting model for revenue arrangements by excluding tangible products containing both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product's essential functionality. This new rule will become effective, on a prospective basis, at the start of a Company's first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2010 (November 1, 2010 for the Company). We are evaluating the impact that the adoption of this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Note on Climate Change In February 2010, the SEC released its Commission Guidance Regarding Disclosure Related to Climate Change, calling on public companies to consider the potential impacts of global climate change-related regulation, international accords, and physical effects, including any indirect consequences of such. There are presently a number of current and proposed regulatory initiatives, both domestically and globally, that are geared towards limiting and scaling back the emission of greenhouse gases ("GHG"s), which certain scientists have linked to global climate change. While we do not anticipate any material adverse effects in the future based on the nature of our operations and the current or draft forms of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing or future laws will not indirectly impact our operations through, for example, increased energy, manufacturing, or distribution costs. Further, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has found that global climate change could increase the severity and perhaps the frequency of extreme weather events. Although we do not anticipate that such would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results, increased severe weather patterns could result in indirect consequences such as the disruption or impairment of certain of our product distribution channels. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated operating results, net revenue by geographic region and revenue by platform as a percent of net revenue are as follows: Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 61.5 % 68.8 % Gross profit 38.5 % 31.2 % Selling and marketing 25.2 % 25.9 % General and administrative 17.6 % 25.7 % Research and development 9.5 % 14.0 % Depreciation and amortization 2.5 % 3.2 % Total operating expenses 54.8 % 68.8 % Loss from operations (16.2 )% (37.6 )% Interest and other, net (2.9 )% 1.6 % Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (19.2 )% (36.0 )% Provision for income taxes 1.5 % 0.0 % Loss from continuing operations (20.7 )% (36.1 )% Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 0.0 % 2.3 % Net loss (20.8 )% (33.7 )% Net revenue by geographic region: United States and Canada 74.9 % 57.9 % Europe, Asia Pacific and Other 25.1 % 42.1 % Net Revenue by platform: Console 80.2 % 62.3 % Handheld 10.8 % 13.3 % PC 8.1 % 23.8 % Other 0.9 % 0.6 % 26 Table of Contents Three Months ended January 31, 2010 compared to January 31, 2009 Net revenue $ 163,238 100.0 % $ 149,351 100.0 % $ 13,887 9.3 % Product costs 53,079 32.5 % 51,762 34.7 % 1,317 2.5 % Software development costs and royalties (1) 37,330 22.9 % 23,302 15.6 % 14,028 60.2 % Internal royalties 2,118 1.3 % 20,472 13.7 % (18,354 ) (89.7 )% Licenses 7,831 4.8 % 7,181 4.8 % 650 9.1 % Cost of goods sold 100,358 61.5 % 102,717 68.8 % (2,359 ) (2.3 )% Gross profit $ 62,880 38.5 % $ 46,634 31.2 % $ 16,246 34.8 % (1) Includes $1,670 and $1,172 of stock-based compensation expense in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net revenue increased $13.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to revenue generated by our 2K label, led by the release of Borderlands in October 2009 and a $16.5 million year-over-year increase in our NBA franchise. Partially offsetting the increases in net revenue was a decrease in sales of our Grand Theft Auto franchise of $17.6 million as well as decreases in net revenue of our Carnival and Midnight Club franchises of $11.1 million and $7.4 million, respectively. Net revenue on current generation platforms accounted for approximately 74.1% of our total net revenue in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 52.9% for the same period in 2009. The increase is primarily due to the success of Borderlands on the PS3 and Xbox 360. PC sales decreased 62.8% primarily reflecting reduced sales of Grand Theft Auto IV on the PC, which launched in the first quarter of 2009. Handheld and prior generation sales decreased 18.8% as we expected volume on prior generation platforms to decline and therefore reduced the number of titles in development for these older platforms. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue increased in 2010 compared to the same period of the prior year due to lower internal royalty expense, which was primarily due to the lower revenue generated from our Grand Theft Auto franchise. Additionally, in 2009 we offered greater price concessions to our customers based on the economic slowdown and related pressure to lower prices on certain titles. The improvement in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue compared to the prior period was partially offset by higher development royalties on the externally developed Borderlands . Revenue earned outside of North America decreased to $41.0 million (25.1%) in the first quarter 2010 compared to $62.9 million (42.1%) in the first quarter 2009. The year-over-year decrease as a percentage of net sales was primarily attributable to higher sales of Grand Theft Auto IV and Midnight Club: Los Angeles in the first quarter 2009. Foreign exchange rates increased net revenue and gross profit by approximately $5.9 million and $0.3 million, respectively, in the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2009. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Selling and marketing $ 41,094 25.2 % $ 38,671 25.9 % $ 2,423 6.3 % General and administrative 28,695 17.6 % 38,455 25.7 % (9,760 ) (25.4 )% Research and development 15,455 9.5 % 20,943 14.0 % (5,488 ) (26.2 )% Depreciation and amortization 4,159 2.5 % 4,782 3.2 % (623 ) (13.0 )% Total operating expenses (1) $ 89,403 54.8 % $ 102,851 68.8 % $ (13,448 ) (13.1 )% (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Selling and marketing $ 716 $ 493 General and administrative 2,607 $ 3,391 Research and development 1,444 $ 1,126 Foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted total operating expenses by approximately $3.1 million in the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2009. Selling and marketing Selling and marketing expenses increased $2.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to higher advertising expenses related to Borderlands , Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City and BioShock 2 . General and administrative General and administrative expenses decreased $9.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to a decrease of $6.8 million in legal fees and settlement costs, reflecting a reduced number of legal and regulatory matters. In addition, the first quarter of 2009 reflects incremental, non-recurring expenses related to contract negotiations. Also, bad debt expense declined $2.1 million as a result of a bad debt incurred in 2009 and lower accounts receivable balances in 2010. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and 2009 also include occupancy expense (primarily rent, utilities and office expenses) of $4.0 million and $3.4 million, respectively, related to our development studios. Research and development Research and development expenses decreased $5.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to higher payroll capitalization rates at our development studios due to a greater number of titles having reached technological feasibility and a decrease in production expenses. Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net was an expense of $4.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to income of $2.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2009. We incurred a foreign exchange loss of $0.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 compared to a foreign exchange gain of $3.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2009. The 28 Table of Contents three months ended January 31, 2010 included $3.9 million of interest expense compared to $1.5 million for the same period in 2009 due to higher average debt and interest rates for the three months ended January 31, 2010. Provision for income taxes. For the three months ended January 31, 2010, income tax expense was $2.5 million, compared to income tax expense of $0.02 million in the first quarter of 2009. The increase in tax expense in 2010 is primarily attributable to taxable earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions and losses in other foreign jurisdictions for which no benefit was provided due to the uncertainty of their realization, while for the same period in 2009, we recorded tax expense related to earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by tax benefits related to the utilization of losses generated in 2009 against taxable income from discontinued operations. We did not record an income tax benefit on our pre-tax losses in the first quarter of 2010 due to uncertainty regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets, and recorded income tax expense on income generated in certain foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate differed from the federal, state and foreign statutory rates primarily due to changes in valuation allowances during the first quarter. In the second quarter of 2010, we paid $10.7 million in settlement of certain income tax audits that we had previously recorded on gross unrecognized tax benefits. This payment will be applied to gross unrecognized tax benefits in the second quarter. The determination as to further adjustments to our gross unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months is not practicable. We are regularly audited by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Audits may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the payment of additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable tax assessments. Discontinued operation. Loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax, reflects the results of our former distribution business for which net assets were sold in February 2010. For the three months ended January 31, 2010, the loss was $0.1 million as compared to net income of $3.5 million for the same period last year. The decrease is mainly due to higher product costs more than offsetting an increase in net revenues to $118.8 million in 2010 from $107.5 in 2009. The increase in product costs was primarily due to mix, as well as write downs of older inventory to net realizable value. Net loss and loss per share. For the three months ended January 31, 2010, our net loss was $33.9 million, compared to a net loss of $50.4 million in the same period of 2009. Net loss per share for the three months ended January 31, 2010 was $0.43 compared to a net loss per share of $0.66 for the three months ended January 31, 2009. Weighted average shares outstanding increased compared to the prior period due to the vesting of restricted stock over the last twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary cash requirements have been to fund (i) the development, manufacturing and marketing of our published products, (ii) working capital, (iii) acquisitions and (iv) capital expenditures. We expect to rely on funds provided by our operating activities, our credit agreement and our Convertible Notes to satisfy our working capital needs. In February 2010, we completed the sale to Synnex of our Jack of all Games third party distribution business, which primarily distributed third party interactive entertainment software, hardware and accessories in North America for approximately $44.25 million, including $37.5 million in cash and up 29 Table of Contents to an additional $6.75 million based on the achievement of certain items. The sale will allow the Company to focus its resources on its publishing operations. The financial results of this business, which were previously reported as our distribution business, have been classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for all of the periods presented. The assets and liabilities of this business are reflected as assets and liabilities held for sale in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. In June 2009, we issued $138.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% convertible senior notes due 2014 ("Convertible Notes"). Interest on the Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 2009. The Convertible Notes mature on June 1, 2014, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased by the Company or converted. The Convertible Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 93.6768 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $10.675 per share of common stock for a total of approximately 12,927,000 underlying conversion shares) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Holders may convert the Convertible Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding December 1, 2013 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after July 31, 2009, if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes for each day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day; (3) if we call the Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the third scheduled trading day prior to the redemption date; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On and after December 1, 2013 until the close of business on the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their Convertible Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the Convertible Notes may be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. At any time on or after June 5, 2012, the Company may redeem all of the outstanding Convertible Notes for cash, but only if the last reported sale of our common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date we provide notice of redemption to holders of the Convertible Notes exceeds 150% of the conversion price in effect on each such trading day. The redemption price will equal 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any) to, but excluding, the redemption date. The indenture governing the Convertible Notes contains customary terms and covenants and events of default. As of January 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes. In July 2007, we entered into a credit agreement which provides for borrowings of up to $140.0 million and is secured by substantially all of our assets and the equity of our subsidiaries (the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement expires on July 3, 2012. Revolving loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our election of (a) 2.00% to 2.50% above a certain base rate with a minimum 6.00% base rate (8.00% at January 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009), or (b) 3.25% to 3.75% above the LIBOR Rate with a minimum 4.00% LIBOR Rate (7.25% at January 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009). We are also required to pay a monthly fee on the unused available balance, ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%. 30 Table of Contents Availability under the Credit Agreement is restricted by our domestic and United Kingdom based accounts receivable and inventory balances. The Credit Agreement also allows for the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $25.0 million. As of January 31, 2010 there were no outstanding borrowings and $131.9 million was available for borrowings. We had $8.1 million of letters of credit outstanding at January 31, 2010. The Credit Agreement substantially limits us and our subsidiaries' ability to: create, incur, assume or be liable for indebtedness; dispose of assets outside the ordinary course of business; acquire, merge or consolidate with or into another person or entity; create, incur or allow any lien on any of their respective properties; make investments; or pay dividends or make distributions (each subject to certain limitations). In addition, the Credit Agreement provides for certain events of default such as nonpayment of principal and interest, breaches of representations and warranties, noncompliance with covenants, acts of insolvency, default on indebtedness held by third parties and default on certain material contracts (subject to certain limitations and cure periods). The Credit Agreement also contains a requirement that we maintain an interest coverage ratio of more than one to one for the trailing twelve month period, if the liquidity of our domestic operations falls below $30.0 million (including available borrowings under the credit facility), based on a 30-day average. As of January 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the Credit Agreement. We are subject to credit risks, particularly if any of our receivables represent a limited number of customers or are concentrated in foreign markets. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our liquidity and working capital position. Generally, we have been able to collect our accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment from customers. We have trade credit insurance on the majority of our customers to mitigate accounts receivable risk. A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to major retailers and distributors. Our five largest customers accounted for 52.1% of net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and 2009. As of January 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009, amounts due from our five largest customers comprised approximately 80.0% and 59.7% of our gross accounts receivable balance, respectively, with our significant customers (those that individually comprised more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance) accounting for 75.9% and 50.3% of such balance at January 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009, respectively. We believe that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not represent a significant credit risk based on past collection experience, although we actively monitor each customer's credit worthiness and economic conditions that may impact our customers' business and access to capital. We are monitoring the current global economic conditions, including credit markets and other factors as it relates to our customers in order to manage the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable. We have entered into various agreements in the ordinary course of business that require substantial cash commitments over the next several years. There were no material agreements requiring known cash commitments entered into during the three months ended January 31, 2010 that were not previously reported in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents and projected cash flow from operations, along with availability under our Credit Agreement will provide us with sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and commitments through at least the next 12 months. 31 Table of Contents Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $3.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2010 as follows: Cash provided by (used for) operating activities $ 4,029 $ (56,809 ) Cash used for investing activities (1,820 ) (2,198 ) Cash provided by financing activities 4 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 1,692 (3,438 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,901 $ (62,441 ) At January 31, 2010 we had $106.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, compared to $102.1 million at October 31, 2009. Our increase in cash and cash equivalents from October 31, 2009 was primarily a result of cash provided by operating activities reflecting the collection of accounts receivable from sales generated from our fourth quarter 2009 releases and during the holiday season. Partially offsetting the collection of our accounts receivable were decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses. In addition, we continued to increase spending on capitalized expenditures for software development costs and licenses. Cash used for investing activities consisted of purchases of computer equipment and software, which did not significantly change for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the prior period. Cash and cash equivalents were positively impacted by $1.7 million in 2010 as a result of foreign currency exchange movements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 31, 2010 and October 31, 2009, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements and are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. International Operations Net revenue earned outside of the United States is principally generated by our operations in Europe, Canada, Australia, and Asia. For the three months ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 32.1% and 47.3%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside of the United States. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results and Seasonality We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result of the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles; sequels or enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies by us 32 Table of Contents and our competitors; the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; and order cancellations and delays in product shipment. Sales of our titles are also seasonal, with generally higher shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters) as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.