Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Business We are a leading developer, publisher and marketer of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. We develop and publish products through our two wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K. Our products are currently designed for console gaming systems such as Sony's PlayStation3 ("PS3") and PlayStation4 ("PS4") and Microsoft's Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360") and Xbox One ("Xbox One") and Nintendo's Wii ("Wii") and Wii U ("Wii U"); handheld gaming systems such as Nintendo's DS ("DS") and Sony's PlayStation Portable ("PSP"); and personal computers, including smartphones and tablets. We deliver our products through physical retail, digital download, online platforms and cloud streaming services. We endeavor to be the most creative, innovative and efficient company in our industry. Our core strategy is to capitalize on the popularity of video games by developing and publishing high-quality interactive entertainment experiences across a range of genres. We focus on building compelling entertainment franchises by publishing a select number of titles for which we can create sequels and incremental revenue opportunities through add-on content, microtransactions and online play. Most of our intellectual property is internally owned and developed, which we believe best positions us financially and competitively. We have established a portfolio of proprietary software content for the major hardware platforms in a wide range of genres, including action, adventure, family/casual, racing, role-playing, shooter, sports and strategy, which we distribute worldwide. We believe that our commitment to creativity and innovation is a distinguishing strength, enabling us to differentiate our products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired or licensed a group of highly recognizable brands to match the broad consumer demographics we serve, ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers. Another cornerstone of our strategy is to support the success of our products in the marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on all platforms and through all channels that are relevant to our target audience. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third-parties for our benefit. Operating margins are dependent in part upon our ability to release new, commercially successful software products and to manage effectively their development costs. We have internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of the Grand Theft Auto , Max Payne , Midnight Club , Red Dead and other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action / adventure product category and create groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing titles as well as developing new brands. Rockstar continues to expand on our established franchises by developing sequels, offering downloadable episodes and content, and releasing titles for smartphones and tablets. Rockstar is also well known for developing brands in other genres, including the L.A. Noire , Bully and Manhunt franchises. We believe that Rockstar has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with its Grand Theft Auto series, which is the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand and has sold-in over 185 million units. The latest installment, Grand Theft Auto V , was released in September 2013. Grand Theft Auto V includes access to Grand Theft Auto Online , which launched in October 2013. Our 2K label has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across all key platforms and across a range of genres including shooter, action, role-playing, strategy, sports and family/casual entertainment. We expect 2K to continue to develop new and successful franchises in the future. 29 Table of Contents 2K's internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling BioShock , Mafia , Sid Meier's Civilization and XCOM series. 2K also publishes highly successful externally developed franchises, such as Borderlands . 2K successfully launched Borderlands 2 in September 2012 and continued to support the title throughout fiscal year 2014 with robust add-on content offerings. In March 2013, 2K released the critically acclaimed BioShock Infinite, which has since been supported with add-on content. In August 2013, 2K released The Bureau: XCOM Declassified. 2K publishes a range of realistic sports simulation titles, including our flagship NBA 2K series, which has been the top-ranked NBA basketball video game for 13 years running and the WWE 2K series. NBA 2K14 was our first title for the Xbox One and PS4. 2K has secured long-term licensing agreements with the National Basketball Association ("NBA"). In addition, in February 2013, 2K entered into an exclusive multi-year agreement with WWE to publish the WWE video game franchise worldwide. Our licenses with Major League Baseball Properties, the Major League Baseball Players Association and Major League Baseball Advanced Media expired in December 2013. 2K also developed and published titles for the casual and family-friendly games market. Internally developed titles include Carnival Games and Let's Cheer! . 2K also had an agreement with Nickelodeon to publish video games based on its top rated Nick Jr. titles such as Dora the Explorer , Go, Diego, Go! , Ni Hao, Kai-lan and The Backyardigans , which expired in December 2013. Throughout fiscal year 2014, 2K released a slate of new titles designed exclusively for smartphones and tablets, including Haunted Hollow, Sid Meier's Ace Patrol for iOS, Beejumbled, Turd Birds, 2K Drive and Sensei Wars . We also have expansion initiatives in the Asia markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and South Korea. 2K has secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of the NBA simulation game in China, Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. In October 2012, NBA 2K Online , our free-to-play NBA simulation game co-developed by 2K and Tencent, launched commercially on the Tencent Games portal in China. In May 2013, Pro Baseball 2K , our online baseball simulation game co-developed by 2K and Nexon Corporation, launched commercially in South Korea. In addition, South Korean-based studio XLGAMES is presently developing Civilization Online , a new online game for the Asian market. Discontinued operations In February 2010, we completed the sale to SYNNEX Corporation ("Synnex") of our Jack of All Games third-party distribution business, which primarily distributed third-party interactive entertainment software, hardware and accessories in North America for approximately $44.0 million, including $37.3 million in cash, subject to purchase price adjustments, and up to an additional $6.7 million, subject to the achievement of certain items, which were not met. In April 2011, we settled on the purchase price adjustments and as a result the purchase price was lowered by $1.5 million. Consequently, the net purchase price after the settlement was $35.8 million. The financial results of this business, which were previously reported as our distribution business, have been classified as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of this business are reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. Trends and Factors Affecting our Business Product Release Schedule. Our financial results are affected by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. Our Grand Theft Auto products in particular have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales of Grand Theft Auto products generated approximately 68.9% of the Company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The timing 30 Table of Contents of our Grand Theft Auto releases varies significantly, which in turn may affect our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis. Economic Environment and Retailer Performance. We continue to monitor economic conditions that may unfavorably affect our businesses, such as deteriorating consumer demand, pricing pressure on our products, credit quality of our receivables, and foreign currency exchange rates. Our business is dependent upon a limited number of customers who account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for 39.4%, 52.5% and 43.9% of net revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of March 31, 2014 and 2013, five customers comprised approximately 68.3% and 57.2% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively, with our significant customers (those that individually comprised more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance) accounting for approximately 59.8% and 30.5% of such balance at March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The economic environment has affected our customers in the past, and may do so in the future. Bankruptcies or consolidations of our large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, due to uncollectible accounts receivables and the concentration of purchasing power among the remaining large retailers. Certain of our large customers sell used copies of our games, which may negatively affect our business by reducing demand for new copies of our games. While the downloadable content that we now offer for certain of our titles may serve to reduce used game sales, we expect used game sales to continue to adversely affect our business. Hardware Platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third-parties, such as Sony's PS3 and PS4, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Xbox One and Nintendo's Wii and Wii U, which comprised approximately 91.4% of the Company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The success of our business is dependent upon the consumer acceptance of these platforms and the continued growth in the installed base of these platforms. When new hardware platforms are introduced, demand for software based on older platforms typically declines, which may negatively affect our business during the market transition to the new consoles. We continually monitor console hardware sales. We manage our product delivery on each current and future platform in a manner we believe to be most effective to maximize our revenue opportunities and achieve the desired return on our investments in product development. Additionally, our development costs are generally higher for titles during platform transition periods, and we have a limited ability to predict the consumer acceptance of the future platforms, which may affect our sales and profitability. Accordingly, our strategy is to focus our development efforts on a select number of the highest quality titles for these platforms, while also expanding our offerings for emerging platforms such as mobile and online games. Online Content and Digital Distribution. The interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content through digital online delivery methods. We provide a variety of online delivered products and offerings. A number of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct digital download through the Internet (from websites we own and others owned by third-parties). We aim to drive recurrent consumer spending, by generating incremental revenues from our titles through downloadable offerings, including add-on content, microtransactions and online play. In addition, we are publishing an expanding variety of titles for tablets and smartphones, which are delivered to consumers through digital download through the Internet. Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, "Segment and Geographic Information," discloses that net revenue from digital online channels comprised approximately 15.8% of the Company's net revenue by distribution channel for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. We expect online delivery of games and game offerings to become an increasing part of our business over the long-term. 31 Table of Contents Product Releases We released the following key titles in fiscal year 2014: Sid Meier's Civilization V: Brave New World 2K Internal PC, Mac July 9, 2013 The Bureau: XCOM Declassified 2K Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC August 20, 2013 Grand Theft Auto V Rockstar Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360 September 17, 2013 Grand Theft Auto Online Rockstar Games Internal PS3, Xbox 360 October 1, 2013 NBA 2K14 2K Internal PS3, Xbox 360, PC October 1, 2013 WWE 2K14 2K External PS3, Xbox 360 October 29, 2013 NBA 2K14 2K Internal PS4 November 15, 2013 NBA 2K14 2K Internal Xbox One November 22, 2013 Product Pipeline We have announced the following key titles to date (this list does not represent all titles currently in development): Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel 2K Both Xbox 360, PS3, PC Fall 2014 Evolve 2K External PS4, Xbox One, PC Fall 2014 Sid Meier's Civilization: Beyond Earth 2K Internal PC, Mac, Linux Fall 2014 NBA 2K15 2K Internal PS4, Xbox One, PS3, Xbox 360, PC October 7, 2014 WWE 2K15 2K Both TBA Fiscal Year 2015 Fiscal 2014 Financial Summary Our fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 net revenue was led by titles from a variety of our top franchises, mainly Grand Theft Auto , followed by NBA, Borderlands , WWE and BioShock . Our net revenue increased to $2,350.6 million, an increase of $1,136.1 million or 93.5% from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, our net income was $361.6 million, as compared to a net loss of $29.5 million in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 was $3.20, as compared to a net loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 of $0.34. The increase in our earnings was primarily driven by an increase of $1,136.1 million in net revenue and a decrease of 19 points in our operating expenses as a percent of net revenue. At March 31, 2014 we had $935.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, compared to $402.5 million at March 31, 2013. The increase in cash and cash equivalents from March 31, 2013 was primarily a result of cash provided by operating activities, due to cash generated from the September 2013 release of Grand Theft Auto V and the collection of accounts receivable balances primarily attributable to the release of Bioshock Infinite near the end of the previous fiscal year. The increase in cash was partially offset by cash used in financing and investing activities, as a result of $276.8 million for the repurchase of common stock (including the Repurchase Transaction), payments of $166.0 million for the extinguishment of the 4.375% Convertible Notes, $55.7 million for the termination of our convertible note warrant transactions and the purchase of fixed assets partially offset by proceeds of $283.2 million from the issuance of $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Notes and $84.4 million from the termination of our convertible note hedge transactions. 32 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are fairly presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates. We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our financial results and they require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The effect and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations is discussed throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Management has reviewed these critical accounting estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue on the sales of software products upon the transfer of title and risk of loss to our customers. Accordingly, we recognize revenue for software titles when there is (1) persuasive evidence that an arrangement with the customer exists, which is generally based on a customer purchase order, (2) the product is delivered, (3) the selling price is fixed or determinable and (4) collection of the customer receivable is deemed probable. Certain products are sold to customers with a street date ( i.e., the earliest date these products may be sold by retailers). For these products we recognize revenue on the later of the street date or the sale date. In addition, some of our software products are sold as full game digital downloads and digital add-on content for which the consumer takes possession of the digital content for a fee. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). In providing credit terms to our customers, our payment arrangements typically provide net 30 and 60 day terms. Advances received for licensing and exclusivity arrangements are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as deferred revenue until we meet our performance obligations, at which point we recognize the revenue. For some of our software products, we enter into multiple element revenue arrangements in which we may provide a combination of full game software, additional add-on content, maintenance or support. When all other recognition criteria are met, for our software and software-related multiple element arrangements, we determine the fair value of each delivered and undelivered element using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") and allocate the total price among the various elements. Absent VSOE for each element, revenue is deferred until the earlier of the point at which VSOE of fair value exists for any undelivered element or until all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. For arrangements which require that revenue recognition is deferred, the cost of goods sold is deferred and recognized as the related net revenue is recognized. Deferred cost of goods sold includes product costs, software development costs and royalties and licenses. However, if the only undelivered element is maintenance and support, the entire arrangement fee is recognized ratably over the performance period. Changes in assumptions or judgments or changes to the elements in a software arrangement could cause a material 33 Table of Contents increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. We determine VSOE for each element based on historical stand-alone sales to third parties. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range. We establish whether our software products contain more-than-inconsequential online functionality by evaluating the significance of the development effort and the nature of the online features, the extent of anticipated marketing focus on the online features, the significance of the online features to the consumers' anticipated overall gameplay experience, and the significance of our post sale obligations to consumers. Determining whether the online functionality for a particular game constitutes more-than-an- inconsequential deliverable is subjective and requires management's judgment. When our software products provide online functionality that has a more-than-inconsequential separate service deliverable, we recognize the software-related revenues and the related cost of sales ratably over the estimated service period of the title (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). When our software products provide limited online functionality at no additional cost to the consumer, we generally consider such features to be incidental to the overall product offering and an inconsequential deliverable. Accordingly, we do not defer revenue related to products containing such online features. Certain of our software products include in-game advertising for third- party products. Advance payments received for in-game advertising are reported on the balance sheet as deferred revenue until we meet our performance obligations, at which point we recognize the revenue, which is generally at the time of the initial release of the product. Revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns, price concessions and other allowances. In circumstances when we do not have a reliable basis to estimate returns and price concessions or are unable to determine that collection of a receivable is probable, we defer the revenue until such time as we can reliably estimate any related returns and allowances and determine that collection of the receivable is probable. Allowances for Returns, Price Concessions and Other Allowances We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements. Following reductions in the price of our products, we grant price concessions to permit customers to take credits against amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. Our customers must satisfy certain conditions to entitle them to return products or receive price concessions, including compliance with applicable payment terms and confirmation of field inventory levels. Generally our distribution arrangements with customers do not give them the right to return titles or to cancel firm orders. However, we occasionally accept returns from our customers for stock balancing and make accommodations to customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific titles falls below expectations. We make estimates of future product returns and price concessions related to current period product revenue. We estimate the amount of future returns and price concessions for published titles based upon, among other factors, historical experience and performance of the titles in similar genres, historical performance of the hardware platform, customer inventory levels, analysis of sell-through rates, sales force and retail customer feedback, industry pricing, market conditions and changes in demand and acceptance of our products by consumers. Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in connection with establishing the allowance for returns and price concessions in any accounting period. We believe we can make reliable estimates of returns and price concessions. However, actual results may differ from initial estimates as a result of changes in circumstances, market conditions and assumptions. Adjustments to estimates are recorded in the period in which they become known. 34 Table of Contents Software Development Costs and Licenses Capitalized software development costs include direct costs incurred for internally developed titles and payments made to third-party software developers under development agreements. We capitalize internal software development costs (including stock-based compensation, specifically identifiable employee payroll expense and incentive compensation costs related to the completion and release of titles), third-party production and other content costs, subsequent to establishing technological feasibility of a software title. Technological feasibility of a product includes the completion of both technical design documentation and game design documentation. Significant management judgments and estimates are utilized in the assessment of when technological feasibility is established. For products where proven technology exists, this may occur early in the development cycle. Technological feasibility is evaluated on a product by product basis. We enter into agreements with third-party developers that require us to make payments for game development and production services. In exchange for these payments, we receive the exclusive publishing and distribution rights to the finished game title as well as, in some cases, the underlying intellectual property rights. Such agreements typically allow us to fully recover these payments to the developers at an agreed upon royalty rate earned on the subsequent retail sales of such software, net of any agreed upon costs. Prior to establishing technological feasibility of a product we record any costs incurred by third- party developers as research and development expenses. Subsequent to establishing technological feasibility of a product we capitalize all development and production service payments to third-party developers as software development costs and licenses. We typically enter into agreements with third-party developers after completing the technical design documentation for our products and therefore record the design costs leading up to a signed development contract as research and development expense. When we contract with third-party developers, we generally select those that have proven technology and experience in the genre of the software being developed, which often allows for the establishment of technological feasibility early in the development cycle. In instances where the documentation of the design and technology are not in place prior to an executed contract, we monitor the software development process and require our third-party developers to adhere to the same technological feasibility standards that apply to our internally developed products. Licenses consist of payments and guarantees made to holders of intellectual property rights for use of their trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights in the development of our products. Agreements with license holders generally provide for guaranteed minimum payments for use of their intellectual property. Guaranteed minimum payments are initially recorded as an asset (licenses) and as a liability (accrued licenses) upon execution of a licensing agreement, provided that no significant performance remains to be completed by the licensor. When significant performance remains to be completed by the licensor, we record payments when actually paid. Certain licenses, especially those related to our sports products, extend over multi-year periods and encompass multiple game titles. In addition to guaranteed minimum payments, these licenses frequently contain provisions that could require us to pay royalties to the license holder based on pre-agreed unit sales thresholds. Amortization of capitalized software development costs and licenses commences when a product is released and is recorded on a title-by-title basis in cost of goods sold. For capitalized software development costs, amortization is calculated using (1) the proportion of current year revenues to the total revenues expected to be recorded over the life of the title or (2) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated useful life of the title, whichever is greater. For capitalized licenses, amortization is calculated as a ratio of (1) current period revenues to the total revenues expected to be recorded over the remaining life of the title or (2) the contractual royalty rate based on actual net product sales as defined in the licensing agreement, whichever is greater. 35 Table of Contents We evaluate the future recoverability of capitalized software development costs and licenses on a quarterly basis. Recoverability is primarily assessed based on the actual title's performance. For products that are scheduled to be released in the future, recoverability is evaluated based on the expected performance of the specific products to which the cost or license relates. We utilize a number of criteria in evaluating expected product performance, including: historical performance of comparable products developed with comparable technology; market performance of comparable titles; orders for the product prior to its release; general market conditions; and, past performance of the franchise. When management determines that the value of the title is unlikely to be recovered by product sales, capitalized costs are charged to cost of goods sold in the period in which such determination is made. We have established profit and unit sales based internal royalty programs that provide for certain of our employees to participate in the success of software titles that they assist in developing. Royalties earned by employees under this program are recorded as a component of cost of goods sold as the related revenues are recognized. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item to fairly present our Consolidated Financial Statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material influence on the conclusion of the appropriate accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset, liability or equity instrument being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively affected. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant influence on the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments: Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand and in the retail channels and record an inventory provision for excess or obsolete inventory based on the future expected demand for our products. Significant changes in demand for our products would affect management's estimates in establishing our inventory provision. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. 36 Table of Contents Business CombinationsGoodwill and Intangible Assets. We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct influence on the amount to recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Often determining the fair value of these assets and liabilities assumed requires an assessment of expected use of the asset, the expected cost to extinguish the liability or our expectations related to the timing and the successful completion of development of an acquired in-process technology. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material influence on our financial statements. We use either the income, cost or market approach to aid in our conclusions of such fair values and asset lives. The income approach presumes that the value of an asset can be estimated by the net economic benefit to be received over the life of the asset, discounted to present value. The cost approach presumes that an investor would pay no more for an asset than its replacement or reproduction cost. The market approach estimates value based on what other participants in the market have paid for reasonably similar assets. Although each valuation approach is considered in valuing the assets acquired, the approach ultimately selected is based on the characteristics of the asset and the availability of information. We evaluate our goodwill annually for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. The determination of whether or not goodwill has become impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions underlying the approach used to determine the value of our reporting units. Changes in our strategy and/or market conditions could significantly affect these judgments and require reductions to recorded intangible asset balances. Long-lived assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount and the asset's residual value, if any. In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available. We use internal discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent appraisals, as appropriate, to determine fair value. We derive the required cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment in estimating expected stock volatility and the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially affected. We have granted stock options to non-employees, which were subject to variable accounting. When variable accounting is applied to stock option grants, we re-measured the fair value of the unvested options at the end of each reporting period or until the options are cancelled or expire unexercised. Compensation expense in any given period was calculated as the difference between total earned compensation at the end of the period, less total earned compensation at the beginning of the period, both of which was based on the price of our common stock at such dates. As a result, fluctuations in the price of our common stock changed compensation expense recognized by us from period to period. We have also granted time and market-based restricted stock awards to employees and non-employees. Time-based and market-based awards to non-employees are subject to variable accounting. For the time-based restricted stock awards to non-employees, we cumulatively remeasure the fair value at the end 37 Table of Contents of every period based on the month end closing price of our common stock. Market-based restricted stock awards vest based on the relative performance of our common stock to a composite index. We calculate the fair value of market-based restricted stock awards using a Monte Carlo Simulation method, which requires a substantial number of inputs and estimates of future market conditions and considers the range of various vesting probabilities. As a result, expense recorded for our non-employee awards can fluctuate substantially from period to period. Income Taxes We record a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred income taxes are recognized for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at currently enacted statutory tax rates for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our history of pre-tax losses in fiscal years prior to the current year represents sufficient evidence for us to determine that the establishment of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset is appropriate. This valuation allowance offsets deferred tax assets associated with future tax deductions as well as carryforward items. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, our filed tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions and record tax benefits when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. At each period end, it is necessary for us to make certain estimates and assumptions to compute the provision for income taxes including allocations of certain transactions to different tax jurisdictions, amounts of permanent and temporary differences, the likelihood of deferred tax assets being recovered and the outcome of contingent tax risks. These estimates and assumptions are revised as new events occur, more experience is acquired and additional information is obtained. The effect of these revisions is recorded in income tax expense or benefit in the period in which they become known. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Reclassification of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income In February 2013, new guidance was issued requiring new disclosures about reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income. This new guidance requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other amounts that are not required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an 38 Table of Contents entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. This new guidance became effective prospectively for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2012 (April 1, 2013 for the Company). Since there were no reclassifications during the year ending March 31, 2014, the adoption of this new guidance did not have an effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Presentation of Unrecognized Tax Benefits In July 2013, new guidance was issued requiring that entities that have an unrecognized tax benefit and a net operating loss carryforward or similar tax loss or tax credit carryforward in the same jurisdiction as the uncertain tax position present the unrecognized tax benefit as a reduction of the deferred tax asset for the loss or tax credit carryforward rather than as a liability when the uncertain tax position would reduce the loss or tax credit carryforward under the tax law. The disclosure requirements will be effective for annual periods (and interim periods within those annual periods) beginning after December 15, 2013 (April 1, 2014 for the Company), and will require prospective application. While early adoption is permitted, we will adopt the guidance beginning April 1, 2014. The adoption is not expected to have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Fluctuations in Operating Results and Seasonality We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results as a result of: the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles, sequels or enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; order cancellations; and delays in product shipment. Sales of our products are also seasonal, with peak shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly and annual comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 39 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of net revenue represented by certain line items in our statements of operations, net revenue by geographic region, net revenue by platform and net revenue by distribution channel: Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 60.2 % 58.9 % 64.0 % Gross profit 39.8 % 41.1 % 36.0 % Selling and marketing 10.2 % 21.2 % 22.3 % General and administrative 6.9 % 12.1 % 14.7 % Research and development 4.5 % 6.4 % 7.8 % Depreciation and amortization 0.6 % 1.0 % 1.4 % Total operating expenses 22.2 % 40.7 % 46.2 % Income (loss) from operations 17.7 % 0.4 % (10.2 )% Interest and other, net (1.4 )% (2.6 )% (2.4 )% Loss on extinguishment of debt (0.4 )% 0.0 % 0.0 % Gain on convertible note hedge and warrants, net 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 16.0 % (2.2 )% (12.6 )% Provision for income taxes 0.6 % 0.4 % 0.4 % Income (loss) from continuing operations 15.4 % (2.6 )% (13.0 )% (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 0.0 % 0.2 % (0.2 )% Net income (loss) 15.4 % (2.4 )% (13.2 )% Net revenue by geographic region: United States 46.5 % 58.5 % 54.4 % International 53.5 % 41.5 % 45.6 % Net revenue by platform: Console 91.4 % 80.4 % 85.1 % PC and other 8.2 % 17.8 % 10.6 % Handheld 0.4 % 1.8 % 4.3 % Net revenue by distribution channel: Physical retail and other 84.2 % 78.9 % 87.1 % Digital online 15.8 % 21.1 % 12.9 % 40 Table of Contents Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Net revenue $ 2,350,568 100.0 % $ 1,214,483 100.0 % $ 1,136,085 93.5 % Internal royalties 538,604 22.9 % 24,724 2.0 % 513,880 2078.5 % Product costs 477,861 20.3 % 316,072 26.0 % 161,789 51.2 % Software development costs and royalties (1) 333,450 14.2 % 317,756 26.2 % 15,694 4.9 % Licenses 64,412 2.8 % 57,285 4.7 % 7,127 12.4 % Cost of goods sold 1,414,327 60.2 % 715,837 58.9 % 698,490 97.6 % Gross profit $ 936,241 39.8 % $ 498,646 41.1 % $ 437,595 87.8 % (1) Includes $30,124 and $10,060 of stock-based compensation expense in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Net revenue increased $1,136.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. This increase is primarily due to an increase of approximately $1,481.5 million in sales from our Grand Theft Auto franchise, primarily related to the releases of Grand Theft Auto V, and higher sales of $139.5 million mainly driven by the October 2013 release of WWE 2K14 and higher sales of our NBA 2K franchise. These increases were partially offset by a $446.0 million decrease in net sales primarily due to prior year releases of Borderlands 2, Max Payne 3, BioShock Infinite, XCOM: Enemy Unknown and Spec Ops: The Line . Net revenue on consoles increased to 91.4% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to 80.4% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the current year release of Grand Theft Auto V on the Xbox 360 and PS3 console gaming systems. PC and other sales decreased to $192.4 million or 8.2% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to $216.3 million or 17.8% for the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to the prior year PC release of Borderlands 2 . Handheld sales decreased to $9.7 million or 0.4% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to $22.2 million or 1.8% for the prior year primarily due to the prior year releases of various Nick Jr. titles. Net revenue from physical retail and other channels increased to 84.2% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to 78.9% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the current year release of Grand Theft Auto V on the Xbox 360 and PS3 console gaming systems. Net revenue from digital online channels of $372.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 increased $115.8 million, or 45.2%, as compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was mainly driven by digital offerings from our Grand Theft Auto and NBA 2K franchises as well as Bioshock Infinite . Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue was 39.8% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, a decreased of 1.3 percentage points as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher internal royalties mainly due to higher income generated from our Grand Theft Auto franchise, partially offset by (i) lower product costs in the current year as a percentage of net revenue as a result of a greater share of net revenue in the current year being generated from a product mix with higher average selling price points and (ii) lower software development costs and royalties as a percentage of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to the prior year release of Borderlands 2 , which was externally developed. Net revenue earned outside of the United States accounted for 53.5% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to 41.5% in the prior year. The year-over-year percentage increase was primarily due to the global release of Grand Theft Auto V , which generated higher sales outside the United States during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Foreign currency exchange rates 41 Table of Contents decreased net revenue and decreased gross profit by $5.7 million and $2.3 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing $ 240,996 10.2 % $ 257,329 21.2 % $ (16,333 ) (6.3 )% General and administrative 161,374 6.9 % 147,260 12.1 % 14,114 9.6 % Research and development 105,256 4.5 % 78,184 6.4 % 27,072 34.6 % Depreciation and amortization 13,359 0.6 % 10,634 1.0 % 2,725 25.6 % Total operating expenses (1) $ 520,985 22.2 % $ 493,407 40.7 % $ 27,578 5.6 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense, as follows: Selling and marketing $10,136 $ 5,562 General and administrative $28,991 $17,824 Research and development $ 8,867 $ 2,319 Foreign currency exchange rates increased total operating expenses by approximately $0.4 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the prior year. Selling and marketing Selling and marketing expenses decreased $16.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in advertising expenses of $31.5 million. In the prior year, advertising expenses had increased due to the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, Max Payne 3 in May 2012 and BioShock Infinite in March 2013 as compared to expenses incurred for the September 2013 release of Grand Theft Auto V. This net decrease was partially offset by a $14.0 million increase primarily due to higher personnel costs related to stock-based compensation expense and headcount, and higher third-party commissions. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased $14.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase of $12.1 million in personnel costs primarily due to higher headcount and higher severance costs related to current year restructuring activities, $11.2 million of higher stock-based compensation expense primarily for previously granted stock-based awards to ZelnickMedia and $5.3 million of higher legal fees and IT-related costs, partially offset by the absence of a $15.0 million contractual provision that was triggered in June 2012. General and administrative expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 include occupancy expense (primarily rent, utilities and office expenses) of $16.4 million and $15.9 million, respectively, related to our development studios. Research and development Research and development expenses increased $27.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase of $20.9 million in personnel costs due mainly to higher stock-based compensation related to the current year issuance of restricted stock awards to certain employees and lower capitalization rates at our development studios due mainly to resources being transitioned to new projects following the September 2013 release of Grand Theft Auto V and an increase of $6.6 million in production expenses primarily due to work on titles that have not reached technological feasibility. 42 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $2.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to the prior year primarily due to higher purchases of fixed assets during recent years. Interest and other, net Interest expense, net $ (33,961 ) (1.4 )% $ (30,763 ) (2.5 )% $ (3,198 ) 10.4 % Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 209 0.0 % (778 ) (0.1 )% 987 (126.9 )% Other 199 0.0 % 190 0.0 % 9 4.7 % Interest and other, net $ (33,553 ) (1.4 )% $ (31,351 ) (2.6 )% $ (2,202 ) 7.0 % Interest and other, net was an expense of $33.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to an expense of $31.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The increase of $2.2 million in interest and other, net was primarily related to an increase in our long-term debt associated with our June 2013 issuance of $287.5 million of 1.00% Convertible Notes partially offset by the August 29, 2013 redemption of our 4.375% Convertible Notes which had an aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million. Loss on extinguishment of debt Loss on extinguishment of debt was $9.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 due to the conversion and redemption of our 4.375% Convertible Notes. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding loss on extinguishment of debt. Gain on convertible note hedge and warrants, net Gain on convertible note hedge and warrants, net was $3.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 due to the increase in the Company's share price during the period from June 2013 to the net settlement of the hedge and warrants in August 2013. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding settlement and related net gain on the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions. Provision for income taxes Income tax expense was $14.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as compared to $5.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The increase in tax expense was primarily attributable to an increase in pre-tax income from operations in excess of remaining net operating losses available in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to changes in valuation allowances during the period. Our valuation allowances decreased by $92.1 million and $1.3 million during fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, due to the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards from prior years against income earned during each year. As of March 31, 2014, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, of $24.9 million, of which $24.9 million would affect our effective tax rate if realized. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, gross unrecognized tax benefits increased by $3.2 million. We are generally no longer subject to audit for U.S. federal income tax returns for periods prior to our fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 and state income tax returns for periods prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2007. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. U.S. federal taxing authorities have completed their audit through the fiscal years ended October 31, 2009. Certain U.S. state taxing authorities are currently examining our income tax returns from fiscal years ended October 31, 2007 through October 31, 2010. The determination 43 Table of Contents as to further adjustments to our gross unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months is not practicable. We are regularly audited by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Audits may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the payment of additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable tax assessments. Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, reflects the results of our former distribution business which was sold in February 2010. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, there was an immaterial net loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes, compared to net income of $1.7 million for the prior year. The net income during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to the maturity of a remaining contract and changes in estimates of sublease income as a result of the Company entering into a new sublease. Net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, our net income was $361.6 million, as compared to a net loss of $29.5 million in the prior year. Earnings per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 were $3.79 for basic and $3.20 for diluted earnings per share as compared to a loss per share of $0.34 for basic and diluted earnings for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding were lower compared to the prior year period primarily due to the shares repurchased during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 partially offset by the vesting of restricted stock awards over the last twelve months and the issuance of shares upon the conversion of 4.375% Convertible Notes. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding earnings (loss) per share. Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 Net revenue $ 1,214,483 100.0 % $ 825,823 100.0 % $ 388,660 47.1 % Software development costs and royalties (1) 317,756 26.2 % 164,487 19.9 % 153,269 93.2 % Product costs 316,072 26.0 % 255,236 30.9 % 60,836 23.8 % Licenses 57,285 4.7 % 74,976 9.1 % (17,691 ) (23.6 )% Internal royalties 24,724 2.0 % 34,156 4.1 % (9,432 ) (27.6 )% Cost of goods sold 715,837 58.9 % 528,855 64.0 % 186,982 35.4 % Gross profit $ 498,646 41.1 % $ 296,968 36.0 % $ 201,678 67.9 % (1) Includes $10,060 and $5,144 of stock-based compensation expense in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net revenue increased $388.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven primarily by $681.2 million in net revenue from the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, BioShock Infinite in March 2013, Max Payne 3 in May 2012, XCOM: Enemy Unknown in October 2012 and SpecOps: The Line in June 2012, as well as higher sales of our NBA 2K franchise and approximately $23.4 million in higher sales of our Grand Theft Auto franchise. These increases were partially offset by $267.6 million in lower sales of L.A. Noire , which released in May 2011, Duke Nukem Forever , which released in June 2011 and The Darkness II , which released in February 2012. Net revenue on consoles decreased to 80.4% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 85.1% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue on PC and other platforms. PC and other sales increased to 17.8% of our total net 44 Table of Contents revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 10.6% for the prior year primarily due to an increase in net revenue resulting from the September 2012 PC release of Borderlands 2, the March 2013 PC release of BioShock Infinite, the October 2012 PC release of XCOM: Enemy Unknown and the June 2012 PC releases of Max Payne 3 and Sid Meier's Civilization V: Gods & Kings , partially offset by the decrease in net revenue from the June 2011 PC release of Duke Nukem Forever . Handheld sales accounted for 1.8% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 4.3% for the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue on PC and other platforms. Net revenue from physical retail and other channels decreased to 78.9% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 87.1% for the same period in the prior year primarily due to the increased proportion of total net revenue from digital online channels. Net revenue from digital online channels increased to 21.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to 12.9% for the prior year primarily due to the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, XCOM: Enemy Unknown in October 2012 and BioShock Infinite in March 2013, as well as higher sales of our NBA 2K and Grand Theft Auto franchises. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue increased for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to lower product costs as a percentage of net revenue primarily associated with improved pricing mix and a greater proportion of net revenue from digital online channels, lower license expense primarily associated with the renegotiated licenses for Major League Baseball 2K13 as well as lower internal royalty expense, which was primarily due to higher income generated in the prior year from the May 2011 release of L.A. Noire . Partially offsetting the increase in gross profit was higher software development costs and royalties primarily associated with the September 2012 release of Borderlands 2 and the May 2012 release of Max Payne 3 . Net revenue earned outside of the United States accounted for 41.5% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to 45.6% in the prior year. The year-over-year decrease as a percentage of net revenue earned outside of the United States was primarily due to the September 2012 global release of Borderlands 2 , which had proportionally higher net revenue in the United States. Foreign currency exchange rates decreased net revenue and gross profit by approximately $11.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. Operating Expenses Selling and marketing $ 257,329 21.2 % $ 183,749 22.3 % $ 73,580 40.0 % General and administrative 147,260 12.1 % 121,200 14.7 % 26,060 21.5 % Research and development 78,184 6.4 % 64,162 7.8 % 14,022 21.9 % Depreciation and amortization 10,634 1.0 % 12,123 1.4 % (1,489 ) (12.3 )% Total operating expenses (1) $ 493,407 40.7 % $ 381,234 46.2 % $ 112,173 29.4 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense, as follows: Selling and marketing $ 5,562 $ 5,042 General and administrative $17,824 $19,963 Research and development $ 2,319 $ 3,345 Foreign currency exchange rates decreased total operating expenses by approximately $4.3 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. 45 Table of Contents Selling and marketing Selling and marketing expenses increased $73.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $62.2 million increase in advertising expenses primarily incurred for the releases of Borderlands 2 in September 2012, BioShock Infinite in March 2013, Max Payne 3 in May 2012, Spec Ops: The Line in June 2012 and XCOM: Enemy Unknown in October 2012, as compared to advertising expenses incurred in the prior year for the releases of L.A. Noire in May 2011 and Duke Nukem Forever in June 2011. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased $26.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $15.0 million contractual provision that was triggered in June 2012 and an increase of $8.0 million for personnel costs primarily due to higher performance-based incentive compensation as a result of the Company's performance. General and administrative expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 include occupancy expense (primarily rent, utilities and office expenses) of $15.9 million and $15.7 million, respectively, related to our development studios. Research and development Research and development expenses increased $14.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year primarily due to an $11.3 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily due to increased headcount and higher performance-based incentive compensation as a result of the Company's performance. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $1.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the prior year primarily due to lower purchases of fixed assets during recent years. Interest and other, net Interest (expense) income, net (30,763 ) (2.5 )% $ (20,616 ) (2.5 )% $ (10,147 ) 49.2 % Gain on sale 0.0 % 2,200 0.3 % (2,200 ) (100.0 )% Foreign exchange loss (778 ) (0.1 )% (1,311 ) (0.2 )% 533 (40.7 )% Other 190 0.0 % 156 0.0 % 34 21.8 % Interest and other, net $ (31,351 ) (2.6 )% $ (19,571 ) (2.4 )% $ (11,780 ) 60.2 % Interest and other, net was an expense of $31.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to an expense of $19.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, primarily due to $9.4 million in higher interest expense associated with the November 2011 issuance of the 1.75% Convertible Notes and the $2.2 million gain we recorded on the sale of certain intellectual property assets during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Provision for income taxes Income tax expense was $5.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, as compared to $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The increase in tax expense was primarily attributable to discrete tax benefits during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, partially offset by a reduction in uncertain tax positions during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to changes in valuation allowances and reductions in gross unrecognized tax 46 Table of Contents benefits during the periods. Our valuation allowances decreased by $1.3 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to the application of prior years' net operating losses against domestic income earned during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, while our valuation allowance increased by $19.5 million during the same period in the prior year primarily due to a loss before income taxes without tax benefit in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2013, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, of $21.7 million, of which $14.3 million would affect our effective tax rate if realized. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, gross unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $0.7 million, which was comprised primarily of a decrease of $4.6 million related to the resolution of certain foreign tax audits for fiscal years through March 31, 2011, offset by an increase of $3.6 million related to federal domestic issues. We are generally no longer subject to audit for U.S. federal income tax returns for periods prior to our fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 and state income tax returns for periods prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2004. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal year ended October 31, 2010. U.S. federal taxing authorities have completed their audit through the fiscal years ended October 31, 2009. Certain U.S. state taxing authorities are currently examining our income tax returns from fiscal years ended October 31, 2004 through October 31, 2009. The determination as to further adjustments to our gross unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months is not practicable. We are regularly audited by domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Audits may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the payment of additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable tax assessments. Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, reflects the results of our former distribution business which was sold in February 2010. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $1.7 million as compared to a loss of $1.1 million for the prior year. The net income during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to the maturity of a remaining contract and changes in estimates of sublease income as a result of the Company entering into a new sublease. The net loss during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was primarily due to changes in estimates of sublease income primarily as a result of deteriorating market conditions. Net loss and loss per share For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, our net loss was $29.5 million, as compared to a net loss of $108.8 million in the prior year. Net loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was $0.34, as compared to a net loss per share of $1.31 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding increased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the vesting of restricted stock awards over the last twelve months. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding net loss per share. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary cash requirements have been to fund (i) the development, manufacturing and marketing of our published products, (ii) working capital, (iii) acquisitions and (iv) capital expenditures. We expect to rely on funds provided by our operating activities, our Credit Agreement and our Convertible Notes to satisfy our working capital needs. Credit Agreement In October 2011, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") which amended and restated our July 2007 Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement 47 Table of Contents provides for borrowings of up to $100.0 million, which may be increased by up to $40.0 million pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, and is secured by substantially all of our assets and the equity of our subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement expires on October 17, 2016. Revolving loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our election of (a) 1.50% to 2.00% above a certain base rate (4.75% at March 31, 2014), or (b) 2.50% to 3.00% above the LIBOR Rate (approximately 2.65% at March 31, 2014), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. We are also required to pay a monthly fee on the unused available balance, ranging from 0.375% to 0.50% based on availability. Availability under the Credit Agreement is restricted by our United States and United Kingdom based accounts receivable and inventory balances. The Credit Agreement also allows for the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2014, there was $63.6 million available to borrow under the Credit Agreement. At March 31, 2014, we had no outstanding borrowings related to the Credit Agreement and $1.7 million of letters of credit outstanding. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that substantially limit us and our subsidiaries' ability to: create, incur, assume or be liable for indebtedness; dispose of assets outside the ordinary course of business; acquire, merge or consolidate with or into another person or entity; create, incur or allow any lien on any of their respective properties; make investments; or pay dividends or make distributions (each subject to certain limitations); or optionally prepay any indebtedness (subject to certain exceptions, including an exception permitting the redemption of the Company's Convertible Notes upon the meeting of certain minimum liquidity requirements). In addition, the Credit Agreement provides for certain events of default such as nonpayment of principal and interest, breaches of representations and warranties, noncompliance with covenants, acts of insolvency, default on indebtedness held by third-parties and default on certain material contracts (subject to certain limitations and cure periods). The Credit Agreement also contains a requirement that we maintain an interest coverage ratio of more than one to one for the trailing twelve month period, if certain average liquidity levels fall below $30.0 million. As of March 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the Credit Agreement. 4.375% Convertible Notes Due 2014 In June 2009, we issued $138.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Convertible Notes due 2014 (the "4.375% Convertible Notes"). The issuance of the 4.375% Convertible Notes included $18.0 million related to the exercise of an over-allotment option by the underwriters. Interest on the 4.375% Convertible Notes was paid semi-annually in arrears on June 1st and December 1st of each year, and commenced on December 1, 2009. The 4.375% Convertible Notes were scheduled to mature on June 1, 2014, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased by the Company or converted. As further described below, on June 12, 2013, we issued a notice of redemption calling all of our outstanding 4.375% Convertible Notes for redemption on August 29, 2013. The 4.375% Convertible Notes were convertible at an initial conversion rate of 93.6768 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 4.375% Convertible Notes (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $10.675 per share of common stock for a total of approximately 12,927,000 underlying conversion shares) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Holders could have converted the 4.375% Convertible Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding December 1, 2013 only if certain conditions were met. Upon conversion, the 4.375% Convertible Notes could have been settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock. At any time on or after June 5, 2012, the Company could have redeemed all of the outstanding 4.375% Convertible Notes for cash, but only if the last reported sale of our common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date we provided notice of redemption to holders of the 4.375% Convertible Notes exceeded 150% of the conversion price 48 Table of Contents in effect on each such trading day. This condition was met on June 12, 2013. The redemption price equaled 100% of the principal amount of the 4.375% Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any) to, but excluding, the redemption date. On June 12, 2013, we issued a notice of redemption calling all of our outstanding 4.375% Convertible Notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $138.0 million, for redemption on August 29, 2013 at a redemption price of $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the redemption date (the period from June 12, 2013 to August 29, 2013 is the "Notice Period"). Holders who elected to convert during the Notice Period were entitled to make-whole shares in addition to such shares they would otherwise be entitled to receive upon conversion. The notice of redemption specified that we would settle any 4.375% Convertible Notes surrendered for conversion in connection with the redemption on a combination settlement basis by paying cash up to a cash amount equal to $166.0 million in the aggregate of converted notes and delivering shares of our common stock in respect of the amount, if any, by which our conversion obligation exceeded such cash amount. During the Notice Period, $138.0 million of 4.375% Convertible Notes were converted for $166.0 million in cash and 3,217,000 shares of our common stock. On August 29, 2013, we paid $7,000 in cash and we redeemed $7,000 of 4.375% Convertible Notes. During the fiscal year end March 31, 2014, we recorded a loss on extinguishment, net of capitalized debt issuance costs, totaling $9.0 million related to these transactions. On June 12, 2013, the Company entered into Unwind Agreements with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions and Unwind Agreements with respect to the warrant transactions with each of the hedge counterparties (collectively, the "Unwind Agreements"). Pursuant to the terms of the Unwind Agreements, and in connection with the Company's issuance of a notice of redemption for all the 4.375% Convertible Notes, the Company had the right to deliver a notice to the hedge counterparties, prior to the redemption date set forth in such redemption notice, designating an early termination date for the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. The hedge counterparties owed a cash payment to the Company as a result of the early termination of the convertible note hedge transactions that was calculated based on its current fair market value. The Company owed a cash payment to the warrant holders, as applicable, as a result of the early termination of the warrant transactions that was calculated based on its current fair market value. As a result of the Unwind Agreements, the convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions were accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair values of these transactions were reported as a convertible note hedge receivable and as a convertible note warrant liability with an offsetting impact to additional paid-in capital. Gains and losses on the derivatives resulting from their unwinding were reported in gain on convertible note hedge and warrants, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In August 2013, the payment received from unwinding the associated convertible note hedge transactions resulted in proceeds to us of approximately $84.4 million, offset by $55.7 million we paid the warrant holders. During the fiscal year end March 31, 2014, we recorded a gain of approximately $17.3 million resulting from the unwinding of our convertible note hedge transactions and a loss of approximately $13.8 million resulting from unwinding of the convertible note warrant liability to gain on convertible note hedge and warrants, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 1.75% Convertible Notes Due 2016 On November 16, 2011, we issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Notes due 2016 (the "1.75% Convertible Notes"). Interest on the 1.75% Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 st and December 1 st of each year, commencing on June 1, 2012. The 1.75% Convertible Notes mature on December 1, 2016, unless earlier repurchased by the Company or converted. The Company does not have the right to redeem the 1.75% Convertible Notes prior to maturity. 49 Table of Contents The 1.75% Convertible Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 52.3745 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Notes (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $19.093 per share of common stock for a total of approximately 13,094,000 underlying conversion shares) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Holders may convert the 1.75% Convertible Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2016 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after March 31, 2012, if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Notes for each day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On and after June 1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their 1.75% Convertible Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 1.75% Convertible Notes may be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock. The indenture governing the 1.75% Convertible Notes contains customary terms and covenants and events of default. As of March 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the indenture governing the 1.75% Convertible Notes. 1.00% Convertible Notes Due 2018 On June 18, 2013, we issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Notes due 2018 (the "1.00% Convertible Notes" and together with the 4.375% Convertible Notes and the 1.75% Convertible Notes, the "Convertible Notes"). The 1.00% Convertible Notes were issued at 98.5% of par value for proceeds of $246.3 million. Interest on the 1.00% Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on July 1st and January 1st of each year, commencing on January 1, 2014. The 1.00% Convertible Notes mature on July 1, 2018, unless earlier repurchased by the Company or converted. The Company does not have the right to redeem the 1.00% Convertible Notes prior to maturity. The Company also granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $37.5 million principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Notes to cover overallotments, if any. On July 17, 2013, the Company closed its public offering of $37.5 million principal amount of the Company's 1.00% Convertible Notes as a result of the underwriters exercising their overallotment option in full on July 12, 2013, bringing the proceeds to $283.2 million. The 1.00% Convertible Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 46.4727 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Notes (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $21.52 per share of common stock for a total of approximately 13,361,000 underlying conversion shares) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Holders may convert the 1.00% Convertible Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding January 1, 2018 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after September 30, 2013, if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Notes for each day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On and after January 1, 2018 until the close of business on the 50 Table of Contents business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their 1.00% Convertible Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 1.00% Convertible Notes may be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock. The indenture governing the 1.00% Convertible Notes contains customary terms and covenants and events of default. As of the fiscal year end March 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements outlined in the indenture governing the 1.00% Convertible Notes. Financial Condition We are subject to credit risks, particularly if any of our receivables represent a limited number of customers or are concentrated in foreign markets. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our liquidity and working capital position. Generally, we have been able to collect our accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment from customers. We have trade credit insurance on the majority of our customers to mitigate accounts receivable risk. A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to major retailers and distributors. Our five largest customers accounted for 39.4%, 52.5%, and 43.9% of net revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of March 31, 2014 and 2013, five customers accounted for 68.3% and 57.2% of our gross accounts receivable, respectively. Customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable balance comprised 59.8% and 30.5% of such balances at March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Based upon performing ongoing credit evaluations, maintaining trade credit insurance on a majority of our customers and our past collection experience, we believe that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not represent a significant credit risk, although we actively monitor each customer's credit worthiness and economic conditions that may affect our customers' business and access to capital. We are monitoring the current global economic conditions, including credit markets and other factors as it relates to our customers in order to manage the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents and projected cash flow from operations, along with availability under our Credit Agreement will provide us with sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and commitments through at least the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2014, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was approximately $212.9 million. These balances are dispersed across various locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the business and liquidity needs of our foreign affiliates. In addition, the Company expects in the foreseeable future to have the ability to generate sufficient cash domestically to support ongoing operations. Consequently, it is the Company's intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. In the event the Company needed to repatriate funds outside of the U.S., such repatriation may be subject to local laws and tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes or U.S. income taxes. It is not practicable to estimate the tax liability and the Company would try to minimize the tax effect to the extent possible. However, any repatriation may not result in significant cash payments as the taxable event would likely be offset by the utilization of the then available tax credits. In January 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 7,500,000 shares of our common stock. The authorization permits the Company to purchase shares from time to time through a variety of methods, including in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws. It does not obligate the Company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. Repurchases are subject to the availability of stock, prevailing market conditions, 51 Table of Contents the trading price of the stock, the Company's financial performance and other conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. During the fiscal year end March 31, 2014, the Company repurchased approximately 4,217,000 shares of our common stock in the open market for approximately $73.3 million, including commissions of approximately $0.04 million, as part of the program. As of March 31, 2014, up to approximately 3,283,000 shares of our common stock remain available for repurchase under the Company's share repurchase authorization. In November 2013, the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement with High River Limited Partnership, Icahn Partners LP, Icahn Partners Master Fund LP, Icahn Partners Master Fund II LP and Icahn Partners Master Fund III LP (collectively, the "Icahn Group"), pursuant to which the Company repurchased approximately 12,021,000 shares of the Company's common stock owned by the Icahn Group, at a price per share of $16.93, resulting in an aggregate purchase price of approximately $203.5 million (the "Repurchase Transaction"). The closing of the Repurchase Transaction occurred on November 26, 2013. The Repurchase Transaction was conducted outside the Company's share repurchase program described above. Our changes in cash flows were as follows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 700,262 $ (4,567 ) $ (84,964 ) Net cash used in investing activities (30,813 ) (16,820 ) (14,162 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (133,684 ) 243,364 Effects of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2,867 ) 3,610 (4,318 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 532,898 $ (17,777 ) $ 139,920 At March 31, 2014 we had $935.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, compared to $402.5 million at March 31, 2013. The increase in cash and cash equivalents from March 31, 2013 was primarily a result of cash provided by operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to cash generated from the September 2013 release of Grand Theft Auto V and the collection of accounts receivable balances primarily attributable to the release of Bioshock Infinite near the end of the previous fiscal year. The increase in cash was partially offset by cash used in financing and investing activities. Net cash used by financing and investing activities related to $276.8 million for the repurchase of common stock, payments of $166.0 million for the extinguishment of the 4.375% Convertible Notes, $55.7 million for the termination of our convertible note warrant transactions and the purchase of fixed assets partially offset by proceeds of $283.2 million from the issuance of $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of 1.00% Convertible Notes and $84.4 million from the termination of our convertible note hedge transactions. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have entered into various agreements in the ordinary course of business that require substantial cash commitments over the next several years. Generally, these include: Agreements to acquire licenses to intellectual property such as trademarks, copyrights and technology for use in the publishing, marketing and distribution of our software titles. In addition, we have certain minimum marketing support commitments where we commit to spend specified amounts related to marketing our products. Our licensing and marketing commitments primarily reflect agreements with major sports leagues and players' associations and expire at various times through September 2018; 52 Table of Contents Contractual payments to third-party software developers that expire at various times through September 2017. Guaranteed minimum payments assume satisfactory performance; Operating leases, primarily related to occupancy, furniture and equipment, expiring at various times through fiscal year 2025. Included in the cash commitments for operating leases below is a liability for a lease assumption without economic benefit, which was approximately $0.6 million at March 31, 2014, and is recorded in liabilities of discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations; and Purchase obligations primarily related to agreements to purchase services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company that specifies all significant terms, including fixed, minimum or variable pricing provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions, expiring at various times through August 2016. A summary of annual minimum contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2014 is as follows (in thousands of dollars): 2015 $ 36,830 $ 82,113 $ 22,180 $ 9,890 $ 8,688 $ $ 159,701 2016 20,096 12,210 18,723 4,238 7,250 62,517 2017 38,632 9,345 16,315 639 7,250 250,000 322,181 2018 14,632 14,440 2,875 31,947 2019 11,920 15,119 1,438 287,500 315,977 Thereafter 43,986 43,986 Total $ 122,110 $ 103,668 $ 130,763 $ 14,767 $ 27,501 $ 537,500 $ 936,309 In addition to the cash commitments above, we have also entered into acquisition agreements that contain provisions for us to pay contingent cash consideration, typically contingent on the acquired company achieving certain financial, unit sales, or performance conditions. The amount and timing of these payments are currently not fixed or determinable. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of our potential acquisition commitments. Income Taxes. At March 31, 2014, the Company had recorded a liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits of $24.9 million for which we are unable to make a reasonable and reliable estimate of the period in which these liabilities will be settled with the respective tax authorities, therefore, these liabilities have not been included in the contractual obligations table. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2014 and 2013, we did not have any material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. International Operations Net revenue earned outside of the United States is principally generated by our operations in Europe, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately 53.5%, 41.5% and 45.6%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the United States. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant effect on our operating results. 53 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results and Seasonality We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result of the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles; sequels or enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; and order cancellations and delays in product shipment. Sales of our titles are also seasonal, with peak shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 54 Table of Contents