Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Description of Business, are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Issuer Direct Corporation, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. In our capacity as Company management, we may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements with respect to our long-term objectives or expectations which may be included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), reports to stockholders and information provided in our web site. The words or phrases will likely, are expected to, is anticipated, is predicted, forecast, estimate, project, plans to continue, believes, or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We are calling to your attention important factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed with respect to future periods in any current statements. The following list of important factors may not be all-inclusive, and we specifically decline to undertake an obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. Among the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve expected operating results and growth plan goals and/or affect the market price of our stock are: Dependence on key personnel. Fluctuation in quarterly operating results and seasonality in certain of our markets. Our ability to raise capital to fund our operations. Our ability to successfully integrate and operate acquired or newly formed entities, ventures and or subsidiaries. Changes in laws and regulations that affect our operations. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Financial Data in XBRL, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, in the corporate section of our website at www.italkmobility.com The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Company Overview iTalk, Inc. (iTalk, Inc and its business are hereinafter collectively referred to as iTalk, the Company, We or Our unless otherwise noted). We are a Nevada corporation formed in October 1988 under the name SOPAC Cellular Solutions, Inc. In May 2012, we changed our name to iTalk, Inc. Our executive offices are located at 2400 W Cypress Creek Road, Suite 111, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33309. Business The Company designs and develops retail voice and data communications services and integrates these services with wireless hardware devices to create new and more cost effective and productive communication solutions. The Companys services are primarily marketed through the Internet under several proprietary domain names. We market our services both domestically and internationally. Through an established network of carriers, we offer international termination in over 30 countries. Customers purchase digital long distance minutes in advance (prepaid) bundled in various packaged service offerings. On May 2, 2013, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with AA Enterprises pursuant to which the Company acquired substantially all the assets of AA Enterprises, including, but not limited to, all intellectual property rights relating to RocketVoIP. On June 6, 2013 the Company acquired ITG, Inc. ("ITG"), a Texas corporation in an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to purchase substantially all of the assets of ITG, including, but not limited to, all intellection property rights relating to ITG, EasyTalk and Valucom (the "Acquired Assets). We continue to focus on both the organic growth of our revenue streams as well as evaluating potential acquisitions that would complement our core business operations and accelerate our overall mission of providing new and innovative communications services to consumers. Revenue Sources The Companys core businesses receive sales revenues through credit card charges for prepaid communications services processed and paid by American Express ,VISA and GlobalPay. The Companys services are delivered over the Internet and terminated though third party carriers. Proprietary Network Access Control System Our proprietary Operations Support Softare (iTalk OSS) system platform enables the Company to process customer voice and data communications and control access to its communication network. The iTalk OSS is fully integrated with the Companys Internet-based domain sites to provide instant access to subscribing customers. The iTalk OSS monitors the utilization of the Companys communications network, controls customer utilization and tracks third party termination services. Domain Assets The Company owns an array of Internet domains. These domains enable the Company to reach multiple target markets. Each domain is targeted to a specific demographic with unique communications needs. Each domain funnels service purchases to our centralized iTalk OSS. The Companys domain assets are comprised of the following 57 domains: EASYTALKCUBA.COM EASYTALKMEXICO.COM ISPEAKMOBILITY.COM ITALKMOBILITY.CO ITALKMOBILITY.COM ITALKMOBILITY.NET ITALKMOBILITY.ORG ITALKPHONE.COM ITALKPHONE.NET MYDATAHOTSPOT.COM 4 MY800ONLINE.COM MYWQN.COM PHONEHOUSEINDIA.NET PHONEHOUSEINDIA.ORG PHONEHOUSEUS.NET PHONEHOUSEUS.ORG PHONEHOUSEUSA.NET PHONEHOUSEUSA.ORG ROCKET800.COM ROCKET800.NET ROCKET800.ORG ROCKETMOBILE.NET ROCKETMOBILE.ORG ROCKETVOIP.NET ROCKETVOIP.ORG TEXTWQN.COM THEWQN.COM VALUCOMONLINE.COM VALUCOMONLINE.NET VALUCOMONLINE.ORG VALUCOMPREPAID.COM VALUCOMPREPAID.NET VALUCOMPREPAID.ORG VALUECOMONLINE.COM VALUECOMONLINE.NET VALUECOMONLINE.ORG VALUMAXONLINE.NET VALUMAXONLINE.ORG VCDIRECTINDIA.NET VCDIRECTINDIA.ORG WQN.COM WQNDIRECT.COM WQNDIRECT.NET WQNGLOBALPHONE.NET WQNGLOBALPHONE.ORG WQNLIVE.COM WQNPLUS.COM WQNPOINTS.COM WQNPOINTS.NET WQNPOS.COM WQNPOS.NET WQNPOS.ORG WQNVOIP.COM WQNVOIP.NET WQNVOIP.ORG WQNWIRELESS.COM WQNWIRELESS.NET WQNWIRELESS.ORG Regulation Communications services industries are generally subject to regulation in the United States and elsewhere. Regulatory policies in the United States are administered by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). iTalks services are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC). The FCCs regulations distinguish between dominant and non-dominant providers of services. The Company is considered a non-dominant provider of services. As such, we are subject to minimal regulation and oversight. 5 Our Strategy Our strategy incorporates a blend of organic growth and complementary acquisitions. As the market continues to intensify for the solutions we offer, it is evident that customers are seeking a single sourced, lower cost, less complex way of calling, texting and accessing the Web. It is iTalks strategy to be the low cost provider in its market segments. MOBILE BROADBAND The Company is launching secure nationwide mobile broadband wireless data transmission services primarily under the iData brand. We offer low cost, no contract, mobile broadband with data plans. Customers will be able to choose the data plan that best meets their particular needs at a competitive monthly service charge. Our low cost broadband plans will give more people the opportunity to experience the benefits of broadband on the go. Our iData service is offered primarily through the use of a personal mobile hotspot - the iData MiFi Mobile Hotspot that can connect up to 5 Wi-Fi enabled devices. COMMUNICATIONS Our communications products included a domestic & international mobile App and calling service delivered under the brand iTalk and iTalkGlobal.. iTalkGlobal intends to focus on delivering communications services through the combination of our iTalk hardware Sleeve and our mobile App coupled with convenient features and the delivery of low cost calls for consumers and businesses. iTalk intends to offers customers secure, instant activation and immediate access to the service while eliminating the need to use a PIN or switch long distance carriers. Other features include 24 hour online and over the phone recharge, speed dial, PIN-less dialing and online access to account balance, call history and purchase history. WIRELESS NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES We deliver mobile broadband wireless data transmission services primarily under the iData brand to subscribers through our mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) agreement with a sub provider on Sprint's nationwide network that utilizes third generation (3G) & fourth generation (4G) code division multiple access (CDMA) technologies. SALES, MARKETING AND CUSTOMER CARE The Companys focus will be on the marketing and sales of prepaid and postpaid enhanced mobile broadband and telecommunications services to targeted groups of retail subscribers: individual consumers, businesses, and government. We intend to use a variety of sales channels to attract new subscribers of enhanced mobile broadband services and telecommunications, including: direct telesales through representatives whose efforts focus on marketing and selling to consumers, businesses, and government; major distribution network partners, brick and mortar retail stores, local and national non-affiliated dealers, independent contractors, focusing on sales to the consumer market and businesses; and subscriber convenient channels, such as web sales, with a focus on commission based programs through affiliate marketing, email marketing, and strategic partnerships. We intend to be able to provide value driven mobile broadband and telecommunications services via our Mobile Virtual Network Operators agreement and other connections. We will market our mobile broadband prepaid services under the iData(TM) brand. We offer these prepaid mobile broadband services without a contract or credit check. Our Marketing efforts will also involve traditional print and television advertising, as well as web-based strategies such as Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Search Engine Marketing (SEM), Cost Per Mile (CPM) advertising, Pay Per Click (PPC) advertising, paid placements, email marketing, and social media advertising. We will expand and maintain top tier strategic partnerships, reseller and affiliate relationships, public relations, and online marketing efforts to promote our lines of business. Our customer care professionals intend to provide improved customer experiences, providing quality service with the goal of resolving customer issues and retaining a loyal customer base. We intend to proactively address customers' needs, and we offer live, in-house call center phone support, online chat support, and email support. 6 Historically, we have been able to raise a limited amount of capital through private placements of our equity stock, but we are uncertain about our continued ability to raise funds privately. Further, we believe that our company may have more difficulties raising capital for our existing operations than for a new business opportunity. We have not entered into any formal written agreements for a business combination or opportunity. If any such agreement is reached, we intend to disclose such an agreement by filing a current report on Form 8-Kwith the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we are unable to secure adequate capital to continue our business or alternatively, complete a combination or acquisition, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment and our business will likely fail. Industry Overview The U.S. telecom industry has experienced a major shift in the market share mix. During the last quarter of the twentieth century, landline phone services dominated the market. In the last ten years, the change has been sudden and pervasive. The market has shifted to modern telecom technologies that are more cost effective and convenient to use. Cellular networks show a continuous increase in the number of customers. The most significant factor that influenced the growth of cellular networks is convenience. With the introduction of CDMA and GSM networks with 3G and 4G speeds, growth has shifted drastically in the favor of the cellular networks. New breed of cell phones (smart phones) arent mere devices of making and receiving phone calls, they can be used for texting, storing data, taking pictures, sharing content and accessing the internet. Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) enables phone service anywhere in the world at little or no cost. 4G wireless Internet connections ensure that all calls are of very high quality and access is ubiquitous. New smart phones have excellent computing and multitasking ability that makes them ideal devices to be used as mobile VoIP phones. ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties and all other information contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may also hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report dated December 23, 2014, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that our consolidated financial statements for the year ended August 31, 2014 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. However, they expressed substantial doubt about our ability to do so. The Company has experienced an accumulated deficit of $3,227,161 as of August 31, 2014, including a net loss of $2,478,307 for the year ended August 31, 2014. We also had a working capital deficit of $2,246,029 at August 31, 2014 and cash on hand of $42,870. We also expect to incur additional losses for at least the first quarter of fiscal 2014-2015. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to increase revenues and generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, generating sales, or obtaining financing from various financial institutions where possible. By adjusting our operations and development to the level of capitalization, we believe that we have sufficient capital resources to meet projected near-term cash flow requirements. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient liquidity from operations or in raising sufficient capital resources, on terms acceptable to us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. There can be no assurances that our efforts will prove successful. The Companys consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Insufficient systems capacity or systems failures could harm our business. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the computer and communications systems supporting it. Notwithstanding our current capacity, heavy use of our computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. If our systems cannot be expanded successfully to handle increased demand, or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in service, slower response times, and delays in introducing new products and services. 7 Our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, and similar events. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our revenues. We also rely on a number of third parties for systems support. Any interruption in these third-party services or deterioration in the performance of these services could also be disruptive to our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the likelihood that services provided by third parties may be interrupted. We have not voluntarily implemented various corporate governance measures, in the absence of which, stockholders may have more limited protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. Recent Federal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in the adoption of various corporate governance measures designed to promote the integrity of the corporate management and the securities markets. Some of these measures have been adopted in response to legal requirements. Others have been adopted by companies in response to the requirements of national securities exchanges, such as the NYSE or The Nasdaq Stock Market, on which their securities are listed. Among the corporate governance measures that are required under the rules of national securities exchanges are those that address board of directors independence, audit committee oversight, and the adoption of a code of ethics. We have not adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics nor have we yet adopted any other corporate governance measures and, since our securities are not listed on a national securities exchange, we are not required to do so. We have not adopted corporate governance measures such as an audit or other independent committees of our Board of Directors. Prospective investors should bear in mind our current lack of corporate governance measures in formulating their investment decisions. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in the dilution of our existing stockholders. We have and may continue to experience substantial dilution. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.001 per share. We have filed a preliminary Schedule 14C with the Securities and Exchange Commission to increase the authorized of our common stock to 1,500,000,000. If and when such increased in implemented, our Board of Directors may choose to issue some or all of such shares to acquire one or more companies or properties and to fund our overhead and general operating requirements through convertible notes or other dilutive instruments. The immediate purpose for increasing the authorized shares is to provide enough shares required for the conversion of outstanding convertible notes and for the Company to potentially enter into additional convertible notes or similar instruments. Specifically, in addition to the 201,465,983 shares of common stock which are currently outstanding, we have reserved 181,474,124 shares of our common stock for the potential conversion of an aggregate of $115,000.00 convertible debt which we currently have outstanding. The issuance of any such shares may reduce the book value per share and may contribute to a reduction in the market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuance will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders. Our internal controls over financial reporting, and our disclosure