ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may", "should", expects", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "predicts", potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our unaudited financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this quarterly report. In this quarterly report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. All references to "US$" refer to United States dollars and all references to "common stock" refer to the common shares in our capital stock. As used in this quarterly report, the terms "we", "us", "our" and "our company" mean iTalk Inc., unless otherwise indicated. CORPORATE OVERVIEW Our company was incorporated on July 10, 2006 in the State of Nevada under the name Sopac Cellular Solutions Inc., and was formed to sell wireless technology and cell phone service to medium and large corporations, involving a large array of cellular service plans, cell phones, software and accessories. On December 18, 2012, we filed Articles of Merger with the Nevada Secretary of State to change our name from "Sopac Cellular Solutions Inc." to "iTalk, Inc.", to be effected by way of a merger with our wholly-owned subsidiary iTalk, Inc., which was created solely for the name change. Also on December 18, 2012, we filed a Certificate of Change with the Nevada Secretary of State to give effect to a forward split of our authorized, issued and outstanding shares of common stock on a 25 new for 1 old basis and, consequently, our authorized capital increased from 75,000,000 to 1,875,000,000 shares of common stock and our issued and outstanding shares of common stock increased from 1,700,000 to 42,500,000, all with a par value of $0.001.These amendments became effective on December 21, 2012 upon approval from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and our ticker symbol changed to our new symbol "TALK" to better reflect our company's new name. On July 10, 2013, the Companys majority stockholders approved an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation to reduce number of authorized shares of common stock from 1,875,000,000 to 500,000,000 shares and to authorize 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. On January 14, 2015 the Company filed an amendment to it's Articles increasing the authorized shares to 1,875,000,000 shares. In December 2014 iTalk, Inc. formed a subsidiary, Limestone Energy Holdings, Inc., a Florida corporation (Limestone) to explore a diversification strategy into the oil and gas industry. This new subsidiary was formed whereby the founders of Limestone are the CEO of iTalk, Inc. who owns 7% of Limestone, iTalk, Inc. owns 86%, Wager H.S., LLC owns 5% and Bridle Path Investments I, LLC owns 2%. The minority shareholders in Limestone have a right to convert into a like percentage of common shares of iTalk, Inc. only upon an oil and gas company acquisition by either Limestone directly or by iTalk, Inc. 15 PLAN OF OPERATIONS In December 2012, with the appointment of David F. Levy as president, chief executive officer, secretary and director, and under his leadership, our company changed its business focus and will now move forward with marketing and distributing its iTalk products. MOBILE BROADBAND We plan to launch secure nationwide mobile broadband wireless data transmission services primarily under the iData brand. We will offer low cost, no contract, mobile broadband with data plans. Customers will be able to choose the data plan that best meets their particular needs starting at $9.99 monthly. Our low cost broadband plans will give more people the opportunity to experience the benefits of broadband on the go. Our iData service is will be offered primarily through the use of a personal mobile hotspot - the iData MiFi Mobile Hotspot that can connect up to 5 Wi-Fi enabled devices. COMMUNICATIONS Our communications products include a domestic and international mobile App and calling service delivered under the brand iTalk and iTalkGlobal. iTalkGlobal intends to focus on delivering communications services through the combination of our iTalk hardware, Sleeve, and our mobile App coupled with convenient features and the delivery of low cost calls for consumers and businesses. iTalk intends to offers customers secure, instant activation and immediate access to the service while eliminating the need to use a PIN or switch long distance carriers. Other features include 24 hour online and over the phone recharge, speed dial, PIN-less dialing and online access to account balance, call history and purchase history. WIRELESS NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES We deliver mobile broadband wireless data transmission services primarily under the iData brand to subscribers through our mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) agreement with a sub provider on Sprint's nationwide network that utilizes third generation (3G) and fourth generation (4G) code division multiple access (CDMA) technologies. SALES, MARKETING AND CUSTOMER CARE We intend to focus on the marketing and sales of prepaid and postpaid enhanced mobile broadband and telecommunications services to targeted groups of retail subscribers: individual consumers, businesses, and government. We intend to use a variety of sales channels to attract new subscribers of enhanced mobile broadband services and telecommunications, including: * direct telesales through representatives whose efforts focus on marketing and selling to consumers, businesses, and government; * major distribution network partners, brick and mortar retail stores, local and national non-affiliated dealers, independent contractors, focusing on sales to the consumer market and businesses; and * subscriber convenient channels, such as web sales, with a focus on commission based programs through affiliate marketing, email marketing, and strategic partnerships. We intend to be able to provide value driven mobile broadband and telecommunications services via our Mobile Virtual Network Operators agreement and other connections. We will market our mobile broadband prepaid services under the iData(TM) brand. We offer these prepaid mobile broadband services without a contract or credit check. Our Marketing efforts will also involve traditional print and television advertising, as well as web-based strategies such as Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Search Engine Marketing (SEM), Cost Per Mile (CPM) advertising, Pay Per Click (PPC) advertising, paid placements, email marketing, and social media advertising. We will expand and maintain top tier strategic partnerships, reseller and affiliate relationships, public relations, and online marketing efforts to promote our lines of business. Our customer care professionals intend to provide improved customer experiences, providing quality service with the goal of resolving customer issues and retaining a loyal customer base. We intend to proactively address customers' needs, and we offer live, in-house call center phone support, online chat support, and email support. Historically, we have been able to raise a limited amount of capital through private placements of our equity stock, but we are uncertain about our continued ability to raise funds privately. Further, we believe that our company may have more difficulties raising capital for our existing operations than for a new business opportunity. We have not entered into any formal written agreements for a business combination or opportunity. If any such agreement is reached, we intend to disclose such an agreement by filing a current report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we are unable to secure adequate capital to continue our business or alternatively, complete a combination or acquisition, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment and our business will likely fail. 16 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues Total revenue during the three and six months ended February 28, 2015,was $159,301 and $339,838 as compared to $$137,620 and $345,952 for the same periods ended February 28, 2014. Lower sales resulted in lower review in 2015 over the same periods in 2014. We do anticipate that both new acquisitions and organic growth of existing acquisitions will be a continuing source of revenue in the future. Deferred Revenue Backlog At February 28, 2015, we have recorded deferred revenue of $ 104,565 that we expect to recognize throughout the next fiscal year. The majority of the deferred revenues recorded are being carried forward from fiscal 2013, which is a direct result of unused prepaid services purchased by our customers. Cost of Services Cost of services consists primarily of direct network services purchased from carriers under preferred bulk purchase agreements. Cost of service decreased to $80,456 during the three months ended February 28, 2015 as compared to $146,169 the three months ended February 28,2014 . Cost of service was $238,761 for the six months periods ended February 28, 2015 compared to $332,851 for the six months periods ended February 28, 2014.Lower sales in 2015 verses 2014 resluted in lower cost of services in the respective years and periods. Operating Expenses Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of consulting services, stock based compensation, insurance, fees for professional services, general corporate expenses and facility and equipment expenses. Selling general and administrative expenses were $186,950 and $301,317 during the three and six months ended February 28, 2015 as compared to $144,396 and $797,762 for the three and six months ended February 28, 2014, respcetively. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses during the three and six months ended February 28, 2015 was $24,135 and $24,354 as compared to $$35,075 and $62,997 for the same periods in 2014. Other income (expense) Gain (Loss) on Change in fair value of derivative liabilities. For the three and six months ended February 28, 2015, we incurred a $192,642 and $364,006 loss on change in fair value of our derivative liabilities compared to a loss of $1,134,280 and a gain of $154,526 for the same periods in 2014, respectively. Interest expense Interest expense was $48,320 and $52,194 for the three and six month periods ended February 28, 2015 compared to interest expense of $210,249 and $1,257,375 in the three and six month periods ended in February 28, 2014,respectively. During the three months and six months periods ended February 28, 2014, we incurred a non-cash interest expense from the amortization of debt discounts associated with our issued convertible note, net adjustment for forbearance against liquidated damages relating to a registration rights agreement entered into during the those periods in 2014 . Net Loss Net loss for the three and six months ended February 28, 2015 was $373,202 and $640,795 as compared to net loss of 716,003 and $1,978,517 for the same periods in 2014,respectively. The losses for all periods are due to the factors described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed our operations since inception primarily through private offerings of our equity securities and issuance of convertible notes. 17 Working Capital Our working capital deficit was $2,731,009 as of February 28, 2015 from a working capital deficit (current liabilities in excess of current assets) of $2,246,028 at August 31, 2014. Total current assets were $91,306 and $114,188 as of February 28, 2014 and August 31, 2014, respectively. Cash represented approximately $29,074 and $42,870 of the total assets as of February 28, 2015 and August 31, 2014, respectively. Cash flow analysis Cash used in operations was $73,795 during the six month period ended February 28, 2015. During the six month period ended February 28, 2015, our primary capital needs were for operating expenses, including funds to support our business strategy, which primarily includes working capital necessary to fund operations and reducing our account payables. Cash provided from financing activities were proceeds of $60,000 from issuance of convertible notes payable. The Company does not have significant revenues from operations and will be dependent on funds raise to satisfy its ongoing capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. The Company will require additional financing in order to execute its operating plan and continue as a going concern. The Company cannot predict whether this additional financing will be in the form of equity or debt, or be in another form. The Company may not be able to obtain the necessary additional capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. In any of these events, the Company may be unable to implement its current plans for expansion or respond to competitive pressures, any of these circumstances would have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Management expects that global economic conditions will continue to present a challenging operating environment through 2015. To the extent permitted by working capital resources, management intends to continue making targeted investments in strategic operating and growth initiatives. Working capital management will continue to be a high priority for 2015. While we have been able to manage our working capital needs with the current credit facilities, additional financing is required in order to meet our current and projected cash flow requirements from operations. We cannot predict whether this new financing will be in the form of equity or debt. We may not be able to obtain the necessary additional capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. Additional investments are being sought, but we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain such investments. Financing transactions may include the issuance of equity or debt securities, obtaining credit facilities, or other financing mechanisms. However, the trading price of our common stock and the downturn in the U.S. stock and debt markets could make it more difficult to obtain financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities. Even if we are able to raise the funds required, it is possible that we could incur unexpected costs and expenses, fail to collect significant amounts owed to us, or experience unexpected cash requirements that would force us to seek alternative financing. Further, if we issue additional equity or debt securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If additional financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we will have to curtail our operations. Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not maintain off-balance sheet arrangements nor do we participate in any non-exchange traded contracts requiring fair value accounting treatment. Going Concern The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which contemplate continuation of the Company as a going concern. However, the Company has reported net losses of $640,795and $1,978,517for the six month periods ended February 28, 2015 and 2014, respectively, accumulated deficit of $2,822,315and total current liabilities in excess of current assets of $2,731,009 as of February 28, 2015. The Company has minimal revenues from operations and will be dependent on raising funds to satisfy its ongoing capital requirements for the next 12 months. The Company will require additional financing in order to execute its operating plan and continue as a going concern. The Company cannot predict whether this additional financing will be in the form of equity or debt, or by in another form. The Company may not be able to obtain the necessary additional capital on a timely basis, or on acceptable terms, or at all. In any of these pressures, any of these circumstances would have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classifications of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 18