ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Hudson Executive Investment Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors and references to the Sponsor refer to HEC Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report (the Financial Statements). Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Financial Statements. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 5, 2021 (the Annual Report) and our other filings from time to time with the SEC. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on February 6, 2020 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of entering into a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities, which we refer to throughout this Quarterly Report as our initial business combination. To date, our efforts have been limited to organizational activities, completion of our initial public offering (referred to herein as our Initial Public Offering) and the evaluation of possible business combinations, and we have neither engaged in any other operations nor generated any revenues. Based on our business activities to date, the Company is a shell company as defined under the Exchange Act because we have minimal operations and nominal assets consisting almost entirely of cash held in a trust account. The Company was co-founded by Hudson Executive Capital LP (Hudson Executive Capital), a value-oriented, event-driven investment firm with a focus on, and experience across, the financial services and healthcare sectors, Douglas L. Braunstein, our President and Chairman, and Douglas G. Bergeron, our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Braunstein is the Founder and a Managing Partner of Hudson Executive Capital and Mr. Bergeron is a Managing Partner. Hudson Executive Capital, which is a member of our sponsor and is our affiliate, was founded in 2015 and has a successful history investing in undervalued domestic small and mid-cap public companies with identified and actionable opportunities for value creation. Since Hudson Executive Capitals inception, the majority of its employed capital has been focused on financial services and healthcare. On June 11, 2020, we completed our Initial Public Offering of 41,400,000 units (Units) at a price of $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds of $414,000,000. Each unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-half of one redeemable warrant of the Company. Each whole warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one share of Class A common stock for $11.50 per share, subject to certain adjustments and conditions. On January 12, 2021, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement (the Merger Agreement) with certain entities collectively known as Talkspace, and we refer to our proposed merger with Talkspace throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as our Proposed Business Combination. We intend to effectuate the Proposed Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering, the sale of the private placement warrants that occurred simultaneously with the completion of our Initial Public Offering and the sale of the forward purchase units, shares issued to the owners of the target, debt issued to bank or other lenders or the owners of the target, or a combination of the foregoing. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to December 31, 2020 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, following the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a business combination and completing activities related to the Merger Agreement. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of an initial business combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing our initial business combination. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net income of $10,361,129, which consisted of the change in the value of our warrant and FPA liabilities of $11,042,400 and interest earned on the marketable securities of $47,151, offset by operating costs of $728,422. For the period from February 6, 2020 (inception) through March 31, 2020, we had a net loss of $1,000, which consists of formation costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources On June 11, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 41,400,000 Units, which included the full exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option to purchase an additional 5,400,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $414,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 10,280,000 Private Placement Warrants to our Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $10,280,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $414,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $23,353,182 in transaction costs, including $8,280,000 of underwriting fees, $14,490,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $583,182 of other offering costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $801,083. Net income of $10,361,129 was offset by a non-cash charge for the change in the fair value of warrant and FPA liabilities of $11,042,400 interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $47,151, and increased by operating costs paid through promissory note proceeds of $2,586. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $75,247 of cash from operating activities. For the period from February 6, 2020 (inception) through March 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $1,000. As of March 31, 2021, we had cash and marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $414,275,432. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes payable and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our initial Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. During the period ended March 31, 2021, we did not withdraw any interest income from the Trust Account. As of March 31, 2021, we had $377,294 of cash held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with our initial Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete 24 Table of Contents such financing simultaneously with the completion of our initial Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Going Concern We have until June 11, 2022 to consummate an initial business combination. It is uncertain that we will be able to consummate an initial business combination by this time. If an initial business combination is not consummated by this date, we may require additional capital or there may be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, suspending the pursuit of a business combination. We cannot provide assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Management has determined that the liquidity condition, should an initial business combination not occur, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on June 8, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of our Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $14,490,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will be forfeited by the underwriters in the event that the Company fails to complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. In addition, we entered into a forward purchase agreement (the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement) with HEC Master Fund LP (HEC Master) pursuant to which HEC Master has committed to purchase from us up to 5,000,000 Forward Purchase Units, for $10.00 per unit, or an aggregate amount of up to $50,000,000, in a private placement that will close concurrently with the closing of a Business Combination. The proceeds from the sale of these Forward Purchase Units, together with the amounts available to us from the Trust Account (after giving effect to any redemptions of Public Shares) and any other equity or debt financing obtained by us in connection with the Business Combination, will be used to satisfy the cash requirements of the Business Combination, including funding the purchase price and paying expenses and retaining specified amounts to be used by the post-Business Combination company for working capital or other purposes. To the extent that the amounts available from the Trust Account and other financing are sufficient for such cash requirements, HEC Master may purchase less than 5,000,000 Forward Purchase Units. In addition, HEC Masters commitment under the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement will be subject to approval, prior to us entering into a definitive agreement for the initial Business Combination, of its investment committee. Pursuant to the terms of the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement, HEC Master will have the option to assign its commitment to one of its affiliates and up to $2,500,000 to members of our management team. The Forward Purchase Shares will be identical to the shares of Class A common stock included in the units sold in the Initial Public Offering, except that they will be subject to transfer restrictions and registration rights. The HEC Forward Purchase Warrants will have the same terms as the Private Placement Warrants so long as they are held by HEC Master or its permitted assignees and transferees. In connection with the signing of the Merger Agreement, the Company and HEC Master amended the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the First Amendment to the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement, dated January 12, 2021, HEC Masters purchase obligations were amended such that HEC Master is obligated to purchase 2,500,000 Forward Purchase Units and backstop up to $25,000,000 of redemptions by our stockholders through the purchase of additional Forward Purchase Units, in each case valued at $10.00 per Forward Purchase Unit, in a private placement that will close concurrently with the closing of the Business Combination. 25 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant and Forward Purchase Agreement Liabilities We account for the Warrants and the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815 under which the Warrants and the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the Warrants and the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants and the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement to fair value at each reporting period. These liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. The fair value of the Public Warrants has been estimated using the Public Warrants quoted market price. The Private Placement Warrants and the HEC Forward Purchase Agreement are valued using a Modified Black Scholes Option Pricing Model. Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable franchise and income taxes, by the weighted average number of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding for the period. Net loss per common share, basic and diluted for Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the net income, less income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock, by the weighted average number of Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the period presented. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.