Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section as to Talkspace, the Company, we, us or our refer to the business of Talkspace, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the financial statements and the related notes contained in this Quarterly Report and the financial statements and related notes contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, such as those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 and Forward-Looking Statements sections and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. The purpose of this section is to discuss and analyze our consolidated financial condition, liquidity and capital resources and results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Overview Talkspace is a healthcare company offering its members convenient and affordable access to a fully-credentialed network of highly qualified providers. We are a leading virtual behavioral health company connecting millions of patients with licensed mental health providers across a wide and growing spectrum of care through virtual psychotherapy and psychiatry. We created a purpose-built platform to address the vast, unmet and growing demand for mental health services of our members. Through its platform, Talkspace serves: Health insurance plans (commercial and government) and employee assistance programs (Payor), who offer their insured members access to the Company's platform at in-network reimbursement rates, Direct-to-Enterprise (DTE), comprised of enterprises, who offer their enterprise members access to the Company's platform while their enterprise is under an active contract with Talkspace, and Individual subscribers (Consumer) who subscribe directly to the Company's platform. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, our clinicians completed 350,000 sessions, related to members covered under our Payor customers, compared to 284,200 completed sessions, for the three months ended March 31, 2024. As of March 31, 2025, we had over 6,900 Consumer active members compared to 11,100 Consumer active members as of March 31, 2024. Please refer to the Key Business Metrics section below for a description of Consumer active members. Inflation Risk and Economic Conditions The demand for our solution is dependent on the general economy, which is in turn affected by geopolitical conditions, the stability of the global credit markets, inflationary pressures, higher interest rates, the industries in which our Payor and DTE customers operate or serve, and other factors. Downturns in the general economy could disproportionately affect the demand for our solution and cause it to decrease. Our operations could also be impacted by inflation and higher interest rates. Inflation did not have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. However, if our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures (such as Provider cost), we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases or cost savings. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Operating Segments The Company operates as a single segment, which is how the chief operating decision maker (CODM), who is the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial performance and allocates resources. 15 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We monitor the following key metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. We believe the following metrics are useful in evaluating our business: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands except number of health plan and enterprise customers or otherwise indicated) Unaudited Unaudited Number of completed Payor sessions during the period 350.0 284.2 Number of health plan customers at period end 31 23 Number of enterprise customers at period end 173 195 Number of Consumer active members at period end 6.9 11.1 Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Unaudited Unaudited Unique Payor active members during the period 101.2 86.3 Active Members: We consider consumer members active commencing on the date such member initiates contact with a provider on our platform until the term of their monthly, quarterly or bi-annual subscription plan expires, unless terminated early. Unique Payor Active Members: Represents unique users who had a session completed during the period. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We generate revenues from services provided to individuals who are qualified to receive access to the Company's services through our commercial arrangements with health insurance plans, employee assistance organizations and enterprises. We also generate revenues from the sale of monthly, quarterly, bi-annual and annual membership subscriptions to the Company's therapy platform as well as supplementary a la carte offerings directly to individual consumers through a subscription plan. See Note 3, Revenue Recognition in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. Revenue growth is generated from a combination of increasing utilization within our Payor members and expanding enterprise customers. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of therapist payments. Cost of revenues is largely driven by the number of sessions and the size of our provider network that is required to service the growth of our Payor and DTE customers, in addition to the growth of our customer base. We designed our business model and our provider network to be scalable and to leverage a hybrid model of both employee providers and independently contracted providers to support multiple growth scenarios. The compensation paid to our independently contracted providers is variable, and the amount paid to a provider is generally based on the amount of time committed by such provider to our members. Our employee providers receive a fixed-salary and discretionary bonuses, where applicable, all of which is included in cost of revenues. While we expect to make increased investments to support accelerated growth and the required investment to scale our provider network, we also expect increased efficiencies and economies of scale. Our cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues is expected to fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these factors as well as pricing fluctuations. 16 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, clinical operations, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses include personnel and related expenses for software development and engineering, information technology infrastructure, security, privacy compliance and product development (inclusive of stock-based compensation for our research and development employees), third-party services and contractors related to research and development, information technology and software-related costs. Research and development expenses exclude amounts reflected as capitalized internal-use software development costs. Clinical Operations Expenses Clinical operations expenses are associated with the management of our network of therapists. This item is comprised of costs related to recruiting, onboarding, credentialing, training and ongoing quality assurance activities (inclusive of stock-based compensation for our clinical operations employees), costs of third-party services and contractors related to recruiting and training and software-related costs. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, commissions, travel and stock-based compensation costs for our employees engaged in sales and account management. Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising and marketing expenses for member acquisition and engagement, as well as personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense for marketing employees, third-party services and contractors. Marketing expenses also include third-party software subscription services, third-party independent research, participation in trade shows, brand messaging and costs of communications materials that are produced for our customers to generate greater awareness and utilization of our platform among our Payor and DTE customers. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense for certain executives, finance, accounting, legal and human resources functions, as well as professional fees. Financial income, net Financial income, net includes the impact from (i) interest earned in investments in marketable securities and other highly liquid investments, (ii) non-cash changes in the fair value of our warrant liabilities, and (iii) other financial expenses in connection with bank charges. Taxes on income Taxes on income consists of U.S. income taxes related to income generated by our U.S. subsidiary and foreign income taxes related to income generated by our subsidiary organized under the laws of Israel. Taxes on income were immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. 17 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 and the dollar and percentage change between the respective periods: Three Months Ended March 31, Variance (in thousands, except percentages) 2025 2024 $ % Revenue: Unaudited Unaudited Payor revenue $ 37,842 $ 28,508 9,334 32.7 DTE revenue 9,583 9,913 (330 ) (3.3 ) Consumer revenue 4,757 6,995 (2,238 ) (32.0 ) Total revenue 52,182 45,416 6,766 14.9 Cost of revenue 28,901 23,685 5,216 22.0 Gross profit 23,281 21,731 1,550 7.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 3,319 3,739 (420 ) (11.2 ) Clinical operations, net 1,856 1,464 392 26.8 Sales and marketing 13,984 13,009 975 7.5 General and administrative 5,207 5,198 9 0.2 Total operating expenses 24,366 23,410 956 4.1 Income (loss) from operations (1,085 ) (1,679 ) 594 35.4 Financial income, net (1,526 ) (378 ) (1,148 ) 303.7 Income (loss) before taxes on income 441 (1,301 ) 1,742 * Income tax expense 123 165 (42 ) (25.5 ) Net income (loss) $ 318 $ (1,466 ) $ 1,784 * * Percentage not meaningful. Revenues Revenues increased by $6.8 million, or 14.9% to $52.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $45.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was principally due to a 32.7% increase in Payor revenue driven by a higher number of completed Payor sessions, partially offset by a 32.0% decline in Consumer revenue. Revenue from our Payor customers increased by $9.3 million, or 32.7%, to $37.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $28.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Revenue from our DTE customers was $9.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Consumer revenue decreased by $2.2 million, or 32.0%, to $4.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, due to the Company's intentional and strategic decision to optimize and focus marketing efforts on attracting Payor members. While we no longer have marketing resources dedicated solely to the Consumer category, it continues to have a positive contribution to our financial results. Costs of revenues Cost of revenues increased by $5.2 million, or 22.0%, to $28.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $23.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was primarily due to increased hours worked by therapists as a result of increased Payor sessions. Gross profit Gross profit increased by $1.6 million, or 7.1%, to $23.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $21.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in gross profit was primarily driven by an increase in the Company's revenues partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues to service more members and sessions. Gross margin was 44.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 47.8% during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decline in gross margin was driven by a shift in revenue mix towards Payor as Consumer sessions tend to provide higher margins. Operating expenses Overall, operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased by $1.0 million or 4.1% to $24.4 million from $23.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. 18 Table of Contents Research and development expenses.Research and development expenses decreased by $0.4 million, or 11.2%, to $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs, inclusive of non-cash stock compensation expense, as a result of the exclusion of amounts reflected as capitalized internal-use software development costs. Capitalized internal-use software development costs were $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Clinical operations expenses.Clinical operations expenses increased by $0.4 million, or 26.8% to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in clinical operations expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs, inclusive of non-cash stock compensation expense. Sales and marketing expenses.Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.0 million, or 7.5%, to $14.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $13.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily driven by an increase in direct marketing and promotional costs. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Financial income, net Financial income, net was $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $0.4 million three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in financial income, net was primarily due to interest income earned on the investments in marketable securities and other highly liquid investments partially offset by a decrease in non-cash losses resulting from the remeasurement of warrant liabilities. Taxes on income Taxes on income were immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance, and our management uses it as a key performance measure to assess our operating performance. Because adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure for business planning purposes and in evaluating acquisition opportunities. We also use adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook. We believe that the use of adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a metric used by management in assessing the health of our business and our operating performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include (i) adjusted EBITDA does not necessarily reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future and (ii) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect these requirements. In evaluating adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we will incur expenses similar to the adjustments described herein. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items. Our adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because they may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we calculate the measure, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to income (loss) before income taxes, net income (loss), income (loss) per share, or any other performance measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our performance, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including our net income (loss) and other GAAP results. 19 Table of Contents A reconciliation is provided below for adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We do not provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA guidance as the amount and significance of the reconciling items required to develop meaningful comparable GAAP financial measures cannot be estimated at this time without unreasonable efforts. These reconciling items could be meaningful. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss income adjusted to exclude (i) depreciation and amortization, (ii) stock-based compensation expense, (iii) financial income, net, (iv) income tax expense, and (v) certain non-recurring expenses, where applicable. The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA from the most comparable GAAP measure, net income (loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Unaudited Unaudited Net income (loss) $ 318 $ (1,466 ) Add: Depreciation and amortization 649 201 Stock-based compensation 2,333 2,252 Financial income, net (1,526 ) (378 ) Income tax expense 123 165 Non-recurring expenses 58 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,955 $ 774 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, we had $60.1 million of cash and cash equivalents ($76.7 million as of December 31, 2024), and $48.3 million in marketable securities ($41.1 million as of December 31, 2024) which we use to finance our operations and support a variety of growth initiatives and investments. We had no debt as of March 31, 2025. Our primary cash needs are to fund operating activities and invest in technology development. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, contract renewal activity, the timing and extent of investments to support product development efforts, our expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of virtual behavioral services. Additionally, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies. We currently anticipate to be able to fund our cash needs for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future using available cash and cash equivalent balances as of March 31, 2025. However, in the future we may require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics, customer demands, business and investment opportunities, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and we may determine to engage in equity or debt financings for other reasons. We may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt or other equity-linked securities, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we cannot raise capital when needed, we may be forced to undertake asset sales or similar measures to ensure adequate liquidity. 20 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Program On February 22, 2024, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program to authorize the repurchase of up to $15.0 million of the currently outstanding shares of the Companys common stock over a period of twenty-four months beginning on March 1, 2024 (the Share Repurchase Program). On August 1, 2024, the Companys Board of Directors amended the Share Repurchase Program to authorize the Company to repurchase up to an additional $25.0 million of its common stock for a total of $40.0 million. The Share Repurchase Program will remain in effect until the total authorized dollar amount of shares is repurchased or August 1, 2026. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, the Company repurchased and canceled an aggregate of 2,519,170 shares of its common stock for a total consideration of $7.0 million ($2.76 per share). As of March 31, 2025, $22.1 million remained available under the Share Repurchase Program. Such repurchases may be completed periodically through various methods in compliance with applicable state and federal securities laws and will be at times and in amounts as the Company deems appropriate, based on factors such as price, market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, constraints specified in any Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, alternative investment opportunities and other business considerations. All shares repurchased will be canceled. The program does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares, and may be suspended or terminated at any time. See Note 7, Capital Stock in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. Cash Flows from Operating, Investing and Financing Activities The following table presents the summary condensed consolidated cash flow information for the periods presented: Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Unaudited Unaudited Net cash used in operating activities $ (1,239 ) $ (3,391 ) Net cash used in investing activities (9,019 ) (385 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (6,357 ) 146 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (16,615 ) $ (3,630 ) Operating Activities The decrease in net cash used in operating activities was driven primarily by positive cash flows from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025, primarily due to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Investing Activities The increase in net cash used in investing activities was driven primarily by purchases of marketable securities and an increase in capitalized internal-use software development costs during the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to March 31, 2024. Financing Activities The increase in net cash used in financing activities was driven primarily by the purchase of outstanding shares of the Companys common stock under the Share Repurchase Program during the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to March 31, 2024. 21 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies As of March 31, 2025, we did not have any short-term or long-term debt, or significant long-term liabilities. As of March 31, 2025, we have a non-material long-term operating lease for our office space in New York, NY. We may in the future be involved in various legal proceedings, claims and litigation that arise in the normal course of business. We accrue for estimated loss contingencies related to legal matters when available information indicates that it is probable a liability has been incurred and we can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. In addition, even where a loss is possible or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the liability already accrued with respect to a previously recognized loss contingency, it is often not possible to reasonably estimate the size of the possible loss or range of loss or possible additional losses or range of additional losses. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. As of March 31, 2025 there were no material legal proceedings, claims or litigation. Our commercial contract arrangements generally include certain provisions requiring us to indemnify customers against liabilities if there is a breach of a customers data or if our service infringes a third partys intellectual property rights. To date, we have not incurred any material costs as a result of such indemnifications. We have also agreed to indemnify our officers and directors for costs associated with any fees, expenses, judgments, fines and settlement amounts incurred by any of these persons in any action or proceeding to which any of those persons is, or is threatened to be, made a party by reason of the persons service as a director or officer, including any action by us, arising out of that persons services as our director or officer or that persons services provided to any other company or enterprise at our request. We maintain director and officer liability insurance coverage that would generally enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We may also be subject to indemnification obligations by law with respect to the actions of our employees under certain circumstances and in certain jurisdictions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not invest in any off-balance sheet vehicles that provide liquidity, capital resources, market or credit risk support, or engage in any activities that expose us to any liability that is not reflected in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Reference is also made to the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. The Companys accounting policies are essential to understanding and interpreting the financial results reported on the condensed consolidated financial statements. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements are summarized in Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Certain of those policies are considered to be particularly important to the presentation of the Company's financial results because they require management to make difficult, complex or subjective judgments, often as a result of matters that are inherently uncertain. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, there were no material changes to matters discussed under the heading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information regarding recent accounting developments and their impact on our results can be found in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates in the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 and in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 22 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) contains forward-looking statements. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Quarterly Report may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, targets, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, forecasts, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, industry and business trends, stock-based compensation, revenue recognition, business strategy, plans and market growth. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report and other such statements we publicly make from time-to-time are only predictions. We base these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Many important factors could cause actual future events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report, including but not limited to: (i) rapid technological change in our industry; (ii) our ability to secure clients' contract renewals; (iii) our ability to maintain and expand our network of therapists, psychiatrists and other providers; (iv) a decline in the prevalence of enterprise-sponsored healthcare or the emergence of new technologies may adversely impact our DTE business; (v) if our or our vendors security measures fail or are breached; (vi) changes in healthcare laws, regulations or trends and our ability to operate in the heavily regulated healthcare industry; (vii) and the other factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, including this report. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Quarterly, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. You should read this Quarterly Report and the risk factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance and achievements may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or any forward-looking statements we may publicly make from time-to-time, whether as a result of any new information, future events or otherwise. 23 Table of Contents