Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Description of Business, are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Issuer Direct Corporation, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. In our capacity as Company management, we may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements with respect to our long-term objectives or expectations which may be included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), reports to stockholders and information provided in our web site. The words or phrases will likely, are expected to, is anticipated, is predicted, forecast, estimate, project, plans to continue, believes, or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We are calling to your attention important factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed with respect to future periods in any current statements. The following list of important factors may not be all-inclusive, and we specifically decline to undertake an obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. Among the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve expected operating results and growth plan goals and/or affect the market price of our stock are: Dependence on key personnel. Fluctuation in quarterly operating results and seasonality in certain of our markets. Our ability to raise capital to fund our operations. Our ability to successfully integrate and operate acquired or newly formed entities, ventures and or subsidiaries. Changes in laws and regulations that affect our operations. Available Information The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Company Overview iTalk, Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, iTalk, the Company, we or our) is a Nevada corporation formed in October 1988 under the name SOPAC Cellular Solutions, Inc. In May 2012, we changed our name to iTalk, Inc. Our executive offices are located at 100 E Linton Blvd., Suite 144-A, Delray Beach, FL 33483. Business iTalk is a full service solutions provider for the mobility industry, specializing in retail and wholesale distribution, master agent services, as well as providing turnkey dealer portal and logistic solutions to our clients. We have positioned ourselves to stay ahead of the evolving mobile technology era through our focus on value added services. iTalk is a proud preferred distribution partner with the fastest growing Post Paid carrier in the nation as well as the number 1 fastest growing Prepaid Carrier in the nation. Through its extensive portfolio of capabilities and talent, iTalk is able to provide a turnkey solution for the demands of today's wireless industry and provide value added solutions to its growing network of resellers and eCommerce driven consumers. Our foundation is built on a solid distribution network, comprising of various channels enabling us to continue to source and develop innovative products and services while quickly deploying new emerging mobile technologies and brands into the marketplace. iTalk currently employs 30 people and is based in Norcross, GA with operations in San Antonio TX, Dallas TX, the Carolinas, Georgia and Miami, Florida, with planned expansion throughout the United States. The company intends to grow its direct to dealer business model. The company plans to add distribution centers in major target cities. On May 2, 2013, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with AA Enterprises pursuant to which the Company acquired substantially all the assets of AA Enterprises, including, but not limited to, all intellectual property rights relating to RocketVoIP. On June 6, 2013 the Company acquired ITG, Inc. ("ITG"), a Texas corporation in an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to purchase substantially all of the assets of ITG, including, but not limited to, all intellection property rights relating to ITG, EasyTalk and Valucom (the "Acquired Assets). We continue to focus on both the organic growth of our revenue streams as well as evaluating potential acquisitions that would complement our core business operations and accelerate our overall mission of providing new and innovative communications services to consumers. In December 2014, we formed a subsidiary, Limestone Energy Holdings, Inc., a Florida corporation (Limestone), to explore a diversification strategy into the oil and gas industry. Subsequently, on January 6, 2015, Limestone entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the Hilliard Purchase Agreement) with Hilliard Bender Energy, LLC, a Florida limited liability company, (Hilliard). On October 19, 2015, Limestone and Hilliard mutually agreed to terminate the Hilliard Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, Limestone will not complete the acquisition of Hilliard. The Company entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the UMS Purchase Agreement) on September 24, 2015 with Kil W. Lee (Mr. Lee) and United Mobile Solutions Corp., a Delaware corporation (formerly known as United Mobile Solutions, LLC) (UMS). Pursuant to the terms of the UMS Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to acquire from Mr. Lee all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of UMS in exchange for shares of the Companys preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, (Preferred Stock), convertible into 85% of the Companys fully diluted common stock, par value $0.001 per share (Common Stock), as of the date of closing (the Exchange), prior to giving effect to dilution of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock by (i) shares of Common Stock underlying options to be issued to David Levy under a management option plan, which will represent 5.0% of the fully diluted shares of Common Stock of the Company at the date of exercise of the options (Prospective Levy Options), (ii) shares of Common Stock underlying a warrant to be issued to Mesa Partner, which will represent 4.9% of the fully diluted shares of Common Stock of the Company at the date of exercise of the warrant (Prospective Mesa Partner Warrant), and (iii) shares of Common Stock underlying a warrant to be issued to Andora Holdings, LLC, which will represent 4.9% of the fully diluted shares of Common Stock of the Company at the date of exercise of the warrant (Prospective Andora Holdings Warrant). On January 29, 2016 (Closing Date), the Company closed (Closing) on the Exchange under the UMS Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the Company acquired 100,000 shares of common stock of UMS held by Mr. Lee, representing all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of UMS, in exchange for issuing 106,250 shares of Preferred Stock of the Company to Mr. Lee and/or his affiliates, convertible into 10,625,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company (where each share of Preferred Stock is convertible into 100,000 shares of Common Stock). Upon Closing of the Exchange, UMS became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and the Companys pro-forma shares of Common stock and Preferred Stock issued and outstanding after giving effect to the Exchange was 1,875,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 106,250 shares of Preferred Stock, convertible into 10,625,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company (representing approximately representing 85% of the Companys fully diluted Common Stock as of the Closing Date), prior to giving effect to dilution of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock by the shares of Common Stock underlying the Prospective Levy Options, Prospective Mesa Partner Warrant and Prospective Andora Holdings Warrant. 4 Revenue Sources The Companys global communications receive sales revenues through credit card charges for prepaid communications services processed and paid by American Express, VISA and Global Pay. The Companys services are delivered over the Internet and terminated though third party carriers. The Company sells cellular mobile products to wireless resellers and distributors. The Company not only sells smart phone devices, at times the Company is contracted by 3 rd parties for refurbishment services where the company charges for labor and time. The Companys revenues are also generated from reoccurring revenues from its carrier master dealership business. The Company generates a commission per activation; spiff for reaching targeted goals and a reoccurring monthly residual income from the active subscribers. The Company also enables retailers wireless airtime replenishment through an online portal through its relationships with payment processing companies as an independent sales operative. Leveraging the Existing Network to Increase Opportunities The Company currently has sales and warehouse operations in Dallas, Texas and Norcross, Georgia. By utilizing this geographic diversity and the established relationships with retailers and wholesale distributors, the Company is in position to effectively launch new products and services with relatively low risk. The Company can achieve this by adding on to the existing network, which will result in increased earnings. Recently the company has customized a licensed software package for an informational and customer management system that allows us to not only tracks each and every customer order from purchase to delivery, but also to identify customer and geographic trends. This system is scalable and under constant improvement to streamline operations and maximize operational efficiencies. Competitive Landscape While there are several regional companies who compete for market share based on price, new competitors coming into the market are facing a tougher barrier to entry. The market will continue to see more mergers and acquisitions, and the landscape as the Company knows it will make it more difficult for undercapitalized and/or startup companies to remain competitive. Regulation Communications services industries are generally subject to regulation in the United States and elsewhere. Regulatory policies in the United States are administered by the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC). The FCCs regulations distinguish between dominant and non-dominant providers of services. The Company is considered a non-dominant provider of services. As such, we are subject to minimal regulation and oversight. Our Strategy Our strategy incorporates a blend of organic growth and complementary acquisitions. As the market continues to intensify for the solutions we offer, it is evident that customers are seeking a single sourced, lower cost, less complex way of calling, texting and accessing the Web. It is iTalks strategy to be the low cost provider in its market segments. SALES, MARKETING AND CUSTOMER CARE To properly establish products and services into a store relies on the personal touch from one of the Companys sales representatives. This personal contact over the phone or in person helps convey the Companys vision, builds rapport, and demonstrates the unique qualities of the products and services offered. As a consultative approach to customers, sales representatives from iTalk conduct in-store visits and offer in-store coaching and training to reach maximum sales and distribution potential from each customer. As distribution expands, the Company will adjust to meet greater demand by increasing dealer communications in-person, virtually, or remotely. The Companys promotional strategy has been mostly organic and is comprised of sales promotions, referral business, email marketing campaigns, and most importantly the solid network of relationships the Company has. The staff at iTalk offers short-term sales promotions and interaction to wireless retailers and distributors tied to bundle deals, requesting a specific model, free shipping on minimum quantities, bulk pricing, equipment service solutions, and premium OEM and certified refurbished products. In addition, iTalk is currently working with several carriers, national distributors and vendors to leverage the suite of products and services for promotion into their customer channels. 5 This will all be done under the name of a holding company and will be branded market-by-market. Methodology 1. Partner with wireless advertising mediums including Wireless Dealer Magazine and The Prepaid Press to attract a new dealer base, market to a larger audience, and capture more market share. The Company will engage these relationships to get products and services in front of over 100,000 wireless retailers and distributors. The Company has been highly effective with an organic marketing and sales strategy, but partnering with a wireless advertising medium will begin the national marketing and branding campaign to reach beyond the Companys current reach. 2. Focus on integrating all online platforms with social media marketing and offer daily/weekly/monthly deals to drive customer acquisition, retain customers, and create a larger brand image. 3. Actively tailor digital presence by utilizing search engine optimization tools and enhancing online content to ensure a higher level of online website acquisitions and conversions through direct online marketing, organic search marketing, and referral marketing and social media marketing. 4. Utilize online advertising tools like AdWords and pay-per-click to attract new online users, increase inbound call volumes, and grow online sales. Overall effective and cost efficient based on only paying for users who actually click the advertisement. 5. Create a third party logistics program for wireless dealers and distributors that want a low barrier of entry to become a wireless reseller. Capitalize on ERP and online platform to extend digital infrastructure to other qualified distributors and retailers wanting to offer same products and services to their business customers by utilizing online technology in markets not easily attainable or out of the companys reach. 6. Market an alternative to new devices and increase the certified refurbished and OEM replacement device sales to attract a larger audience looking for more affordable and comparable alternatives to new devices. In-house repair and kitting gives the company a competitive advantage to actively pursue used devices and create a demand for them. This concept can be similar and related to the used car market. 7. Attend and exhibit at trade shows including CTIA Las Vegas, CES Las Vegas and the Wireless Repair Expo. The Wireless Repair Expo will give exposure to specifically Touchpoint, and CTIA and CES will help properly expose the iTalk brand to the masses. Promotions and Pricing Strategy The Company expects to create an inventory write down or reserve equaling 1% to 1.5% of total inventory cost for liquidation items and promotional efforts. With improving logistic operations, the reserve will be applied toward bestselling items and promotions on bestselling items. We believe that this method will help differentiate us from competitors. The Company believes this will also drive new customer acquisition and further loyalty among clients. Industry Overview The U.S. telecom industry has experienced a major shift in the market share mix. During the last quarter of the twentieth century, landline phone services dominated the market. In the last ten years, the change has been sudden and pervasive. The market has shifted to modern telecom technologies that are more cost effective and convenient to use. Cellular networks show a continuous increase in the number of customers. The most significant factor that influenced the growth of cellular networks is convenience. With the introduction of CDMA and GSM networks with 3G and 4G speeds, growth has shifted drastically in the favor of the cellular networks. The new breed of cell phones (smart phones) arent mere devices of making and receiving phone calls, they can be used for texting, storing data, taking pictures, sharing content and accessing the internet. Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) enables phone service anywhere in the world at little or no cost. 4G wireless Internet connections ensure that all calls are of very high quality and access is ubiquitous. New smart phones have excellent computing and multitasking ability that makes them ideal devices to be used as mobile VoIP phones. 6 The Market The most recent issue of PWCs North American Wireless Industry Survey published in February 2015 states that there is an industry shift towards prepaid. The survey results indicate that the average postpaid connections grew by just 1.2 percent year over year in 2013. On the other hand, the average prepaid connections grew 30.2 percent year over year. The increase in prepaid subscribers using smartphones is growing at a faster rate with an almost 50 percent increase on a year over year basis; driven largely by availability of devices to this customer segment. An average of 35 percent of the prepaid subscriber base utilized a smartphone as of December 31, 2013, compared with 17 percent as of December 31, 2012. Smartphones are also increasingly becoming a more significant part of prepaid phones sales with smartphones averaging 38 percent of prepaid phones sales with smartphones averaging 38 percent of prepaid phones sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, as compared with 27 percent for the year ended December 31, 2012. Advertising, Public Relations and Promotion Advertisements will be targeted to industry specific mediums to target wireless industry resellers. Examples of the ways in which the Company plans to reach its target audience are through the following methods: Public relations and marketing has been contracted with Mesa Partners. Trade shows CTIA Las Vegas, CES Las Vegas, CEBIT Spain, Global Sources Mobile Electronics Fair. Trade magazine advertising Wireless Dealer Magazine, Prepaid Press, Wireless Industry Association Direct mailings, print and local newspapers. Sales Force / Distributors / Direct Retailers The Company believes that direct selling and one-on-one relationships in addition to in-depth product and competitive landscape knowledge are important factors in the marketing of the products that the Company sells. Accordingly, the Company promotes relationship building and maintenance through personal contact, advertising in industry-centric publications, both print and on-line, and attending the major regional and national carrier shows. The Company currently employs 15 experienced sales professionals who are involved in distribution and market to existing and potential customers in their respective assigned territories. They do this through both telephone and e-mail interaction in addition to notification of special promotions. Potential new customers are located primarily through the Companys database. The company believes this approach motivates the sales professionals to achieve higher gross margin as well as greater sales numbers. In each regional location, the company plans to have 1 branch manager, 3 sales reps and 2 warehouse employees. Each regional office will have a mixture of direct sales to dealer channels and distribution through company direct sub dealer locations, as well as leveraging distributors to access additional channels. Design and Development Plans The company plans to introduce a customized branded smartphone device within 2 years, once expansion markets have stabilized. OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) White Labeling/branding a manufactured device through an existing manufacturer takes considerable time and research. In order to introduce a product into the marketplace, ODM (Original Design Manufacturer) eventually becomes necessary in order to build a product that is both unique and acceptable to the market place. The company has seen numerous OEM companies come and go. The company has been on the front lines to promote these brands, while making the conscious decision to avoid others. The experience of growing with successful OEM brands in addition to watching several other brands make mistakes and eventually fail has given us the know-how. The company has tested several prototypes from a number of manufacturers. The steps involved in developing a prototype include: Select Manufacturing Plant in China Corporate Due Diligence on Factory Compliance and Certifications Engineering and customization of existing molds Factory Capacity and availability of parts Verification Specification and parts standards Packaging and Boxing design and accessories design Decision for OEM or ODM and agree on drawing and develop golden sample 7 In order to successfully launch brands in the North American markets, a significant amount of marketing and promoting has to be done prior to the product launch. ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties and all other information contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may also hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report included in the financial section of this report, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that our consolidated financial statements for the year ended August 31, 2015 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. However, they expressed substantial doubt about our ability to do so. The Company has experienced an accumulated deficit of $5,579,667 as of August 31, 2015, including a net loss of $ 1,285,046 for the year ended August 31, 2015. We also had a working capital deficit of $2,532,271 at August 31, 2015 and cash on hand of $14,601. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to increase revenues and generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, generating sales, or obtaining financing from various financial institutions where possible. By adjusting our operations and development to the level of capitalization, we believe that we have sufficient capital resources to meet projected near-term cash flow requirements. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient liquidity from operations or in raising sufficient capital resources, on terms acceptable to us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. There can be no assurances that our efforts will prove successful. The Companys consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Insufficient systems capacity or systems failures could harm our business. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the computer and communications systems supporting it. Notwithstanding our current capacity, heavy use of our computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. If our systems cannot be expanded successfully to handle increased demand, or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in service, slower response times, and delays in introducing new products and services. Our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, and similar events. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our revenues. We also rely on a number of third parties for systems support. Any interruption in these third-party services or deterioration in the performance of these services could also be disruptive to our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the likelihood that services provided by third parties may be interrupted. We have not voluntarily implemented various corporate governance measures, in the absence of which, stockholders may have more limited protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. Certain federal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in the adoption of various corporate governance measures designed to promote the integrity of the corporate management and the securities markets. Some of these measures have been adopted in response to legal requirements. Others have been adopted by companies in response to the requirements of national securities exchanges, such as the NYSE or The Nasdaq Stock Market, on which their securities are listed. Among the corporate governance measures that are required under the rules of national securities exchanges are those that address board of directors independence, audit committee oversight, and the adoption of a code of ethics. We have not adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics nor have we yet adopted any other corporate governance measures and, since our securities are not listed on a national securities exchange, we are not required to do so. We have not adopted corporate governance measures such as an audit or other independent committees of our Board of Directors. Prospective investors should bear in mind our current lack of corporate governance measures in formulating their investment decisions. 8 Our internal controls over financial reporting, and our disclosure