ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the heading "Forward-Looking Information" and "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors." Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States ("U.S.") Dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP"). Organic net sales growth and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures which are discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures, together with GAAP financial measures, provide useful information to investors because they reflect the financial measures that management uses in evaluating the underlying results of our operations. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for more information about these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including the measures and material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures. Overview TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity" or the "Company," which may be referred to as "we," "us," or "our") is a world leader in connectivity. We design and manufacture products to connect power, data, and signal in a broad array of industries including automotive, energy, industrial, broadband communications, consumer devices, healthcare, and aerospace and defense. We help our customers solve the need for more energy efficiency, always-on communications, and ever-increasing productivity. Effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we realigned certain businesses, principally the Relay Products business, within our segment reporting structure to better align our product portfolio. The Relay Products business, which was previously included in the Consumer Solutions segment, has been moved to the Industrial Solutions segment. We continue to operate through four reporting segments: Transportation Solutions, Industrial Solutions, Network Solutions, and Consumer Solutions. See Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our segments. Prior period segment results have been restated to conform to the current segment reporting structure. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. Our sales are dependent on certain industry end markets that are impacted by consumer as well as industrial and infrastructure spending, and our operating results can be affected by changes in demand in those markets. Overall, our net sales increased 6.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. Increased net sales in the Transportation Solutions segment and, to a lesser degree, the Industrial Solutions segment were partially offset by modest declines in the Network Solutions and Consumer Solutions segments. On an organic basis, net sales increased 7.2% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. In the Transportation Solutions segment, our sales in the automotive end market increased 13.9% on an organic basis, with sales increases in the Asia-Pacific, Americas, and EMEA regions. In the Industrial Solutions segment, our organic net sales increased 6.2% with growth in all end markets. In the Consumer Solutions and Network Solutions segments, our organic net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 increased slightly 30 Table of Contents from first quarter fiscal 2013 levels. In the Consumer Solutions segment, our organic net sales growth in the appliances end market was offset by declines in the consumer devices end market. Also, in the Network Solutions segment, our organic net sales growth in the telecom networks and enterprise networks end markets was offset by declines in the subsea communications and data communications end markets. Outlook In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we expect net sales to be between $3.4 billion and $3.5 billion. This reflects sales increases of approximately 10% to 12% in the Transportation Solutions segment and approximately 5% to 7% in the Industrial Solutions segment, partially offset by sales decreases of approximately 3% to 4% in the Consumer Solutions segment. In the Network Solutions segment, we expect our sales to be consistent with second quarter fiscal 2013 levels. In the Transportation Solutions segment, we expect our sales growth to outpace anticipated growth in global automotive production of approximately 5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. In the Industrial Solutions segment, we expect our sales to increase in the industrial equipment end market and, to a lesser degree, in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market. We expect those increases to be partially offset by a decline in our sales in the energy end market in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013. In the Consumer Solutions segment, we expect our sales to decline in the consumer devices end market, with this decline partially offset by an increase in our sales in the appliances end market in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. In the Network Solutions segment, we expect our sales increases in the telecom networks end market and, to a lesser degree, the enterprise networks end market to be offset by decreased sales in the data communications and subsea communications end markets in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. We expect diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.86 to $0.90 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2014. For fiscal 2014, we expect net sales to be between $13.8 billion and $14.2 billion, reflecting expected sales increases of approximately 10% in the Transportation Solutions segment and approximately 4% to 6% in the Industrial Solutions segment. We expect our sales in the Network Solutions and Consumer Solutions segments to be consistent with fiscal 2013 levels. In the Transportation Solutions segment, we expect our sales growth to outpace anticipated growth in global automotive production of approximately 4% from fiscal 2013 levels. In the Industrial Solutions segment, we expect our sales to increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas and industrial equipment end markets and to decline slightly in the energy end market in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. In the Network Solutions segment, we expect our sales increases in the telecom networks and, to a lesser degree, the subsea communications and enterprise networks end markets to be offset by a sales decrease in the data communications end market in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. In the Consumer Solutions segment, we expect our sales increase in the appliances end market to be offset by a sales decrease in the consumer devices end market. We expect diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.80 per share in fiscal 2014. The above outlook is based on foreign exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels. We are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. Additionally, we continue to closely manage our costs in line with economic conditions. We also are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. (See further discussion in "Liquidity and Capital Resources.") 31 Table of Contents Restructuring We plan to continue to simplify our global manufacturing footprint by migrating facilities from higher-cost to lower-cost countries, consolidating within countries, and transferring product lines to lower-cost countries. These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for growth in the years ahead. In connection with these initiatives and in response to market conditions, we incurred net restructuring charges of $7 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and expect to incur net restructuring charges of approximately $50 million during fiscal 2014. Cash spending related to restructuring was $45 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2014, and we expect total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately $175 million in fiscal 2014. Annualized cost savings related to these actions are expected to be approximately $115 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2015. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses. Results of Operations Key business factors that influenced our results of operations for the periods discussed in this report include: Raw material prices. We expect to purchase approximately 173 million pounds of copper, 136,000 troy ounces of gold, and 2.5 million troy ounces of silver in fiscal 2014. Prices continue to fluctuate. The following table sets forth the average prices incurred related to copper, gold, and silver. Copper Lb. $ 3.38 $ 3.57 Gold Troy oz. $ 1,461 $ 1,678 Silver Troy oz. $ 25.22 $ 31.63 Foreign exchange. Approximately 53% of our net sales are invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Our results of operations are influenced by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. Dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. Dollars at the end of each fiscal period. Consolidated Operations Net Sales. Net sales increased $192 million, or 6.1%, to $3,326 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from $3,134 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. On an organic basis, net sales increased $226 million, or 7.2%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from the first quarter of fiscal 2013 due primarily to increased net sales in the Transportation Solutions segment and, to a lesser degree, the Industrial Solutions segment. Price erosion adversely affected organic sales by $61 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted net sales by $11 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. See further discussion of organic net sales below under "Results of Operations by Segment." 32 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage of our total net sales by geographic region: Europe/Middle East/Africa ("EMEA") 35 % 33 % Asia-Pacific 34 34 Americas 31 33 Total 100 % 100 % The following table provides an analysis of the change in our net sales by geographic region: EMEA $ 67 6.5 % $ 47 $ (5 ) $ 109 10.5 % Asia-Pacific 123 11.5 (48 ) (16 ) 59 5.5 Americas 36 3.6 (10 ) (2 ) 24 2.4 Total $ 226 7.2 % $ (11 ) $ (23 ) $ 192 6.1 % (1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The following table sets forth the percentage of our total net sales by segment: Transportation Solutions 43 % 40 % Industrial Solutions 23 23 Network Solutions 22 24 Consumer Solutions 12 13 Total 100 % 100 % The following table provides an analysis of the change in our net sales by segment: Transportation Solutions $ 176 13.9 % $ $ $ 176 13.9 % Industrial Solutions 45 6.2 2 (4 ) 43 6.0 Network Solutions 1 0.2 (3 ) (19 ) (21 ) (2.9 ) Consumer Solutions 4 0.7 (10 ) (6 ) (1.4 ) Total $ 226 7.2 % $ (11 ) $ (23 ) $ 192 6.1 % (1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 33 Table of Contents Gross Margin. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, gross margin was $1,117 million, reflecting a $128 million increase from gross margin of $989 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The increase in gross margin resulted primarily from improved manufacturing productivity, higher volume and, to a lesser degree, lower material costs, partially offset by price erosion. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from 31.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $39 million to $467 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from $428 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The increase resulted primarily from increased selling expenses to support higher sales levels and increased incentive compensation costs, partially offset by cost savings attributable to restructuring actions. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 14.0% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from 13.7% in the same period of fiscal 2013. Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. Net restructuring and other charges were $7 million and $92 million in the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. During fiscal 2014, we initiated a restructuring program and commenced actions to reduce headcount in the Network Solutions and Consumer Solutions segments. During fiscal 2013, we initiated a restructuring program associated with headcount reductions and manufacturing site closures impacting all segments. See Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges. Operating Income. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, operating income was $479 million as compared to $293 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 included $7 million of net restructuring and other charges. Results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 included $92 million of net restructuring and other charges and $5 million of acquisition and integration costs. See further discussion of operating income below under "Results of Operations by Segment." Non-Operating Items Other Income (Expense), Net. During the quarter ended December 27, 2013, we recorded net other income of $32 million primarily consisting of income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco International") and Covidien plc ("Covidien"). This amount included $18 million of income related to our share of a settlement agreement entered into by Tyco International with a former subsidiary, CIT Group Inc., which arose from a pre-separation claim for which we were entitled to 31% once resolved. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Tax Sharing Agreement. During the quarter ended December 28, 2012, we recorded net other expense of $226 million, including $231 million related to the effective settlement of all undisputed tax matters for the period 1997 through 2000. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. We recorded a tax provision of $127 million and a tax benefit of $245 million for the quarters ended December 27, 2013 and December 28, 2012, respectively. The provision for the quarter ended December 27, 2013 reflects an income tax charge related to the impacts of certain non-U.S. tax law changes and the associated increase in the valuation allowance for tax loss carryforwards, and charges related to adjustments to prior year income tax returns. The tax benefit for the quarter ended December 28, 2012 reflects a $331 million income tax benefit related to the effective settlement of all undisputed tax matters for the period 1997 through 2000, partially offset by charges related to adjustments to prior year income tax returns and the estimated impacts of certain intercompany dividends. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Segment Transportation Solutions Net sales $ 1,440 $ 1,264 Operating income $ 296 $ 192 Operating margin 20.6 % 15.2 % Net sales and organic net sales in the Transportation Solutions segment increased $176 million, or 13.9%, to $1,440 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from $1,264 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. In the automotive end market, which is the Transportation Solutions segment's primary industry end market, our organic net sales increased 13.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The increase resulted from growth of 16.9% in the Asia-Pacific region, 14.9% in the Americas region, and 10.8% in the EMEA region. In the Asia-Pacific region, growth was driven by increasing demand in China and Japan, partially offset by declines in certain southeastern Asia-Pacific areas. Growth in the Americas region was driven by strong consumer demand in North America. In the EMEA region, growth resulted primarily from increased exports to other regions and, to a lesser degree, increased automotive demand in the western and continental EMEA region. In the commercial vehicle market, our organic net sales increase was due to stronger market conditions and the acceleration of purchases in advance of upcoming emission standard changes in the EMEA region and China truck markets. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, operating income in the Transportation Solutions segment increased $104 million to $296 million from $192 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Segment results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 included $1 million of net restructuring and other charges. Segment results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 included $10 million of net restructuring and other charges and $3 million of acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of Deutsch Group SAS ("Deutsch"). Excluding these items, operating income increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The increase resulted primarily from higher volume and, to a lesser degree, improved manufacturing productivity and lower material costs, partially offset by price erosion. Industrial Solutions Net sales $ 763 $ 720 Operating income $ 99 $ 72 Operating margin 13.0 % 10.0 % 35 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the Industrial Solutions segment's percentage of total net sales by primary industry end market (1) : Industrial Equipment 42 % 41 % Aerospace, Defense, Oil, and Gas 33 33 Energy 25 26 Total 100 % 100 % (1) Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary. The following table provides an analysis of the change in the Industrial Solutions segment's net sales by primary industry end market: Industrial Equipment $ 28 9.5 % $ (1 ) $ $ 27 9.2 % Aerospace, Defense, Oil, and Gas 9 3.5 1 10 4.2 Energy 8 4.4 2 (4 ) 6 3.2 Total $ 45 6.2 % $ 2 $ (4 ) $ 43 6.0 % (1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Net sales in the Industrial Solutions segment increased $43 million, or 6.0%, to $763 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from $720 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The strengthening of certain foreign currencies positively affected net sales by $2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Organic net sales increased $45 million, or 6.2%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. In the industrial equipment end market, our organic net sales increased 9.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013 due to recovery in most end markets, particularly in the Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions. In the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market, our organic net sales increased 3.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The increase was attributable to increased production in the commercial aviation market and growth resulting from increased oil and gas exploration, partially offset by a slowdown in defense spending in North America. In the energy end market, our organic net sales increased 4.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from the first quarter of fiscal 2013 as a result of increased project activity in the Asia-Pacific region and growth in the EMEA region. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, operating income in the Industrial Solutions segment increased $27 million to $99 million from $72 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Segment results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 included $1 million of net restructuring and other charges. Segment results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 included $12 million of net restructuring and other charges and $2 million of acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of Deutsch. Excluding these items, operating income increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of 36 Table of Contents fiscal 2013. The increase was due to higher volume, lower material costs and, improved manufacturing productivity, partially offset by price erosion. Network Solutions Net sales $ 713 $ 734 Operating income $ 46 $ 36 Operating margin 6.5 % 4.9 % The following table sets forth the Network Solutions segment's percentage of total net sales by primary industry end market (1) : Telecom Networks 44 % 38 % Data Communications 23 27 Enterprise Networks 21 20 Subsea Communications 12 15 Total 100 % 100 % (1) Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary. The following table provides an analysis of the change in the Network Solutions segment's net sales by primary industry end market: Telecom Networks $ 31 10.9 % $ 1 $ $ 32 11.4 % Data Communications (16 ) (8.2 ) (19 ) (35 ) (17.6 ) Enterprise Networks 9 5.9 (4 ) 5 3.4 Subsea Communications (23 ) (21.1 ) (23 ) (21.3 ) Total $ 1 0.2 % $ (3 ) $ (19 ) $ (21 ) (2.9 )% (1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, net sales in the Network Solutions segment decreased $21 million, or 2.9%, to $713 million from $734 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The weakening of certain foreign currencies negatively affected net sales by $3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Organic net sales were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. In the telecom networks end market, our organic net sales increased 10.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013 as a result of growth in the fiber business in 37 Table of Contents the EMEA region. In the data communications end market, our organic net sales decreased 8.2% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from the first quarter of fiscal 2013 as a result of market weakness, particularly in the EMEA region, and the exit of certain product lines. In the enterprise networks end market, our organic net sales increased 5.9% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The increase was attributable to strong market demand in the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions. The subsea communications end market's organic net sales decreased 21.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013 as a result of lower levels of project activity. Operating income in the Network Solutions segment increased $10 million to $46 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from $36 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Segment results included $5 million and $24 million of net restructuring and other charges in the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Excluding these items, operating income decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The decrease resulted from price erosion and increased material costs, partially offset by improved manufacturing productivity and higher volume. Consumer Solutions Net sales $ 410 $ 416 Operating income (loss) $ 38 $ (7 ) Operating margin 9.3 % NM (1) (1) Not meaningful. The following table sets forth the Consumer Solutions segment's percentage of total net sales by primary industry end market (1) : Consumer Devices 63 % 66 % Appliances 37 34 Total 100 % 100 % (1) Industry end market information is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary. 38 Table of Contents The following table provides an analysis of the change in the Consumer Solutions segment's net sales by primary industry end market: Consumer Devices $ (9 ) (3.3 )% $ (8 ) $ (17 ) (6.2 )% Appliances 13 8.3 (2 ) 11 7.8 Total $ 4 0.7 % $ (10 ) $ (6 ) (1.4 )% (1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, net sales in the Consumer Solutions segment decreased $6 million, or 1.4%, to $410 million from $416 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The weakening of certain foreign currencies negatively affected net sales by $10 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Organic net sales increased $4 million, or 0.7%, during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. In the consumer devices end market, our organic net sales decreased 3.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from the first quarter of fiscal 2013 due to significant declines in the personal computer market, partially offset by increased demand and new product launches in the mobile phone and tablet computer markets. In the appliances end market, our organic net sales increased 8.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2013. Strong demand in the Asia-Pacific region and, to a lesser degree, the Americas region was partially offset by declines in the EMEA region resulting from the strategic exit of certain product lines. Consumer Solutions segment had operating income of $38 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to an operating loss of $7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Segment results included $46 million of net restructuring and other charges in the first quarter 2013. Excluding these items, operating income was flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The impact of price erosion and lower volume was offset by improved manufacturing productivity and lower material costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table summarizes our cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities, as reflected on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 385 $ 392 Net cash used in investing activities (123 ) (105 ) Net cash used in financing activities (262 ) (905 ) Effect of currency translation on cash (6 ) 1 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (6 ) $ (617 ) Our ability to fund our future capital needs will be affected by our ability to continue to generate cash from operations and may be affected by our ability to access the capital markets, money markets, 39 Table of Contents or other sources of funding, as well as the capacity and terms of our financing arrangements. We believe that cash generated from operations and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future. We may use excess cash to reduce our outstanding debt, including through the possible repurchase of our debt in accordance with applicable law, to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to pay distributions or dividends on our common shares, or to acquire strategic businesses or product lines. The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions. We will continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions. Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, net cash provided by continuing operating activities decreased $6 million to $387 million from $393 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The decrease resulted primarily from increased inventory levels and higher restructuring- and incentive-related cash usage, partially offset by higher earnings and decreased tax payments. The amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 was $56 million and $84 million, respectively. During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we made payments of $35 million for tax deficiencies related to pre-separation U.S. tax matters for the years 1997 through 2000. No payments or receipts occurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 for pre-separation tax matters. We expect to make net cash payments related to pre-separation tax matters of approximately $200 million during the next twelve months. These amounts include payments in which we are the primary obligor to the taxing authorities and for which we expect a portion to be reimbursed by Tyco International and Covidien under the Tax Sharing Agreement as well as indemnification payments to Tyco International and Covidien under the Tax Sharing Agreement for tax matters where they are the primary obligor to the taxing authorities. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to pre-separation tax matters. In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, we use free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as a useful measure of our ability to generate cash. Free cash flow was $266 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared to $304 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The decrease in free cash flow was primarily driven by increased inventory levels and higher restructuring- and incentive-related cash usage, partially offset by higher earnings. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net cash provided by continuing operating activities, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities $ 387 $ 393 Capital expenditures (133 ) (126 ) Proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 12 2 Payments related to pre-separation U.S. tax matters, net 35 Free cash flow $ 266 $ 304 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Capital spending increased $7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to $133 million as compared to $126 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. We expect fiscal 2014 capital spending levels to be approximately 4% to 5% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to 40 Table of Contents support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities and Capitalization Total debt at December 27, 2013 and September 27, 2013 was $2,998 million and $3,014 million, respectively. See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. During November 2013, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. ("TEGSA"), our 100%-owned subsidiary, redeemed all of its outstanding 5.95% senior notes due 2014, representing $300 million principal amount. We paid an immaterial premium in connection with the early redemption. During November 2013, TEGSA issued $325 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% senior notes due December 17, 2018. The notes are TEGSA's unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur. The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed as to payment on an unsecured senior basis by TE Connectivity Ltd. TEGSA has a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility ("Credit Facility") with total commitments of $1,500 million. This facility expires in August 2018. TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at December 27, 2013 and September 27, 2013. The Credit Facility contains a financial ratio covenant providing that if, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, our ratio of Consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the Credit Facility) to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeds 3.75 to 1.0, an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Facility) is triggered. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of December 27, 2013, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future. In addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under the outstanding senior notes and commercial paper. TEGSA's payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd. Neither TE Connectivity Ltd. nor any of its subsidiaries provides a guarantee as to payment obligations under the 3.50% convertible subordinated notes due 2015 issued by ADC Telecommunications, Inc. prior to its acquisition in December 2010. Payments of common share dividends and cash distributions to shareholders were $103 million and $89 million in the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. We paid a cash dividend of $0.25 per share to shareholders out of contributed surplus in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1 billion in the share repurchase program. We repurchased approximately four million of our common shares for $212 million and approximately five million of our common shares for $178 million under our share repurchase authorization during the quarters ended December 27, 2013 and December 28, 2012, respectively. At December 27, 2013, we had $1,267 million of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization. 41 Table of Contents Backlog At December 27, 2013, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $2,688 million compared to a backlog of $2,569 at September 27, 2013. Backlog by reportable segment was as follows: Transportation Solutions $ 1,032 $ 996 Industrial Solutions 877 791 Network Solutions 502 475 Consumer Solutions 277 307 Total $ 2,688 $ 2,569 Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including patent infringement claims, product liability matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements, other commercial disputes, environmental matters, antitrust claims, and tax matters, including non-income tax matters such as value added tax, sales and use tax, real estate tax, and transfer tax. Management believes that these legal proceedings and claims likely will be resolved over an extended period of time. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. However, the proceedings discussed below in "Income Tax Matters" could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. At December 27, 2013, we had a contingent purchase price commitment of $80 million related to our fiscal 2001 acquisition of Com-Net. This represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of Com-Net only after the construction and installation of a communications system was completed for and approved by the State of Florida in accordance with guidelines set forth in the contract. Under the terms of the purchase and sale agreement, we do not believe we have any obligation to the sellers. However, the sellers have contested our position and initiated a lawsuit in June 2006 in the Court of Common Pleas in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, which is in the discovery phase. A liability for this contingency has not been recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as we do not believe that any payment is probable at this time. Income Tax Matters Effective June 29, 2007, we became the parent company of the former electronics businesses of Tyco International. On June 29, 2007, Tyco International distributed all of our shares, as well as its shares of its former healthcare businesses ("Covidien"), to its common shareholders (the "separation"). In connection with our separation from Tyco International in 2007, we entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement that generally governs our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the distribution of all of our shares or the shares of Covidien to qualify as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs to qualify for tax-favored treatment under the Code. 42 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, upon separation, we entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with Tyco International and Covidien. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we, Tyco International, and Covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved pre-separation tax matters of Tyco International. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Tax Sharing Agreement. During fiscal 2007, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") concluded its field examination of certain of Tyco International's U.S. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000 and issued Revenue Agent Reports that reflected the IRS' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the 1997 through 2000 period. Additionally, the IRS proposed civil fraud penalties against Tyco International arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with certain intercompany transfers of stock in 1998 and 1999. The penalties were asserted against a prior subsidiary of Tyco International that was distributed to us in connection with the separation. Tyco International appealed certain of the proposed adjustments for the years 1997 through 2000, and Tyco International resolved all but one of the matters associated with the proposed tax adjustments, including reaching an agreement with the IRS on the penalty adjustment in the amount of $21 million. In October 2012, the IRS issued special agreement Forms 870-AD, effectively settling its audit of all tax matters for the period 1997 through 2000, excluding one issue that remains in dispute as described below. As a result of these developments, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we recognized an income tax benefit of $331 million and other expense of $231 million pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien. The disputed issue involves the tax treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions. The IRS field examination asserted that certain intercompany loans originating during the period 1997 through 2000 did not constitute debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes and disallowed approximately $2.7 billion of related interest deductions recognized during the period on Tyco International's U.S. income tax returns. In addition, if the IRS is ultimately successful in asserting its claim, it is likely to disallow an additional $6.6 billion of interest deductions reflected on U.S. income tax returns in years subsequent to fiscal 2000. Tyco International contends that the intercompany financing qualified as debt for U.S. tax purposes and that the interest deductions reflected on the income tax returns are appropriate. The IRS and Tyco International were unable to resolve this matter through the IRS appeals process. On June 20, 2013, Tyco International advised us that it had received Notices of Deficiency from the IRS for certain former U.S. subsidiaries of Tyco International increasing taxable income by approximately $2.9 billion in connection with the audit of Tyco International's fiscal years 1997 through 2000. The Notices of Deficiency assert that Tyco International owes additional taxes totaling $778 million, associated penalties of $154 million, and withholding taxes of $105 million. In addition, Tyco International received Final Partnership Administrative Adjustments for certain U.S. partnerships owned by former U.S. subsidiaries with respect to which Tyco International estimates an additional tax deficiency of approximately $30 million will be asserted. The amounts asserted by the IRS exclude any applicable deficiency interest, and do not reflect any impact to subsequent period tax liabilities in the event that the IRS were to prevail on some or all of its assertions. We understand that Tyco International strongly disagrees with the IRS position and has filed petitions in the U.S. Tax Court contesting the IRS' proposed adjustments. Tyco International has advised us that it believes there are meritorious defenses for the tax filings in question and that the IRS positions with regard to these matters are inconsistent with the applicable tax laws and existing U.S. Treasury regulations. Resolution of this matter in the U.S. Tax Court could take several years and no payments to the IRS with respect to these matters would be required until the matter is fully and finally resolved. In accordance with the terms of a tax sharing agreement, we, Tyco International, and Covidien would share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any payments made in connection with these matters. 43 Table of Contents However, as the ultimate outcome is uncertain and if the IRS were to prevail on its assertions, our share of the assessed tax, deficiency interest, and applicable withholding taxes and penalties could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We have reviewed the Notices of Deficiency, the relevant facts surrounding the intercompany debt transactions, relevant tax regulations, and applicable case law, and we continue to believe that we are appropriately reserved for this matter. Tyco International's income tax returns for the years 2001 through 2004 remain subject to adjustment by the IRS upon ultimate resolution of the disputed issue involving certain intercompany loans originated during the period 1997 through 2000. For the undisputed issues for years 2001 through 2004, it is our understanding that Tyco International expects the IRS to issue general agreement Forms 870 during fiscal 2014. The IRS commenced its audit of certain Tyco International income tax returns for the years 2005 through 2007 in fiscal 2011, and it is our understanding that fieldwork for this audit period is expected to be completed in fiscal 2014. Also, during fiscal 2012, the IRS commenced its audit of our income tax returns for the years 2008 through 2010. We expect fieldwork for the 2008 through 2010 audit to conclude in fiscal 2014. Over the next twelve months, we expect to make net cash payments of approximately $200 million in connection with pre-separation tax matters. At December 27, 2013 and September 27, 2013, we have reflected $47 million and $15 million, respectively, of income tax liabilities related to the audits of Tyco International's and our income tax returns in accrued and other current liabilities as certain of these matters could be resolved within the next twelve months. We believe that the amounts recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements relating to the matters discussed above are appropriate. However, the ultimate resolution is uncertain and could result in a material impact to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In certain instances, we have guaranteed the performance of third parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2014 through the completion of such transactions. The guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance, and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. In disposing of assets or businesses, we often provide representations, warranties, and/or indemnities to cover various risks including unknown damage to assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability for investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. At December 27, 2013, we had outstanding letters of credit and letters of guarantee in the amount of $292 million. We have recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these liabilities. In the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. In the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 44 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, upon separation, we entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with Tyco International and Covidien. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we, Tyco International, and Covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved pre-separation tax matters of Tyco International. The effect of the Tax Sharing Agreement is to indemnify us for 69% of certain liabilities settled in cash by us with respect to unresolved pre-separation tax matters. Pursuant to that indemnification, we have made similar indemnifications to Tyco International and Covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled in cash by the companies relating to unresolved pre-separation tax matters. If any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, we would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. These arrangements have been valued upon our separation from Tyco International in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 460, Guarantees , and, accordingly, liabilities amounting to $223 million were recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 27, 2013. See Notes 7 and 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our accounting policies for revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, pension and postretirement benefits, acquisitions, and contingent liabilities are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management. During the quarter ended December 27, 2013, there were no significant changes to these policies or to the underlying accounting assumptions and estimates used in these policies from those disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2013. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Organic Net Sales Growth Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure. The difference between reported net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and organic net sales growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions, and divestitures. Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of the underlying results and trends in our business. It excludes items that are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity. We believe organic net sales growth provides useful information to investors because it reflects the underlying growth from the ongoing activities of our business. Furthermore, it provides investors with a view of our operations from management's perspective. We use organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance, as it is an important measure of the underlying results of our operations. Management uses organic net sales growth together with GAAP measures such as net sales growth and operating income in its decision making processes related to the operations of our reporting segments and our overall company. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations. The discussion and analysis of organic net sales growth in "Results of Operations" above utilizes organic net sales growth as management does internally. Because organic net sales growth calculations may vary among other companies, organic net 45 Table of Contents sales growth amounts presented above may not be comparable with similarly titled measures of other companies. Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure that is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP measures. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on our net sales. This limitation is best addressed by evaluating organic net sales growth in combination with our GAAP net sales. The tables presented in "Results of Operations" above provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated under GAAP. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. The difference between net cash provided by continuing operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and free cash flow (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows and inflows that we believe are useful to identify. Free cash flow is a useful measure of our ability to generate cash. It also is a significant component in our incentive compensation plans. We believe free cash flow provides useful information to investors as it provides insight into the primary cash flow metric used by management to monitor and evaluate cash flows generated from our operations. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by continuing operating activities excluding voluntary pension contributions and the cash impact of special items, minus net capital expenditures. Net capital expenditures consist of capital expenditures less proceeds from the sale of property, plant, and equipment. They are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments. Voluntary pension contributions are excluded from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity. Certain special items, including net payments related to pre-separation tax matters, also are considered by management in evaluating free cash flow. We believe investors should also consider these items in evaluating our free cash flow. Free cash flow as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on our GAAP cash flow. Also, it subtracts certain cash items that are ultimately within management's and the board of directors' discretion to direct and may imply that there is less or more cash available for our programs than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. This limitation is best addressed by using free cash flow in combination with the GAAP cash flow results. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for future discretionary expenditures, as our definition of free cash flow does not consider certain non-discretionary expenditures, such as debt payments. In addition, we may have other discretionary expenditures, such as discretionary dividends, share repurchases, and business acquisitions, that are not considered in the calculation of free cash flow. The tables presented in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above provide reconciliations of free cash flow to cash flows from continuing operating activities calculated under GAAP. Forward-Looking Information Certain statements in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," 46 Table of Contents "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," "may," "should," or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. The following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors," in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2013, could also cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements: conditions in the global or regional economies and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions; conditions affecting demand for products in the industries we serve, particularly the automotive industry; competition and pricing pressure; market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations and product life cycles; raw material availability, quality, and cost; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; financial condition and consolidation of customers and vendors; reliance on third-party suppliers; risks associated with future acquisitions and divestitures; global risks of business interruptions such as natural disasters and political, economic, and military instability; risks related to compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; risks of litigation; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by our debt instruments; risks relating to our separation on June 29, 2007 from Tyco International Ltd.; the possible effects on us of various U.S. and non-U.S. legislative proposals and other initiatives that, if adopted, could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate and negatively impact our U.S. government contracts business; various risks associated with being a Swiss corporation; the impact of fluctuations in the market price of our shares; and the impact of certain provisions of our articles of association on unsolicited takeover proposals. There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. 47 Table of Contents