Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our shares of Common Stock would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are applicable to Outbrain, Teads and the combined company, unless otherwise specified. The risk factors applicable to legacy Teads are set forth in the Companys definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on October 31, 2024 are hereby incorporated by reference in this Report. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of some of the principal risks we face: Our ability to successfully integrate Teads or manage the Company effectively; Our ability to realize synergies and other benefits of the Acquisition, including, among other things, operating efficiencies, revenue synergies and cost savings; Our due diligence investigation of Teads may be inadequate or risks related to Teads business may materialize; Unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the Acquisition; The outcome of any securities litigation, stockholder derivative or other litigation related to the Acquisition; The Company may need to raise additional financing in the future to fund its operations, which may not be available to it on favorable terms or at all; The market price of the Common Stock is expected to be volatile, and the market price of the Common Stock may drop, following the Acquisition; The Companys internal control over financial reporting may not meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; The Companys ability to attract and retain customers, management and other key personnel; Our revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on overall advertising demand and spending and traffic generated by our media partners; The impact on advertising demand and spend of factors such as the continuation or worsening of unfavorable economic or business conditions or downturns and instability in the financial markets; A failure to grow or to manage growth effectively may cause the quality of our platform and solutions to suffer; Our sales and marketing efforts may require significant investments and, in certain cases, involve long sales cycles; Our research and development efforts may not meet the demands of a rapidly evolving technology market; The digital advertising industry is intensely competitive and we must effectively compete against current and future competitors; Loss of media partners could have a significant impact on our revenue and results of operations; Growth in our business may place demands on our infrastructure and resources; The failure of our recommendation engine to accurately predict user engagement; If the quality of our recommendations deteriorates, or if we fail to present interesting content to our users, we may experience a decline in user engagement, which could result in the loss of media partners; Limitations on our ability to collect, use, and disclose data to deliver advertisements; 16 Table of Contents The potential impact of AI on our industry and our need to invest in AI-based solutions; Our failure or the failure of third parties to protect our sites, networks and systems against security breaches, or otherwise to protect the confidential information of us or our partners; Outages or disruptions that impact us or our service providers, resulting from cyber incidents, or failures or loss of our infrastructure; and Political and regulatory risks in the various markets in which we operate and the challenges of compliance with differing and changing regulatory requirements. Risks Related to the Acquisition If our due diligence investigation of Teads was inadequate or if risks related to Teads business materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our stockholders investment. While we conducted a due diligence investigation of Teads, we cannot be sure that our diligence surfaced all material issues or liabilities that may be present inside Teads or its business, or that it would be possible to uncover all material issues or liabilities, or that factors outside of Teads and its business and outside of its control will not arise later. If any such material issues or liabilities arise, they may materially and adversely impact the ongoing business of the Company and our stockholders investment. Outbrain and Teads are, and may become involved in additional securities litigation, stockholder derivative or other litigation in connection with the Acquisition, and this could divert the attention of Outbrain and Teads management and harm the Companys business, and insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all related costs and damages. Securities litigation or stockholder derivative litigation frequently follows the announcement of certain significant business transactions, such as a material acquisition like the Acquisition. Outbrain and Teads are involved in this type of litigation in connection with the Acquisition and may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. The outcome of any such litigation is uncertain, and any such potential lawsuits could result in substantial costs. Litigation often is expensive and diverts managements attention and resources. Further, the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remained unresolved at the time the Acquisition could adversely affect the business of the Company, and insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all related costs and damages. Risks Related to the Company After the Acquisition Closing Outbrain will incur significant transaction and integration-related costs in connection with the Acquisition and may not be able to integrate Teads successfully or manage the combined business effectively, and many of the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Acquisition may not be realized or may not be realized within the expected time frame. The Acquisition involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent companies. Outbrain consummated the Acquisition with the expectation that the Acquisition would result in various benefits, including, among other things, operating efficiencies, revenue synergies and cost savings. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Outbrain and Teads can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. It is possible that the Company may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, the integration process could take longer than anticipated, be more costly than expected or that the management of the combined organization and achievement of anticipated synergies could be more difficult than expected. The integration process could result in the disruption of ongoing businesses, processes, systems and business relationships or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could have an adverse effect on Outbrains ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. The integration process is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could adversely affect Outbrains future businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, Outbrain will incur significant transaction costs related to the Acquisition, including investment banking, legal and accounting fees, and significant integration-related fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans which cannot be accurately estimated at this time. Actual transaction costs may substantially exceed estimates and may have an 17 Table of Contents adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Unfavorable global economic conditions could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations. The Companys results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could result in a variety of risks to the Companys business, including weakened demand for the Companys products and services and the Companys ability to raise additional capital when needed on acceptable terms, if at all. A weak or declining economy could also strain the Companys suppliers, possibly resulting in supply disruption, or cause the Companys customers to delay making payments for its services. Any of the foregoing could harm the Companys business and the Company cannot anticipate all of the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact its business. The Company may need to raise additional financing in the future to fund its operations, which may not be available to it on favorable terms or at all. Following the Acquisition, the Company will need to fund its ongoing working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other financing requirements. We expect that the Company will fund these requirements through its cash flows from operations and the borrowings under its existing credit facility. However, in the future, the Company may require additional sources of financing to fund its operations. Raising additional capital may be costly or difficult to obtain and could significantly dilute stockholders ownership interests or inhibit the Companys ability to achieve its business objectives. If the Company raises additional funds through public or private equity offerings, the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of its Common Stock holders. Additionally, to the extent that the Company raises additional capital through the sale of Common Stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into Common Stock, its stockholders ownership interest in the Company will be diluted. Further, any debt financing may subject the Company to fixed payment obligations and covenants limiting or restricting its ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, making investments and certain payments or declaring and paying dividends. The market price of the Common Stock may decline as a result of the Acquisition. The market price of the Common Stock may decline as a result of the Acquisition for a number of reasons, including if: the Company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; the effect of the Acquisition on the Companys business and prospects is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; the transaction costs related to the Acquisition are greater than expected; or investors react negatively to the effect on the Companys business and prospects from the Acquisition. The market price of the Common Stock is expected to be volatile, and the market price of the Common Stock may drop following the Acquisition. The market price of the Common Stock following the closing of the Acquisition could be subject to significant fluctuations. The results of operations of the Company, and the market price of the Common Stock after the Acquisition Closing may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the results of operations of each of Outbrain and Teads on a standalone basis. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of the Common Stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. If not dismissed, settled or otherwise resolved, the Company will need to defend any such action. Even if the Company is successful in defending against this action or any similar claims that may be 18 Table of Contents brought in the future, such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Companys business. Additionally, a decrease in the stock price of the Company may cause the Common Stock to no longer satisfy the continued listing standards of Nasdaq. If the Company is not able to maintain the requirements for listing on Nasdaq, it could be delisted, which could have a materially adverse effect on its ability to raise additional funds as well as the price and liquidity of the Common Stock. The Companys internal control over financial reporting may not meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business and share price. The Company will be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of Nasdaq. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that the Company maintain effective disclosure