Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Non-GAAP Reconciliations for definitions and reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures, such as Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, to the corresponding measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our Industry Advertising is the primary business model for digital media on the open web. In addition, advertising is also increasingly used as a key revenue driver for other Internet based businesses, such as mobile gaming and eCommerce. As a result, digital advertising not only subsidizes media consumption for billions of consumers globally, but also finances the creation of journalism, news, and entertainment, while lowering the costs to consumers of various products and services. We believe that the following industry trends are relevant to our business: Proliferation of digital media, and digital advertising, particularly across mobile environments. As mentioned above, the consumption of content continues to shift to digital and primarily to mobile devices. In order to address this change, most media providers have shifted their focus from traditional means of content delivery to digital ones, with new digital-native providers increasingly gaining attention. Advertising spend follows time spent and engagement, and mobile ad spend is expected to increase at a faster pace than digital ad spend in total. According to eMarketer, in 2021 global digital ad spend grew to $492 billion, a 29.1% year over year increase, exceeding growth expectations, and mobile ad spend grew to $369 billion, a 32.4% year over year increase. Of that, 40.2% was expected to go to search, with 55.2% expected to go to forms of display advertising, including native and video. The percentage of total media ad spending in digital was 63.0% in 2021 and is projected to be 65.9% in 2022, 68.5% in 2023, 70.3% in 2024 and 72.0% in 2025. Advertisers increasingly expect measurable impact from their digital advertising investment, often preferring to pay for outcomes rather than pay for media, according to a 2020 Jounce market outlook report. Within Digital Advertising, more engaging and user-friendly formats such as native and video represent the fastest growing segments for ad spend, outgrowing Search and traditional forms of Display, according to eMarketer. Consumer habits and expectations are changing . Consumers have grown accustomed to consuming engaging content that is personalized and curated across multiple digital formats, including social, entertainment, gaming and audio. In mobile environments, consumers habitually scroll through apps, mobile browsers and news feeds, such as those found on social media, providing continuous opportunities to deliver personalized advertising experiences. As a result, we believe that personalized and engaging digital content experiences, supported by non-intrusive ads, have become the expectation of media owners, rather than a consumer luxury. As an example, digital video remains a fast-growth category of content consumption and advertising spend and video is expected to account for more than half of all US programmatic display ad spending in 2022. Trusted editorial content is becoming increasingly important. The massive scale of content creation and distribution across social media has made it difficult to curb the creation and proliferation of factually inaccurate news and misinformation, leading to a growing distrust of user-generated social media content. In a Kantar Dimensions study published in May 2020, social media was ranked as the least trusted medium, with only 17% of consumers citing Facebook and Twitter as reputable sources of information. We believe this is a trend that will continue: a 2021 study from The Trusted Web Foundation found that visiting news outlets directly remains the most common way of consuming news online, with more than twice as many respondents citing this method as compared with engaging with links on social media. At the same time, advertisers are growing increasingly concerned about having their messages shown alongside unsavory user-generated content. According to the CMO Council, 72% of advertisers are concerned about brand integrity on social media. As a result, advertisers have become increasingly cognizant of where they spend ad dollars, seeking media environments that prioritize quality, transparency and brand safety. 6 Table of Contents Performance and ROAS are becoming increasingly important to advertisers. As digital advertising continues to consume a larger share of advertiser budgets, the ability to target advertising based on specific user interests and context, in real-time, has become increasingly important to advertisers, as it contributes to more efficient campaigns and improved ROAS. This creates demand for solutions that can adjust in real-time while measuring and optimizing for specific price and performance thresholds. As tools for targeting and tracking become more sophisticated and effective, advertisers are increasingly relying on performance pricing models to drive more measurable ROAS, for example, paying for a click (cost-per-click), lead, acquisition, download, install, or sale, instead of paying to simply display an ad which may or may not create value. According to a 2021 report by the Interactive Advertising Bureau and PwC Advisory Services LLC, the most significant and growing proportion of all internet advertising revenues have been priced on a performance basis, 67.1% in 2020 versus 62.9% in 2019. Many advertisers, including the largest brands, leverage third-party software and predictive data-driven models to meet their performance goals. In parallel, increasingly user friendly and engagement-focused formats of digital advertising have evolved to better serve advertisers seeking performance and ROAS. Data-driven decisioning delivers better experiences and outcomes. Advances in software and hardware along with the growing use of the Internet have made it possible to collect and rapidly process massive amounts of real-time data signals related to content, context and performance. Leveraging data at scale, advertising technology providers can dynamically serve content or ads that integrate seamlessly into user environments to deliver tailored, impactful experiences. The decisioning intelligence developed by leading technology providers and large Internet platforms has made advertising more engaging for users and more effective for advertisers. As a result, advertisers are increasingly focused on data-driven decisioning, making these capabilities critical for media partners, as they seek to deliver quality experiences to their users while maintaining their relevance with advertisers. The Challenge for Digital Media Owners As the pace of online content creation and consumption continues to accelerate, and competition for user attention intensifies, digital media owners must focus on their core strength: creating relevant, interesting, quality content. However, their success also depends on sustainably attracting, engaging, retaining and monetizing audiences while competing with the major soci al and aggregation plat forms, known as the walled gardens. These platforms, driven by the nature of their services and their scale, have significant resources to invest in technology and have amassed large volumes of coveted user data, enabling them to deliver highly targeted and thus effective ads alongside user generated or third-party content, helping them achieve an outsized share of the advertising market. As a result, we believe that digital media owners, whose properties are often referred to as the open web, face challenges in the following key areas: User experience. In todays dynamic, mobile-first environment, providing a high-quality user experience that addresses consumer habits and expectations is critical to attracting, engaging and retaining audiences. For example, over the past few years, consumers have grown accustomed to receiving personalized content recommendations, which are now common within the walled gardens. In addition, infinite scrolling feeds of content have also become popular, especially on mobile devices. Keeping pace with these changes, as well as other emerging products and features, represents a significant challenge to many digital media owners who lack the scale and resources required to compete. Monetization. The fragmented ecosystem of digital advertising technology intermediaries, constantly evolving landscape of ad formats and the growing sophistication of advertisers seeking measurable ROAS makes it difficult for digital media owners to develop and maintain the technology required to optimize their monetization. In addition, digital media owners often lack access to a large and diverse advertiser base. As a result, they may not benefit from the variety of ads that are necessary in order to optimize consumer engagement and thus overall monetization. Our Solution We enable digital media owners to provide their users with an experience that is personalized and relevant to their interests while generating incremental revenue through highly engaging content recommendations and relevant advertisements. Our platform is informed by large, proprietary data sets. Our recommendation engine relies on advanced artificial intelligence technology and machine learning algorithms. We leverage our scale, gained through a large number of partners and advertisers, in order to grow and enhance our data and our technology continuously. By delivering relevant content recommendations that personalize the user experience, alongside targeted ads, our platform increases and monetizes user engagement. Our technology platform forms the underlying operating system of our media partners content feeds, helping them manage and grow their business. 7 Table of Contents We focus on the long-term Our goal is to delight the user. We believe in the compounding value that is generated by increasing user engagement. As a result, we aim to delight users by recommending relevant content in order to deliver superior long-term monetization for our media partners and ourselves. Quality is fundamental. We partner with prestigious and trusted digital media owners around the world. Through our commitment to working with the most credible sources of digital media and content creators, we have created an ecosystem trusted by publishers, advertisers and users alike. Deep integrations are key. Our technology is deeply integrated with our partners systems, enabling us to roll out new products a nd features with speed. As a result, our partners gain the flexibility to capitalize on new forms of content distribution and advertising, as well as shi fting consumer preferences, empowering them to achieve their growth and monetization objectives. Transparency builds trust and alignment. By maintaining transparency on pricing, data collection and efficacy, we align our incentives with those of our partners and work to ensure their objectives are achieved, driving the long-term success of our business. Our Offering for Media Partners We provide media partners with an operating system that helps them manage and grow their businesses. Our platform and products provide the data, scale, and technology capabilities to personalize the content experience, grow audiences, maximize user engagement and monetize content. We empower media partners, enabling them to innovate their user experience by continuously introducing new features, capabilities and technologies that help optimize content delivery through personalized recommendations. We aggregate advertiser demand on behalf of media partners, providing them with critical monetization. Media partners benefit from the combined scale of technology, data and users, which we derive from the large volume of partners and advertisers that use our platform. 8 Table of Contents Our product suite for media partners, Outbrain Engage, encompasses multiple key technologies, enabling media partners to: Delight users through personalized feeds and data-driven recommendations. Our platform synthesizes billions of data points, including context, user interests and behaviors to provide customized recommendations to users. Our Smartfeed product is a powerful solution for media partners to personalize content recommendation for users. The modular format of the feed enables media partners to customize the order, layout, and composition of content based on consumers context, interests and preferences. Our Smartlogic product dynamically adjusts both the arrangement and the formats of content delivered to a user within Smartfeed depending on the users preferences and our media partner key performance indicators (KPIs), ensuring a more personalized and engaging feed experience. Monetize content through customized, data-driven advertising. We deliver critical revenue that media partners depend on to operate their business. Our platform and partner integrations support a wide range of ad formats that leverage unique data insights in order to maximize revenue. Our algorithms balance revenue yields with overall user experience and can be harnessed to support additional revenue initiatives. Outbrain typically provides media partners with close to a 100% fill rate of the ad inventory managed by Outbrain; we believe that Outbrains role as an end-to-end solution, working directly with both media owners and advertisers, provides an economic advantage for our partners. It is estimated that media owners typically keep 40-50% of ad spend after it has passed through the variety of ad tech and programmatic point solutions, compared to around 70% of spend from Outbrains advertisers being passed on to our media partners. Maximize user engagement. Our solution enables media partners to engage and retain their audience, helping them achieve multiple business outcomes such as time spent with their content, growth of digital subscriptions, app downloads, podcast engagement and more. In addition, our proprietary optimization engine is an always-on testing and optimization solution that continuously enhances page layouts for maximum engagement and value. Manage their business. Outbrain Engage provides media partners with a web-based dashboard enabling them to manage and control certain aspects of our platform including the content, formats, sources, frequency and categories of ads delivered on their properties. In addition, we provide precise advertiser and creative classification and filtering tools while strictly enforcing rigorous ad and content quality requirements. We operate at great scale, with hundreds of thousands of new ads uploaded to our platform daily. We have processes and technology to review ads before they go live on Amplify, our product suite for advertisers, either through our automated processes or manually, in a process designed to ensure compliance with our strict content guidelines (which are available publicly on our website). We reject, on average, over 20% of new ads submitted. Our extensive ad review processes and automated monitoring tools provide a further layer of quality control for media partners. 9 Table of Contents We have thousands of media partner arrangements. We document most of our media partner arrangements using standard contract terms, which are comprised of a partner enrollment form, completed by media partners seeking our services, that hyperlinks to our publicly available standard partner distribution terms. The partner enrollment form contains the commercial terms of our arrangements: term length (initial, auto-renewal and notice period), the specified percentage of the revenue earned from implementing our technology on the media partner pages, the payment terms, as well as any additional terms agreed upon by the parties. The hyperlinked standard partner distribution terms include terms related to the license and use of the platform and technology, limitations on use of similar technologies, and customary terms and conditions. Other media partner arrangements may also include a guaranteed minimum rate of payment if the media partner meets certain additional criteria, including the implementation of advertisements in defined placements. In addition, certain media partner arrangements may have additional commercial terms such as variable revenue percentages based on page view volume or revenue, access to customized reporting, further detail around use or limitations of similar services, and additional termination rights. We also have arrangements with media partners on a programmatic basis such that the contract defines the mechanics to participate in the media partners real-time auction for access to media partners inventory, with neither party committing to provide or bid on inventory. Our Offering for Advertisers Our platform enables advertisers to have one-on-one interactions with consumers, at scale. We provide advertisers a powerful open web platform with significant reach and exclusive inventory, helping them connect with audiences on premium digital properties. Using Outbrain Amplify, our product suite for advertisers, we enable them to focus their campaigns on the users most likely to engage with their ads. Advertisers log into our platform directly to create campaigns, load or automatically generate creative assets, and manage their advertising activity on the open web, all while optimizing spend toward engagement and ROAS. Outbrain Amplify provides advertisers with: Seamless and non-intrusive ads. We provide advertisers access to ad inventory that benefits from high user attention by delivering ads that are native to the user experience and are personalized based on our unique understanding of each users context and interests. We call our ads Smartads because they are component-based and dynamically match the look and feel of the content where they are placed. Our Smartads support a variety of formats, including text and image, video, interactive carousel, app install and other forms of direct response. Ads optimized for engagement. Our deep and direct integration across the digital properties of thousands of media partners provides us with a wealth of proprietary data pertaining to user engagement and content consumption patterns. This enables us to deliver ads based on our user interest graph, as well as other unique data-driven tools and technologies. We believe that our direct integrations and exclusive partnerships are a differentiator when compared to most other online advertising solutions. Unlike other solutions, which often connect an advertiser to an available ad opportunity in a non-exclusive manner, typically mediated by other third-party platforms and technologies, our platform benefits from direct visibility into users overall engagement. Results optimize and pay for performance. Our platform enables advertisers to optimize to specific campaign goals, and buy on a Cost-per-Click basis, guaranteeing engagement and delivering other measurable business outcomes. We maintain transparent performance metrics, and advertisers are able to view progress, manage ongoing campaigns and maximize ROAS. Our autopilot feature enables advertisers to set their goals and KPIs and allows Amplify to automatically optimize bid prices and budget allocations to hit these goals. Our Conversion Bid Strategy (CBS) product automates and improves the optimization process, allowing advertisers to select varied ROAS or conversion goals while our product automatically optimizes their campaigns to maximize performance towards the desired outcomes. Advertisers and their agencies wishing to transact through programmatic channels can use Zemanta, our programmatic platform, as well as other third-party programmatic platforms. Quality. We work with established media partners, employing rigorous selection criteria, onboarding standards, controls, processes, and ongoing monitoring. As a result, our platform provides predominantly exclusive access to engaged users in high quality content environments across many of the worlds most trusted media properties. 10 Table of Contents Our Personalized Feed Experience for UsersSmartfeed Smartfeed is our personalized feed solution that drives deeper discovery of content, products and services, longer sessions and better user engagement. Smartfeed powers the content feeds of thousands of digital media owners, combining highly engaging multimedia formats, such as text and image, or video, with a diverse range of experiences and dynamic optimizations, continuously improving a personalized user experience. Within Smartfeed, our Smartlogic product dynamically adjusts both the arrangement and the formats of content delivered to a user, depending on the users preferences and our media partners KPIs, ensuring a more personalized and engaging feed experience. It leverages machine learning to personalize not just the content, but the entire feed composition from content experiences to the number and format of ads, ordering and more. 11 Table of Contents Our Smartfeed technology supports a wide variety of ad creative formats, including: Our Strengths Mission-critical partner for digital media owners. We provide digital media partners with mission-critical technology, an operating system, that is designed to increase user engagement and content monetization. The capabilities and revenue we provide enable many of our partners to sustain their businesses and deliver quality journalism, in some cases as they continue a long-term transition away from historic reliance on offline ad revenue. We are a trusted partner for some of the worlds most prestigious digital media owners such as Asahi Shimbun, CNN, Der Spiegel, Le Monde, MSN, Sky News and Sky Sports, and The Washington Post. The average tenure of our top 20 media partners, based on our 2021 revenue, is over seven years. Unique, at-scale platform for advertisers. Through our vast and predominantly exclusive relationships with media partners, we provide advertisers with access to over a billion monthly unique users. The breadth of our audience reach enables advertisers to deliver at-scale campaigns and to optimize the performance of their advertising spend. Unique proprietary data and algorithms driving a virtuous cycle. Our direct integrations across our partners properties provide us with a large volume of proprietary first-party engagement data, including context, user interest and behavioral signals. Leveraging our data, we continuously optimize our algorithms to improve CTR and ROAS. By delivering better results to advertisers, we are able to grow our business and our platform, which, in turn, helps us collect more data and further enhance our algorithms, driving better results for our partners, helping us further grow our platform and our business. Well positioned for a privacy-centric world. By integrating directly with our media partners properties, we generate proprietary first-party data and are able to collect and infer valuable user related data and insights. With the upcoming discontinuation of third-party cookies and confusion about the efficacy of any new approaches, marketers are looking to reinstate their consumer vision. More than three quarters of advertisers claimed robust first-party data is important when selecting video partners. In addition, our ability to use unique contextual signals enables us to deliver strong user engagement and advertiser ROAS without the need to rely solely on user-based targeting, typically enabled through user tracking technologies that may not be available in the future. History of successful innovation. We pioneered our category and have been focused on innovation since our founding. To ensure seamless product innovation we operate as a continuous deployment engineering organization, releasing an average of over 300 code deployments daily. We pl an to continue investing in our platform and its features. Scaled, profitable and diversified business. We have grown our business rapidly while achieving profitability, demonstrating the power of our technology, the strength of our partner and advertise r relationships and the inherent operating leverage of our model. In 2021, we achieved over $1 billion in revenue, $240.3 million in gross profit, and $272.1 million in Ex-TAC Gross Profit, reflecting year over year growth of 32.4%, 45.6% and 40.0%, respectively. In 2021, net income was $11.0 million , or 4.6% of gross profit, compared to a net income of $4.4 million , or 2.6% of gross profit, in 2020. Adjusted EBITDA more than doubled to $88.9 million , or 32.7% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, in 2021 from $41.1 million , or 21.2% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, in 2020. Our business is well diversified. In 2021 our top 12 Table of Contents twenty digital media partners accounted for approximately 49% of our revenue, with the largest accounting for 11% of our revenue. During the same year, our top twenty advertisers accounted for approximately 23% of our revenue, with the largest accounting for approximately 3% of our revenue. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Non-GAAP Reconciliations for definitions and reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures, such as Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, to the corresponding measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Team and culture. Companies cannot effect the change they aspire to achieve with o ut passionate, innovative employees. We rely on a global and diverse team of highly capable employees to collaborate, innovate, and execute our visionto empower high quality journalism and content creation. Outbrain routinely conducts anonymous employee engagement surveys; according to the survey in mid-2021, which had an 86% employee participation rate, 90% o f our employees responded that they would recommend Outbrain as a great place to work. Our Growth Strategies We believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on the continued growth of digital content consumption and digital advertising. We intend to continue investing in technology and innovation to improve our recommendation engine and product offering, support our efforts to grow relationships with existing and new media partners, and expand our advertiser footprint and share of wallet. We plan to pursue the following growth strategies: Continuously improve user engagement. Improving the quality of our recommendation engine has been an important driver of past growth and we expect it to remain a key driver of future growth. We believe that a great user experience drives engagement that compounds over time. Continued investment in our technology, artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities drives a better user experience, resulting in better CTR predictions and, in turn, higher monetization yield and revenue. We believe that we can significantly grow our business solely by improving user engagement. Grow our ad inventory. We have an extensive history of growing ad inventory by expanding our media partnerships and forming new ones. Existing partners. We have a strong track record of growth through the continuous expansion of existing media partnerships, as we launched products, features and formats that improved user engagement and retention, grew audiences, and improved monetization. We plan to continue innovating as we seek to grow our ad inventory by implementing optimizations, creating new ad formats, seeking additional ad placements, and pursuing opportunities to manage a larger proportion of our media partners digital properties through both direct integrations and programmatic relationships. In addition, we plan to expand our partnerships with software and hardware providers, enabling us to offer personalized content feeds for browsers and mobile operating systems. New partners. We plan to pursue new partnerships with media owners as well as integrations with programmatic platforms that will expand our reach to additional user segments, helping us grow our business. Grow advertiser spend. We plan to grow spend from existing, as well as new advertisers by pursuing the following initiatives: Further invest in our advertiser product suite. In the past, improvements to our advertiser solutions have been a meaningful driver of growth for our business. We plan to continue investing in Amplify and Zemanta in order to deliver better tools and technologies for advertisers on our platform. Continuously improve ROAS. We aim to deliver better results for advertisers through improved CTR, as well as automation in pricing and conversion optimization through our Conversion Bid Strategy product, helping us grow existing and new advertisers share of wallet. Grow brand spend. We plan to expand our existing suite of solutions aimed at brand advertisers. We believe that we will be able to capture significant spend from new and existing advertisers by providing new capabilities, such as additional exclusive ad placements, new optimization solutions, and unique ad formats, amongst others. Grow the number of advertisers. In addition to investments in our advertiser product and technology, we plan to invest in sales and marketing initiatives aimed at attracting new advertisers to our platform. We believe Zemantas programmatic offerings will continue to gain adoption amongst leading agencies and brands, and that new programmatic demand partners will enable us to continue to expand our advertiser footprint. 13 Table of Contents Drive adoption of high impact ad formats. High impact ad formats such as video, content highlight reels, and interactive carousel represent a significant opportunity to improve monetization of existing inventory. We plan to expand our offerings and capabilities in order to drive continued adoption by advertisers of these formats, helping them reach more of their target audience and achieve their campaign goals, enabling us to grow our business. The addition of video ad formats to our platform and advertiser offering is evidence of the significant opportunity for growth and has already delivered strong returns. From 2018 to 2021, we grew video revenues from approximately 2% to approximately 8% of our annual revenue. On January 5, 2022, we completed the acquisition of video intelligence AG (vi), a Swiss-based contextual video technology company for digital media owners. Through our acquisition of vi in the first quarter of 2022, we expanded our video offering to new formats and environments, including In-Stream video ads and connected TV (CTV) environments. Acquisitions and strategic partnerships. We have a track record of successfully executing a number of acquisitions and partnerships, helping us efficiently expand our offerings, grow our business and grow our talent. In 2017, we acquired Zemanta, providing us with advanced programmatic capabilities. In 2018, we acquired AdNgin, an advanced user interface optimization platform. In January 2022, we acquired vi, providing us with an expanded video offering for advertisers and media owners. We intend to continue pursuing partnership and acquisition opportunities that will enhance our technology or market presence and deliver more value to our partners and advertisers. Our Competition The digital advertising industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete for advertising dollars and media owner partnerships with advertising technology platforms such as Criteo, Magnite, PubMatic, Taboola, The Trade Desk, Viant and Xandr (Microsoft), as well as large consumer-facing digital platforms with advertising technology capabilities, such as Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter. The key factors that enable us to compete effectively for inventory from digital media owners include: the ability to deliver competitive monetization and engagement on media partner properties; trust, transparency and long-term alignment; and differentiated feed technology. The key factors that enable us to compete effectively for advertising dollars include: delivering high ROAS through our ability to identify and engage relevant users; massive audience reach; quality of inventory; and comprehensive range of inventory types, advertising formats and campaign tools. Our Technology We have designed our platform to process real-time content and advertising transactions quickly and efficiently at a massive scale. Our platform delivers on average over 10 billion recommendations daily, in 20 languages. We designed our platform using a microservices-based architecture, which enables the rapid deployment of new features with high availability, reliability, and redundancy. Our platform consists of the following key technology components: Infrastructure. To support our business needs, we operate our own proprietary cloud infrastructure. Our global infrastructure includes over 7,000 servers, with storage capacity exceeding several petabytes. Our servers are located in three third-party data centers, on a co-location basis, in Secaucus, NJ, Sacramento, CA, and Chicago, IL. Each of our data centers is operated by a different vendor, in order to minimize the impact of any outage on our platform. While all three data centers actively serve recommendations to users, we are able to serve all of our traffic from two of the three data centers if needed. We utilize a global content delivery network (CDN), and dynamic acceleration, for additional performance optimization and redundancy. 14 Table of Contents Our infrastructure is designed such that we do not have any known single point of failure at any level. Within each data center, we have load-balanced servers on each layer of the system, so that a failure in one server or component will not impact performance or availability. Some of these clusters are dedicated to handling incoming traffic and delivering content, including web servers, caches and real-time database applications. Other clusters are devoted to the data analytics and algorithm modeling involved in creating content recommendations. The design also includes load balancers, firewalls and routers that connect the components and provide connections to the Internet. In particular, we use software specifically designed for processing large data sets to provide real-time data analysis, the results of which are then fed back to refresh and improve our recommendation algorithms. We monitor our system using several tools, both internal and external, to gauge our uptime and performance. We also use multiple layered security controls to protect our recommendation engine and our data assets, including software-based access controls for our source code and production systems, segregated networks for different components of our production systems and centralized production systems management. We believe that the failure of any individual component will not affect the overall availability of our platform, having maintained an uptime of 99.9% from 2018 to 2021. Data. One of the key benefits of our platform is the management, analysis, and structuring of valuable user engagement and advertising data. Our data scale: We gather billions of data events per minute delivering over 10 billion recommendations per day. On average, we collect in excess of 80 terabytes of data per day consisting of contextual signals, advertiser data, and user engagement data (typically clicks on recommendations). We leverage our data to improve our algorithms and prediction capabilities. Our automated content index: To operate our platform, we have created our automated content index, comprising over 2 billion content elements. Our technology automatically classifies and analyzes content at a rate of over 1,500,000 pages a day in 20 different languages. We index content through RSS feeds and JavaScript triggers to continuously identify new content and changes to existing content. Our automated index deconstructs content into base elements including titles, images and topics in order to recombine the elements into targeting data and formatted recommendations and ads. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Our proprietary artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities enable us to harness the vast volume of data we collect in order to effectively match users to relevant content and ads based on our content index. Our algorithms make over 1,000 click predictions, on average, before selecting which recommendations to present on each page view. Our Data Flywheel 15 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We focus our sales and marketing efforts on supporting, advising, and training our partners and advertisers, helping them optimize their use of our platform. We employ in-market sales teams across our markets, helping us attract premium digital media owners and advertisers to our platform. In addition, we have developed and currently utilize online acquisition channels to attract new advertisers, who we are able to onboard and serve in an automated manner, using self-serve tools and technologies. Our sales teams educate prospective media owners, partners, and advertisers on the use, technical capabilities, and benefits of our platform. Our dedicated teams work with potential customers through the entire sale cycle, from initial contact to contract execution and implementation. Throughout the process, our teams provide guidance as to how our platform can optimize the value of a media partners audience or how an advertiser can reach relevant users. Additionally, following contract execution and implementation, our account management teams guide media partners on how additional platform deployment and optimizations can deliver incremental monetization. We engage advertisers and their agencies in order to educate them on how to increase reach and ROAS using our solutions. Our marketing team is focused on delivering strategies that drive efficient new partner and advertiser acquisition, enhancing our position as key industry thought leaders, supporting our sales teams, and increasing awareness of our brand. Human Capital Resources Much of our success can be directly attributed to our global team of technology, business, and data science experts who work o ut of our 17 locations worldwide. Outbrain comprises a diverse, intelligent and driven group of individuals who are passionate and excited to be leading the way in which users discover things online. Our culture and team are the most important asset in building and expanding our business. Our team identifies new problems to solve, builds solutions, optimizes and extends our infrastructure, and acquires and serves customers. We believe that strong and diverse teams deepen customer relationships, promote innovation, and increase productivity. Our Culture Manifesto, available publicly on the Outbrain website, is one of many important expressions of the values and principles that reflect how we behave, collectively and individually. Our people strategy revolves around creating employee experiences. We strive to foster deep employee engagement built upon personal development and achievement that is supported by continuous feedback, learning, and team building. As we continue growing our team, and become more diverse culturally and geographically, we want to make sure we retain a shared mission among the people that become part of our company. In particular, there are certain characteristics that we seek out in our employees: Intelligent and productive. There are many great attributes companies can seek in the candidates they hireacademic degrees, deep industry expertise, hands-on work experience, etc. While these attributes are an important part of our screening process, we seek, above all else, a combination of smarts and a get stuff done attitude. Collaborative. We love hiring and nurturing professionals who are great at their craft. At the same time, we are cognizant that we are ultimately playing a team sport and we therefore look for people who strive to be amazing team players. A self-described Superstar or Ninja focused on personal status is not likely to fit our team, even if they might be very good at their profession. Passionate. People who have a passion for something typically have that spark in their eyes when they engage in the work they love. They bring their best self to work, possess the desire to improve and learn, and focus on opportunities rather than obstacles. Through their passion, they set the tone for the rest of the team and become excellent examples for everyone to follow. We also strive to make Outbrain diverse at all levels of the company, and in all types of jobs. Our priority is to always hire and promote people based on qualifications and merit, and we believe that this approach does not conflict with the objectives of inclusion and empowerment. Our team consists of people from many different nationalities and cultures with different perspectives, opinions and ideas which we believe is undeniably powerful and ultimately drives shareholder value. We support employee-led employee resource groups ("ERGs"), which foster a diverse and inclusive workplace. We currently have four ERGs: OB Good, OB Green, OB WE and OB4Equality, focusing on social responsibility, environmental sustainability, women's empowerment, and diversity equity and inclusion, respectively, all of which are open to people of all backgrounds. 16 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2021, we had 1,016 employees and contractors, 53% of whom were male and 47% of whom were female. 43.3% of our workforce is located in Israel, 15.5% is located in the United States, and the remaining 41.2% is located in our other global offices. In March 2020, we transitioned to remote work, with selective offices returning on a hybrid basis where conditions related to Covid-19 permitted. Based on feedback from the organization, we plan to continue working based on a hybrid model, with employees working from both our office locations and their homes. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal and state statutory and common law rights, foreign laws where applicable, and contractual restrictions. We seek to control access to our proprietary technology by entering into non-disclosure agreements with third parties and disclosure and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors. We consider our trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights to be, in the aggregate, material to our business. In addition to our intellectual property rights, we also consider the skills and ingenuity of our employees and the functionality and frequent enhancements to our solutions to be contributors to our success. We believe our platform would be difficult, time consuming, and costly to replicate. We protect our competitive technology position through innovation and by continually developing new intellectual property. Outbrain has built an extensive intellectual property portfolio to date. This portfolio includes 18 granted U.S. utility patents, 35 granted U.S. design patents and 14 European registered community designs. Regulatory Environment We are subject to privacy laws and regulations governing the collection, use, and sharing of consumer data. Interest-based advertising, or the use of data to draw inferences about a consumers interests and deliver relevant advertising to that consumer, has come under increasing scrutiny by legislative bodies, regulatory bodies, self-regulatory bodies, privacy advocates, and academics in the United States and abroad. In particular, much of this scrutiny has focused on the use of cookies and other tracking technologies that collect or aggregate information regarding consumers online browsing and mobile app activity. Our Company, our media partners and advertisers rely upon large volumes of such data collected primarily through cookies and other tracking technologies. It is essential that we monitor legal requirements and other developments in this area, both domestically and globally, maintain a robust privacy and security compliance program, anticipate the evolution of regulations applicable to us and engage in responsible privacy practices, including providing consumers with notice of the types of data we collect, how we collect it, with whom we share it, how we use that data to provide our solutions and how consumers can exercise their rights and personalization choices. We typically collect IP addresses and device identifiers that are considered to be personal data or personal information under the privacy laws of some jurisdictions or otherwise may be the subject of current or future data privacy legislation or regulation. The definition of personally identifiable information, personal information, or personal data varies by jurisdiction and continues to evolve in ways that may require us to adapt our practices to comply with laws and regulations related to the collection, storage, use, and sharing of consumer data. As a result, our technology platform and business practices must be assessed regularly against a continuously evolving legal, regulatory, and technology landscape. A growing set of privacy regulations have introduced complexity regarding the collection, use, and transmission of consumer data to the digital advertising ecosystem. We have implemented a number of technology innovations, process enhancements, and industry solutions in response to increased obligations, including adopting the advertising industrys technical and policy solutions that form compliance standards. Additionally, compliance with our privacy policy, privacy notices and our general consumer data privacy and security practices are subject to review by the Federal Trade Commission, which may bring enforcement actions to challenge allegedly unfair and deceptive trade practices, including the violation of privacy policies and misrepresentations or material omissions therein. Certain State Attorneys General in the United States may also bring enforcement actions based on applicable state laws or federal laws that permit state-level enforcement. California enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, along with related regulations (together, the CCPA), which became effective in 2020. The CCPA creates individual privacy rights for California residents and increases the privacy and security obligations of businesses handling personal data. The CCPA is enforceable by the California Attorney General and there is also a private right of action relating to certain data security incidents. The CCPA generally requires covered businesses to, among other things, provide disclosures to California consumers and afford California consumers the ability to opt-out of the sharing of personal data between parties, a concept that is defined 17 Table of Contents broadly, and behavioral advertising triggers such requirements under the CCPA. The CCPA or subsequent guidance on our business or operations may require us to further modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Decreased availability and increased costs of information could adversely affect our ability to meet our advertisers requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Additionally, starting in January 2023, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which was voted into law in November 2020 and amends the CCPA, imposes additional data protection obligations on certain businesses doing business in California, including abiding by additional consumer rights and limiting the use and processing of personal data including sensitive data. In addition, the CPRA explicitly requires businesses to provide consumers with the right to opt-out of sharing of personal data with third parties for behavioral advertising. Accordingly, the CPRA could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The CCPA has led to copycat laws in other states across the country, such as in Virginia and Colorado, and likely in Connecticut, Florida, New York, Oklahoma, and Washington. This legislation may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions, and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources to compliance programs, and could impact strategies and availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs and/or changes in business practices and policies. Such new privacy laws add additional complexity, requirements, restrictions, and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources such as compliance programs, and could impact trading strategies and availability of previously useful data. Outside of the United States, our privacy and data practices are subject to regulation by data protection authorities and other regulators in the countries in which we do business. The use and transfer of personal data in member states of the European Union is currently governed under the GDPR, which grants additional data protection rights to consumers, such as deletion and portability, and generally prohibits the transfer of personal data of EU subjects outside of the EU, unless the party exporting the data from the EU implements a compliance mechanism designed to ensure that the receiving party will adequately protect such data. The GDPR establishes significant potential liabilities for certain data protection violations, which may result in fines up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of an enterprises global annual revenue. Despite GDPR purportedly harmonizing data protection laws across the European Union, continuously evolving interpretation and enforcement by member states requires regular review of the legal and regulatory landscape. The United Kingdom, previously part of the European Union and subject to the GDPR, may also amend its data protection regime, which could add more complexity to the regulatory landscape and our operations in Europe. We previously relied upon the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework (the Privacy Shield framework) to transfer personal data of EU subjects to the United States. The Privacy Shield framework was declared invalid by the CJEU on July 16, 2020. In the same judgment, the CJEU upheld the adequacy of the standard contractual clauses, a standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanism, and a potential alternative to the Privacy Shield framework, both of which were used by Outbrain, but it made clear that reliance on the standard contractual clauses alone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances and cast doubt on their future use. The use of standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data specifically to the United States remains under review by a number of European data protection supervisory authorities. Furthermore, the EU is currently in discussions to replace the ePrivacy Directive (commonly called the Cookie Directive) with the ePrivacy Regulation that governs the use of technologies that collect, access, and store consumer information and may create additional compliance burdens for us in Europe. Further, other jurisdictions have proposed or enacted legislation that closely track the concepts, obligations, and consumer rights described in the GDPR, including Brazils General Data Protection Law, the Japanese APPI and Singapores Personal Data Protection Act 2020. The laws that have passed are being enforced by local authorities. The enactment of new proposed laws is gaining momentum and adds additional complexity to our and our partners compliance programs. Beyond laws and regulations, we are also members of self-regulatory bodies that impose additional requirements related to the collection, use, and disclosure of consumer data. We are members in good standing of the Network Advertising Initiative (NAI), an association dedicated to responsible data collection and its use for digital advertising. We adhere to the NAI Code of Conduct for Web and Mobile, along with the IAB Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising, and the IAB Europe OBA Framework. We are also Trustworthy Accountability Group (TAG) Brand Safety Certified. We are participants of, and adhere to, the Self-Regulatory Principles set forth by the Digital Advertising Alliance and the European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance. 18 Table of Contents Under the requirements of these self-regulatory bodies, in addition to other compliance obligations, we provide consumers with notice via our privacy policies about our use of cookies and other tracking technologies to collect consumer data, our use of consumer data to deliver interest-based ads, and consumers opt-out choices. We also allow consumers to opt-out from the use of data we collect for purposes of interest-based advertising through mechanisms described in our privacy policies available on our website. Some of these self-regulatory bodies have the ability to review or sanction members or participants, which could result in penalties and cause reputational harm. Additionally, some of these bodies might refer violations of their requirements to the Federal Trade Commission or other regulators. For additional information regarding the current regulatory environment and how it may impact us, see Item 1A. Risk Factors under Risks Relating to Legal or Regulatory Matters included in this Report. Security Being a trusted partner is a key value for us and, as such, cyber security is an ongoing commitment. Our dedicated cyber security team has implemented industry best practices and standards including, but not limited to, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27032, Cloud Security Alliance Star level 1, and PCI-DSS SAQ A-EP, SOC 2 data centers. Our products are designed with security and privacy at the forefront. We maintain tight controls over the personal data we collect, retaining it in firewalled and secured databases with strictly limited and controlled access rights, to ensure it is secure while utilizing advanced monitoring over our environment. All traffic to and between our data centers is encrypted, along with all sensitive configurations, while our users and customers have their passwords hashed. Secure advertising is a building block of user trust. In order to provide secure ads, we integrated an advanced industry leading third-party technology to scan live ads looking for potential security violations either in the ads themselves or on the pages to which they directly link. Combined with internally developed capabilities and our content review process we are tackling both malicious ads and the bad actors behind them. We constantly strive to understand what we have yet to discover by running an exhaustive security testing framework, including scanning all internal and external assets for vulnerabilities, utilizing multiple third-party security testing teams every year, and running a bug bounty program with more than 300 security researchers. Providing a clean, non-fraudulent premium network for publishers, advertisers and consumers is a top priority at Outbrain. Our dedicated anti-fraud team monitors our platform to identify and investigate unusual web traffic patterns. We detect, block and prevent fraudulent web traffic by using both internal and external thir d-party T AG Anti-Fraud certified solutions. We have been a TAG-verified member since 2018. We are also adopting th e Media Rating Council Invalid Traffic Detection and Filtration Standards in our internal fraud detection technological ecosystem. 19 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below and all other information contained in this Report, including in the Note About Forward-Looking Statements, the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our shares of common stock would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of some of the principal risks we face: Our revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on overall advertising demand and traffic generated by our media partners; A failure to grow or to manage growth effectively may cause the quality of our platform and solutions to suffer, and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition; Continued growth in our business may place demands on our infrastructure and resources; Our research and development efforts may not meet the demands of a rapidly evolving technology market; Loss of media partners could have a significant impact on our revenue and results of operations; Our sales and marketing efforts may require significant investments and, in certain cases, involve long sales cycles; The failure of our recommendation engine to accurately predict user engagement may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition; If the quality of our recommendations deteriorates, or if we fail to present interesting content to our users, we may experience a decline in user engagement, which could result in the loss of media partners; The digital advertising industry is intensely competitive, and if we do not effectively compete against current and future competitors, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected; Limitations on our ability to collect, use, and disclose data to deliver advertisements; Failures or loss of the hardware, software and infrastructure on which we rely, or security breaches, could adversely affect our business; and Political and regulatory risks in the various markets in which we operate; the challenges of compliance with differing and changing regulatory requirements. Risks Related to Outbrain and Outbrains Industry Our revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on overall advertising demand in the markets in which we operate. Factors that affect the amount of advertising spending, such as economic downturns and unexpected events can make it difficult to predict our revenue and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for advertising in the markets in which we operate and on the business trends of our current and prospective media partners and advertisers. Macroeconomic factors in the U.S. and foreign markets could cause advertisers to reduce their advertising budgets, including adverse economic conditions and general uncertainty about economic recovery or growth, particularly in North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), and Asia, where we conduct most of our business, as well as instab ility in political or market conditions generally. Given global supply chain issues, and inflationary pressures, certain advertisers may not have readily accessible inventory to merit marketing expenditures. Our business may also be negatively impacted by the Ukraine-Russia conflict, as geopolitical concerns may result in conservative approaches by advertisers and media owners when allocating budgets and ad inventory, respectively. Additionally, certain of our service providers have been and may be further affected by the conflict which may in turn impact us. Red uctions in overall advertising spending as a result of these factors or due to the occurrence of unanticipated events could make it difficult to predict our future performance. The occurrence of unforeseen events, like the COVID-19 pandemic, that affect advertising demand may have a disproportionate impact on our revenues and profitability in certain periods and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents In order to meet our growth objectives, we will need to continue to innovate, seek to have advertisers and media partners adopt our expanding solutions, and extend our reach into evolving digital media platforms. If we fail to grow, or fail to manage our growth effectively, the quality of our platform and solutions may suffer, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our growth plans depend upon our ability to innovate, attract advertisers and digital media owners to our solutions to buy and sell new inventory, and expand the use of our solutions by advertisers and media partners utilizing other digital media platforms and video. Our business model may not translate well into emerging forms of advertising due to market resistance or other factors, such as evolving regulatory restrictions, and we may not be able to innovate successfully enough to compete effectively. The advertising technology market is dynamic, and our success depends upon our ability to develop innovative new technologies and solutions for the evolving needs of sellers of digital advertising, including websites, applications and other media partners, and buyers of digital advertising. We also need to grow significantly to develop the market reach and scale necessary to compete effectively with large competitors. This growth depends to a significant degree upon the quality of our strategic vision and planning. The advertising market is evolving rapidly, and if we make strategic errors, there is a significant risk that we will lose our competitive position and be unable to achieve our objectives. The growth we are pursuing may itself strain the organization, harming our ability to continue that growth, and to maintain the quality of our operations. If we are not able to innovate and grow successfully, our business, results of operations, financial condition and the value of our company may be adversely affected. The continued growth in our business may place demands on our infrastructure and our operational, managerial, administrative, and financial resources. Our success will depend on our ability to manage growth effectively. Among other things, this will require us at various times to: strategically invest in the development and enhancement of our platform and data center infrastructure; manage multiple relationships with various media partners, advertisers, and other third parties; extend our operating, administrative, legal, financial, and accounting systems and controls; increase coordination among our engineering, product, operations, go-to-market and other support organizations; and recruit, hire, train, and retain personnel. If we do not manage our growth well, the efficacy and performance of our platform may suffer, which may harm our reputation and reduce demand for our platform and solutions. Failure to manage our growth effectively may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our research and development efforts may not meet the demands of a rapidly evolving technology market resulting in a loss of customers, revenue, and/or market share. We expect to continue to dedicate significant financial and other resources to our research and development efforts in order to maintain or improve our competitive position. However, investing in research and development personnel, developing new solutions and enhancing existing solutions is expensive and time consuming. Our research and development activities may be directed at maintaining or increasing the performance of our recommendations, developing tools that improve productivity or efficiency, or introducing new solutions. However, there is no assurance that such activities will result in significant new marketable solutions, enhancements to our current solutions, design improvements, additional revenue or other expected benefits. Furthermore, there is no assurance that our efforts to promote new or enhanced solutions, like video solutions or new advertiser tools, will be successful. If we are unable to generate an adequate return on our investment with respect to our research and development efforts, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Loss of large media partners could have a significant impact on our revenue and results of operations. A significant portion of our recommendations are placed on web pages and mobile applications of a small number of our media partners. Certain partners may reduce or terminate their business with us at any time for any reason, including as a result of changes in their financial condition or other business circumstances, such as a change in strategy or model by which they monetize their properties . In 2021, our largest media partner accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues, whereas in 2020 and 2019, each of our two largest media partners accounted for approximately 10% of our revenues. If a large media partner reduces or terminates its relationship with us, or if several small or medium-sized media partners terminate their 21 Table of Contents relationships with us, we may not have access to sufficient media partners to satisfy demand from advertisers resulting in lower revenues. In addition, losing key media partners may lead advertisers to seek alternate advertising solutions, which could slow our growth. A media partner may terminate its relationship with us and enter into a relationship with a competitor, and to the extent that becomes a long-term relationship, reestablishing our relationship with that media partner may prove difficult. As discussed below, establishing relationships with media partners may involve long sales cycles. As a result, the loss of a significant media partner relationship or of several small or medium-sized media partner relationships could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our sales and marketing efforts may require significant investments and, in certain cases, involve long sales cycles, and may not yield the results we seek. Even if our sales and marketing efforts are successful, there can be no assurance that our media partners will be able to generate sufficient traffic. Our sales and marketing teams educate prospective media partners and advertisers about the use, technical capabilities, and benefits of our platform. Our sales cycle (with both media partners as well as with certain advertisers and agencies) can take significant time from initial contact to contract execution and implementation. We may not succeed in attracting new media partners despite our significant investment in business development, sales and marketing and it is complex to predict the extent of the revenue that will be generated with a media partner. We may not succeed in expanding relationships with existing media partners and advertisers, despite our significant investment in sales, account management, marketing, and research and development and it is difficult to predict when additional products will generate revenue through our platform, and the extent of that revenue. Programmatic partners tend to have a longer sales cycle with distinct technical and integration requirements, as well as a separate ongoing partner management process. If we are unsuccessful in our sales and marketing efforts, our results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected. Even if our sales and marketing efforts are successful, there can be no assurance that the properties of our media partners will be able to generate sufficient user interest, traffic or engagement. The ability of our media partners to maintain or grow their digital properties is often outside of our control and may result in stagnant or declining ad inventory availability, which could negatively impact our results of operations and prospects. Our revenue growth and future prospects will be adversely affected if we fail to expand our advertiser relationships. Our revenue growth depends on our success in expanding and deepening our relationships with existing advertisers. Our growth strategy is premised in part on increasing spend from existing advertisers. In order to do so, we must be able to demonstrate better results for our advertisers with increased user engagement and ROAS, among other things. We do not have long-term commitments from our advertisers. We seek to increase the number of advertisers and to reach new advertisers. Attracting new advertisers and expanding existing relationships with our advertisers requires substantial effort and expense. In particular, large advertisers with well-established brands may require us to spend significant time educating them about our platform and solutions. It may be difficult and time consuming to identify, sell and market to potential advertisers who already allocate their budgets to large competitors and who expect to see a similar return on investment before diversifying or allocating a portion of their advertising budgets to us. As new advertisers spend in our network or as advertisers allocate greater budgets to our platform, our credit loss exposure may increase over time and may exceed reserves for such contingencies. As we expand the application of our solutions, we increasingly depend on media agencies to assist advertisers in planning and purchasing advertising for brand marketing objectives, such as preference shift and brand awareness. We typically experience slow payment cycles by advertising agencies, as is common in our industry, and in some instances, if the advertiser does not pay the agency, the agency is not liable to us, and we must seek payment solely from the advertiser. If we are unsuccessful in developing new advertiser and agency relationships and maintaining and expanding our existing relationships, our results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected. The failure of our recommendation engine to accurately predict user engagement may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The success of our recommendation engine depends on the ability of our proprietary algorithms to predict the likelihood users will engage with our recommendations and on the quality of our data assets. We need to continuously deliver satisfactory results for users, media partners and advertisers in order to maintain revenue, which, in turn, depends in part on the optimal functioning of our platform and solutions. Therefore, a failure of our recommendation engine to accurately predict user engagement could negatively affect our results of operations and revenue. 22 Table of Contents If the quality of our recommendations deteriorates, or if we fail to present interesting content to our users, we may experience a decline in user engagement, which could result in the loss of media partners. Our technology selects the recommendations that are displayed to users on the online properties of our media partners. Our success depends on our ability to make valuable recommendations, which, in turn, depends on the quality of recommendations in our index and our ability to predict engagement by an individual user within a specific context. We believe that one of our key competitive advantages is our recommendation technology. Subject to our advertiser guidelines, we offer our media partners a degree of flexibility with respect to the type of recommendation that they believe will appeal to their audience based on the editorial tone of their properties. If the quality of our recommendations suffers, whether due to our actions or decisions made by our media partners, or we are otherwise unable to provide users with valuable and relevant recommendations, user engagement may decline or perceptions of our recommendations may be adversely impacted. If we experience a decline in users or user engagement, for example, because users begin to ignore our platform or direct their attention to other elements on the online properties of our media partners, our media partners and advertisers may in turn not view our solutions as attractive, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The content of advertisements could damage our reputation and brand, or harm our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers and media partners, and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our reputation and brand may be negatively affected by ads that are deemed to be hostile, infringing, offensive or inappropriate by users and media partners. From time to time, we make changes in our advertiser guidelines that can result in the inclusion or exclusion of certain types of ads. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that such changes might have on user engagement or perceptions of our recommendations. We have adopted policies regarding unacceptable advertisements and retain authority to remove ads that violate these policies; however, advertisers could nonetheless provide such content and occasionally circumvent our policies. If any of those ads lead to hostile, infringing, offensive or inappropriate content, our reputation could suffer by association. The safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brand. This could adversely affect existing relationships with media partners and advertisers, as well as our ability to expand our user and media partner base, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Conditions in Israel could materially and adversely affect our business. Many of our employees, including certain members of our management team, operate from our offices in Israel. In addition, a number of our officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may directly affect our business and operations. In recent years, Israel has been engaged in sporadic armed conflicts with Hamas, an Islamist terrorist group that controls the Gaza Strip, with Hezbollah, an Islamist terrorist group that controls large portions of southern Lebanon, and with Iranian-backed military forces in Syria. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and may be developing nuclear weapons. Some of these hostilities were accompanied by missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip, Lebanon and Syria against civilian targets in various parts of Israel, including areas in which our employees are located, which negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with war and terrorism. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of property damage and certain direct and indirect damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, such coverage would likely be limited, may not be applicable to our business (either due to the geographic location of our offices or the type of business that we operate) and may not reinstate our loss of revenue or economic losses more generally. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or that it will sufficiently cover our potential damages. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Further, in the past, the State of Israel and Israeli companies have been subjected to economic boycotts. Several countries still restrict business with the State of Israel and with Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business, financial condition and/or our results of operations. In addition, a campaign of boycotts, divestment and sanctions has been undertaken against Israel, which could also adversely impact our business. 23 Table of Contents Also, many Israeli citizens are obligated to perform several days, and in some cases more, of annual military reserve duty each year until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for reservists who are military officers or who have certain occupations) and, in the event of a military conflict, may be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by such call-ups, particularly if such call-ups include the call-up of members of our management. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The digital advertising industry is intensely competitive, and if we do not effectively compete against current and future competitors, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The digital advertising ecosystem is competitive and complex. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, and greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources than we have. In addition, some competitors may have greater flexibility than we do to compete aggressively on the basis of their scale, price and other contract terms, or to compete with us by including in their product offerings services that we may not provide. The market is fragmented and we also face competition from many smaller companies, many of which may be willing to offer their services on prices or terms that are not profitable for us. Some competitors are able or willing to agree to contract terms that expose them to risks and in order to compete effectively we might need to accommodate similar risks that could be difficult to manage or insure against. Media partners are investing in capabilities that enable them to connect more effectively and directly with advertisers. Our business may suffer to the extent that media partners and advertisers sell and purchase advertising inventory directly from one another or through intermediaries other than us, reducing the amount of advertising spend on our platform. If we are unable to compete effectively for media partners inventory and/or advertisers advertising spend, we may experience less demand, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There has also been rapid evolution and consolidation in digital advertising, and we expect these trends to continue, thereby increasing the capabilities and competitive positioning of larger companies, particularly those that are already dominant. There is a finite number of large digital media owners and advertisers in our target markets, and any consolidation of media partners or advertisers may give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power or result in the loss of media partners and advertisers that use our platform, reducing our potential base of media partners and advertisers, each of which would potentially erode our revenue. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our profitability. In addition, we and our media partners compete indirectly for user engagement with larger search and social media companies, such as Facebook, Inc., Google Inc., LinkedIn Corp. and Twitter Inc. We also broadly compete for advertiser budgets with other forms of traditional and online marketing, including keyword advertising, social media marketing and display advertising. Loss of existing or future market share to new competitors and advertisers allocating finite budgets to competitors could substantially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our current business model depends on media partners maintaining open access digital properties, monetizing through advertising and attracting users to their digital properties, and could be impacted by continued pressure on the publishing industry. Our platform depends on users being able to consume content freely on media partners properties. Some media partners, typically those that participate in both print and digital publishing, charge their users a subscription fee for online access by implementing a paywall. Our business may be negatively impacted by media partners shifting from open access to paywalls or generating less user interest because it may decrease our access to users and advertising inventory. If media partners shift their revenue models to a subscription-based service, they may decrease their reliance on other forms of revenue generation, including our recommendations and ads, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and future results of operations are likely to fluctuate as well. In addition, because our business continues to evolve, you should not place undue reliance on our historical results of operations in assessing our future prospects. Factors that can cause our results of operations to fluctuate include: changes in demand and competition for ad inventory sold on our platform; changes in our access to valuable ad inventory of media partners; the addition or loss of media partners on our platform, an d/or loss of ad inventory from a media partner; costs associated with adding or attempting to retain them; seasonality of our business; changes in consumer usage of devices and channels to access media and digital content; changes in the structure of the buying and selling of digital ad inventory; changes in the pricing policies of media partners and competitors; changes in third-party service costs; changes and uncertainty in our legislative, regulatory, and industry environment, particularly in the areas of data protection and consumer privacy; introduction of new technologies or solutions; unilateral actions taken by demand side platforms, agencies, advertisers, media partners, and supply side platforms; changes in our capital expenditures as we acquire hardware, technologies, and other assets for our business; and changes to the cost of retaining and adding highly specialized personnel. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. Our profitability may be adversely impacted, or may fluctuate on a quarterly basis, due to guarantees that we have provided to some of our media partners. In order to secure favorable terms, such as exclusivity and longer-term agreements, we may offer media partners contracts with guaranteed minimum rates of payments. These guarantees require us to pay the media owner for the ad impressions we receive, regardless of whether the consumer engages with the ad or we are paid by the advertiser. If the level of user engagement on a media partner property or overall advertiser demand falls, the payments to our media partners with guaranteed minimum rates of payment may adversely impact our Ex-TAC Gross Profit and our margins. This includes the possibility of paying a media partner an amount in excess of the revenue that we generated from ads served on that media partner property. The revenue from ads served on a media partner property or overall advertiser demand could drop for reasons outside of our control. It is also possible that we will agree to a rate of payment that is more difficult to profitably recoup than we originally believed. In additi on, many of our contract s that contain guarantee arrangements set a single rate of payment and do not account for seasonal revenue fluctuations. As a result, our gross profit margins may fluctuate with the seasonality of the business. Although we have secured limited exemptions in contracts with guarantees, due to these factors, these guarantees may adversely impact our traffic acquisition costs in absolute dollar terms and as a percentage of revenue, as well as overall profitability. The provision of guaranteed minimum rates to additional media partners or to existing media partners upon contract renewal, or the provision of such guarantees in contracts that contemplate a large number of page views, such as some of the contracts we have entered into with large media partners, may increase the risk that our gross profit and/or margins may be adversely impacted for the reasons we describe above. Seasonal fluctuations in advertising activity and large cyclical events could have a material impact on our revenue, cash flow and operating results. Our revenue, cash flow, operating results and other key operating and performance metrics may vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of our advertisers spending. For example, advertisers tend to devote more of their advertising budgets to the fourth calendar quarter to coincide with user holiday spending. Moreover, advertising inventory in the fourth quarter may be more expensive due to increased demand. Other large cyclical events that attract advertisers, such as elections, the Olympics and other sporting events, the Oscars, or other large entertainment events, also could cause our revenue to increase during certain periods and decrease in other periods. 25 Table of Contents Our business depends on our ability to collect, use and disclose data to deliver advertisements. Any limitation imposed on our collection, use or disclosure of this data could significantly diminish the value of our solution. We use cookies, or small text files placed on consumer devices when an Internet browser is used, as well as mobile device identifiers, to gather data that enables our platform to be more effective. We collect this data through various means, including code that media partners and advertisers implement on their pages, software development kits installed in mobile applications, our own cookies, and other tracking technologies. Our advertisers, directly or through third-party data providers, may choose to further target their campaigns within our platform. The data we collect improves our algorithms and helps us deliver relevant recommendations with greater user engagement. Our ability to collect and use data is critical to the value of our platform. Without cookies, mobile device IDs, and other tracking technology data, our recommendations would be informed by less information about user interests and advertisers may have less visibility into their return on ad spend. If our ability to use cookies, mobile device IDs or other tracking technologies is limited, we may be required to develop or obtain additional applications and technologies to compensate for the lack of cookies, mobile device IDs and other tracking technology data, which could be time consuming or costly to develop, less effective, and subject to additional regulation. As described in more detail below in this Item 1A under User growth and engagement depends upon effective interoperation with devices, platforms and standards set by third parties that we do not control, prominent technology companies also have discontinued, or announced intentions to discontinue, the use of certain cookies, and to develop alternative methods and mechanisms for tracking users . Additionally, we are subject to laws and regul ations related to data privacy, data protection, information security, and consumer protection across different markets where we conduct our business, which could potentially impact our ability to collect, use, and disclose data as described in this Item 1A under We are subject to laws and regulations related to data privacy, data protection, and information security, and consumer protection across different markets where we conduct our business, including in the United States and Europe. Such laws, regulations, and industry requirements are constantly evolving and changing and could potentially impact data collection and data usage for advertising and recommendations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition . There are many technical challenges relating to our ability to collect, aggregate and associate the data, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so effectively, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. User growth and engagement depends upon effective interoperation with devices, platforms and standards set by third parties that we do not control. Our recommendations are currently accessed through desktops, laptops and mobile devices, and are adaptable across many digital environments, including web pages, mobile applications, email and video players. In the future, our recommendations may be accessed through other new devices and media platforms. As a result, we depend on the interoperability of our solutions with popular devices, platforms and standards that we do not control. For example, because many users access our platform through mobile devices, we depend on the interoperability of our solutions with mobile devices and operating systems such as Android and iOS. Any changes in, or restrictions imposed by, such devices, platforms or standards that impair the functionality of our current or proposed solutions or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our platform. Some users also download free or paid ad blocking software on their computers or mobile devices, not only for privacy reasons, but also to counteract the adverse effect advertisements can have on the user experience, including increased load times, data consumption, and screen overcrowding. If more users adopt these measures, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Many applications and other devices allow users to avoid receiving advertisements by paying for subscriptions or other downloads. Prominent media technology companies, including Google, are also limiting what advertisements may be rendered through their browsers in the name of user experience and load times. Ad-blocking technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition if they reduce the volume or effectiveness and value of advertising. 26 Table of Contents Prominent technology companies also have discontinued, or announced intentions to discontinue, the use of certain cookies, and to develop alternative methods and mechanisms for tracking users. The most commonly used Internet browsers allow users to modify their browser settings to block first-party cookies (placed directly by the media partner or website owner that the user intends to interact with) or third-party cookies, and some browsers block third-party cookies by default. For example, Apple already prohibits the use of third-party cookies and moved to opt-in privacy models with iOS requiring users to voluntarily choose (opt-in) to permit app developers to track them across applications and websites and therefore receive targeted ads. In January 2020, Google announced its intention to limit the use of third-party cookies in its Chrome web browser by the end of 2023. In February 2022, Google announced that its next version of the Android operating system will include privacy restrictions, similar to Apples, that will prevent tracking across applications. As a consequence, fewer of our cookies or media partners cookies may be set in browsers or be accessible in mobile devices, which adversely affects our business. As companies replace cookies, it is possible that such companies may rely on proprietary algorithms or statistical methods to track users without cookies, or may utilize log-in credentials entered by users into other web properties owned by these companies, such as their email services, to track web usage, including usage across multiple devices. Alternatively, such companies may build different and potentially proprietary user tracking methods into their widely-used web browsers. Although we believe we are well positioned to adapt and continue to provide key data insights to our media partners without cookies, this transition could be more disruptive, slower, or more expensive than we currently anticipate, and could materially affect the accuracy of our recommendations and ads and thus our ability to serve our advertisers, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to detect and prevent click fraud or other invalid engagements with the advertisements we serve, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, which would cause our business to suffer and negatively impact our financial results. Our success relies on delivering measurable business value to our advertisers. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent and otherwise invalid engagements that advertisers may perceive as undesirable. A major source of invalid engagements is click fraud in which a user, automated script or computer program intentionally engages with ads for reasons other than accessing the underlying content. If we are unable to detect and prevent such fraudulent or malicious activity, or other invalid engagements or if we choose to manage traffic quality in a way that advertisers find unsatisfactory, the affected advertisers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment in our platform, which could lead to dissatisfaction with our solutions, refusals to pay, refund demands or withdrawal of future business. This could damage our brand and lead to a financial loss or to a loss of advertisers which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business depends on our ability to maintain and scale our technology platform. Real or perceived errors or disruptions in our platform could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. We depend upon the sustained and uninterrupted operation of our platform to generate recommendations, serve ads, manage our content index, continually improve and analyze our data assets and optimize performance in real time. If our platform cannot scale to meet demand, or if there are errors, bugs, or other performance failures, including any related to our third-party service providers, in our execution of any of these functions on our platform, then our business may be harmed. Undetected bugs, defects, errors and other performance failures may occur, especially when we are implementing new solutions or features. Despite testing by us, errors in our platform may occur, which could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our solutions, increased costs or loss of revenue, loss of competitive position or claims by advertisers or media partners for losses sustained by them. We also face risks of disruptions of service from third-party interference with our platform and cyber-attacks. For such occurrences, our platform is designed with degradation features that enable us to turn off our recommendations and ads without producing white space on the media partners properties for the vast majority of our media partners. While we have robust systems in place to counter breaches and attacks, such as DoS (a technique used by hackers to take an Internet service offline by overloading its servers), attacks have occurred and we cannot guarantee that future attacks may not have dire consequences, including impacting what may be displayed on the properties of our media partners and advertisers. Disruptions to our platform and our servers could interrupt our ability to provide our solutions and materially affect our reputation, relationships with media partners and advertisers, business and results of operations. Moreover, alleviating problems resulting from errors or disruptions in our platform could require significant resources, which would adversely impact our financial position, and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Failures or loss of the hardware, software and infrastructure on which we rely, or security breaches, could adversely affect our business. We rely on owned and leased servers and other third-party hardware and infrastructure to support our operations. Our third-party data centers are co-located in three geographically separate locations managed by three different vendors in the United States. We do not control the operation of these facilities and such facilities could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. Further, our servers and data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures or similar catastrophic events. If a data center goes offline, an alternate data center would take over our serving and data storage needs, but our service may be slowed or degraded as a result until full data center operations are restored. We cannot assure you that future outages may not have material adverse consequences to our business. Moreover, if for any reason our arrangement with one or more of the providers of the servers that we use is terminated, we could incur additional expenses in establishing new facilities and support. We cannot predict the extent to which the ongoing and evolving COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting global economic uncertainty, and measures taken in response to the pandemic, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized the rapid spread of the COVID-19 disease as a pandemic. Since then, the COVID-19 disease (including its variant strains) has disrupted the global economy and put unprecedented strains on governments, health care systems, educational institutions, businesses, and individuals around the world, resulting in regional quarantines, labor shortages or stoppages, changes in consumer purchasing patterns, disruptions to the ability of service providers to deliver data on a timely basis, or at all, and overall economic instability. The impact on the global population and the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic is difficult to assess or predict. It is also difficult to predict the impact on the global economic market, which depends upon the actions of governments, businesses, and other enterprises in response to the pandemic and the effectiveness of those actions. The pandemic has already caused, and could result in further, significant disruption of global financial markets and economic uncertainty. Although the advertising market and our business have generally recovered from the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, it did initially impact our sales and operations adversely. Despite recovery, variables such as global supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and stoppages, and cost inflation impacted certain categories of advertisers, such as the automotive advertisers, and could adversely impact us in the future, including if our advertisers were to reduce or cut their advertising spend as a result of any of these factors. We continue to monitor our operations, and the operations of those in our ecosystem (including media partners, advertisers and agencies), as well as government recommendations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we required most employees to work remotely, suspended all non-essential travel worldwide for our employees, canceled or postponed company-sponsored events, and discouraged employee attendance at industry events and in-person work-related meetings. While we have rolled back or modified certain of these restrictions, we will continue to monitor the situation and adjust our current policies accordingly. The continuation of these restrictions or the implementation of any additional restrictions due to any resurgences or otherwise could negatively impact our marketing efforts, lengthen sales cycles, slow down our recruiting efforts, and/or create operational or other challenges, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. By contrast, as the economy recovers, pandemic concerns ease and employees return to the office, certain media partners have experienced a decline in traffic from the height of traffic during the work-from-home peak digital usage periods, and may experience further declines. As a result, by comparison to our 2020 results of operations, our results of operations in future periods may be unpredictable. We depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our future success depends upon contributions from our employees, in particular our senior management team. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. From time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team, and such changes may be disruptive to our business. Our growth strategy also depends on our ability to expand and retain our organization with highly skilled personnel. Identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. In addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining our best employees. Competition for highly skilled personnel in our industry has intensified over the last year and is expected to continue to be challenging in the future across all 28 Table of Contents our locations, particularly in New York City, where our headquarters is located, and in Israel and Slovenia, where we conduct the majority of our research and development activities. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity,and therefore may be impacted by our share performance, to attract and retain employees and we may not realize returns on these investments. If we are not able to effectively add and retain employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain it as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe our corporate culture has been a critical component of our success as we believe it fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork across our business, helping to drive our success. We cannot ensure we can effectively maintain our corporate culture as we continue to grow. As we expand and change, in particular across multiple geographies, following acquisitions, or in a more remote environment, it may be difficult to preserve our corporate culture, which could reduce our ability to innovate, create, and operate effectively. In turn, the failure to preserve our culture could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition by negatively affecting our ability to attract, recruit, integrate and retain employees, continue to perform at current levels, and effectively execute our business strategy. If currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our results of operations, which are reported in U.S. dollars, could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A sign ificant percentage of our international revenue is from advertisers who pay us in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We also incur operating expenses in local currencies, including with respect to employee compensation, at our offices outside of the United States and, most significantly, in Israel as well as the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies could result in the U.S. dollar equivalent of such foreign-denominated revenue being lower than would be the case if exchange rates were stable and the U.S. dollar equivalent of such expenses being higher. This could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. We evaluate periodically the various currencies to which we are exposed and take hedging measures to reduce the potential adverse impact from the appreciation or the depreciation of our non-U.S.-dollar-denominated operations, as appropriate. Any such strategies, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps related to transaction exposures that we may implement to mitigate this risk may not fully eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Our credit facility subjects us to operating restrictions and financial covenants that impose risk of default and may restrict our business and financing activities. On November 2, 2021, we entered into the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with SVB that provides a senior secured revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $75 million. Borrowings under this agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets of our parent entity and certain domestic subsidiary co-borrowers, including all accounts receivable and proceeds from sales of our intellectual property, and are subject to a negative pledge on our intellectual property in favor of SVB. The credit facili ty contains representations and warranties, including, without limitation, with respect to collateral; accounts receivable; financials; litigation, indictment and compliance with laws; disclosure and no material adverse effect, each of which is a condition to funding. This credit facility includes events of default an d is also subject to certain financial and other covenants, including, without limitation, restrictions on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, dispositions, restricted payments and prepayment of the 2.95% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 and of junior indebtedness. The credit facility contains a financial covenant that requires, in the event that credit extensions under the facility equal or exceed 85% of the available commitments under the Facility or upon the occurrence of an event of default, the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain a minimum consolidated monthly fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00. An inability to make the required representations and warranties, including with respect to collateral, accounts receivable, financials, litigation, indictment and compliance with laws, disclosures and no material adverse effect, may limit our ability borrow and/or the covenants may restrict our ability to finance our operations and to pursue our business activities and strategies. Our ability to makes these representations and warranties, and/or comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. Our ability to replace or supplement the existing facility may be limited due to various factors, including the status of our business, global credit market conditions, and perceptions of our business or industry by sources of financing. In addition, if credit is available, lenders may seek more restrictive covenants and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity, increase our costs, and reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not have or are unable to generate sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they become due and payable, either upon maturity or in the event of a default, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. 29 Table of Contents We may engage in strategic transactions, which may not yield a positive financial outcome. Further, such activity may result in the company operating in businesses beyond its current core business with risk factors beyond those which are identified here. From time to time, we may evaluate potential mergers and acquisitions or investment opportunities. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past. Any transactions that we enter into could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Acquisitions and investments carry with them a number of risks, including the following: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business; implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies of the acquired company; integration of financial systems; coordination of product, engineering and selling and marketing functions; retention of employees from the acquired company; unforeseen liabilities; litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; and in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Our failure to address these or other risks encountered in connection with acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, resulting in unanticipated liabilities and harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Legal or Regulatory Matters Our business is subject to political and regulatory risks in the various markets in which we operate; compliance with differing and changing regulatory requirements poses compliance challenges. Our business is subject to regulation, which is rapidly evolving, and the business and regulatory environment in each of the international markets in which we operate may differ. For example, regulations relating to our business, including our employees, our arrangements with media partners and advertisers, and privacy related regulations affect how we conduct our business. The following are some of the political and regulatory risks and challenges we face across jurisdictions: greater difficulty in enforcing contracts; higher costs of doing business internationally, including costs incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; risks associated with trade restrictions and foreign legal requirements, including any certification and localization of our platform that may be required in foreign countries; greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties; compliance with anti-bribery laws, including, without limitation, compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act; compliance with data collection and privacy law regimes of various countries; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets, including political and economic instability in some countries; the potential for heightened regulation relating to content curation or discovery as a result of concerns relating to the spread of disinformation through technology platforms; and double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the United States or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and regulations related to data privacy, data protection, and information security, and consumer protection across different markets where we conduct our business, including in the United States and Europe. Such laws, regulations, and industry requirements are constantly evolving and changing and could potentially impact data collection and data usage for advertising and recommendations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We receive, store, and process data about or related to users in addition to our media partners, advertisers, services providers and employees. Our handling of this data is subject to a variety of federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and is subject to regulation by various government authorities. Our data handling also is subject to contractual obligations and may be deemed to be subject to industry standards. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use, and storage of data relating to individuals, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the United States, various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure, and security of certain types of data. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data and issuing separate guidance in this area. If we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions that may not only expose us to litigation, fines, and civil and/or criminal penalties, but also require us to change our business practices as well as have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The regulatory framework for data privacy issues worldwide is evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The occurrence of unanticipated events often rapidly drives the adoption of legislation or regulation affecting the use, collection, or other processing of data and manners in which we conduct our business. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting or otherwise obtaining certain kinds of data and could limit the ways in which we may use or disclose information. In particular, interest-based advertising, or the use of data to draw inferences about a users interests and deliver relevant advertising to that user, and similar or related practices (sometimes referred to as interest-based advertising, behavioral advertising or personalized advertising), such as cross-device data collection and aggregation, steps taken to de-identify personal data, and to use and distribute the resulting data, including for purposes of personalization and the targeting of advertisements, have come under increasing scrutiny by legislative, regulatory, and self-regulatory bodies in the United States and abroad that focus on consumer protection or data privacy (and also by app platforms, as discussed above). Much of this scrutiny has focused on the use of cookies and other technologies to collect information about Internet users online browsing activity on web browsers, mobile devices, and other devices, to associate such data with user or device identifiers or de-identified identities across devices and channels. Because we rely upon large volumes of such data collected primarily through cookies and similar technologies, it is possible that these efforts may have a substantial impact on our ability to collect and use data from Internet users, and it is essential that we monitor developments in this area domestically and globally, and engage in responsible privacy practices, including providing users with notice of the types of data we collect and how we use that data to provide our services. In the United States, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures, along with federal regulatory authorities have recently increased their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In the United States, non-sensitive consumer data generally may be used under current rules and regulations, subject to certain restrictions, so long as the person does not affirmatively opt-out of the collection or use of such data. If an opt-in model or other more restrictive regulations were to be widely adopted in the United States, less data would be available, and could adversely affect our business. California enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, along with related regulations (together, the CCPA), which became effective in 2020. The CCPA creates individual privacy rights for California residents and increases the privacy and security obligations of businesses handling personal data. The CCPA is enforceable by the California Attorney General and there is also a private right of action relating to certain data security incidents. The CCPA generally requires covered businesses to, among other things, provide disclosures to California consumers and afford California consumers abilities to opt-out of the sharing of personal data between parties, a concept that is defined broadly, and behavioral advertising triggers such requirements under the CCPA. The CCPA or subsequent guidance may require us to further modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Decreased availability and increased costs of information could adversely affect our ability to meet our advertisers requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Additionally, starting in January 2023, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which was voted into law in November 2020 and amends the CCPA, imposes additional data protection obligations on certain businesses doing business in California, including honoring additional consumer rights and limiting the use and processing of personal data including sensitive data. In addition, the CPRA explicitly requires businesses to provide consumers with the right to opt-out of sharing of personal data with third parties for behavioral advertising. Accordingly, the CPRA could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The CCPA has led to copycat laws in other states across the country, such as in Virginia and Colorado, and likely in Connecticut, Florida, New York, Oklahoma, and Washington. This legislation may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions, and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources to compliance programs, and could impact strategies and availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs and/or changes in business practices and policies. Such new privacy laws add additional complexity, requirements, restrictions, and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources to compliance programs, and could impact trading strategies and availability of previously useful data. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) took effect on May 25, 2018 and applies to products and services that we provide in Europe, as well as the processing of personal data of European Economic Area (EEA) citizens, wherever that processing occurs. The GDPR includes operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the EEA that are different from those that were in place in the EEA prior to the GDPR. Failure to comply with GDPR, or its implementation in the United Kingdom through the Data Protection Act 2018 (UK GDPR), may result in significant penalties for non-compliance ranging from 10 million to 20 million or 2% to 4% of an enterprises global annual revenue, whichever is greater in the case of the GDPR or the greater of 17.5 million or 4% of the total worldwide turnover in the preceding financial year in the case of the United Kingdom. In addition to the foregoing, a breach of the GDPR or the UK GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease/change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. There is an increasing focus on compliance requirements with respect to the digital advertising ecosystem, including criticism that the Internet Advertising Bureau (IAB) Transparency & Consent Framework (TCF) is inherently incompatible with GDPR given the high velocity personal data trading. The Belgian Autorit de Protection des Donnes fined the IAB 250,000 in February 2022 because of alleged breaches of GDPR. The IAB has indicated that it will appeal the decision. In the interim, our publishers may need to implement changes to the TCF in order for Outbrain to continue personalizing recommendations. Further, in light of this decision, the industry may lose confidence in the TCF and further challenges to the TCF may undermine the viability of the TCF such that there is no industry standard for requesting and obtaining consent, all of which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and final condition. In addition, the UK Information Commissioners Office and the French Commission Nationale de lInformatique et de Liberts (CNIL) are investigating the ad tech industry and the use of cookies. Further, in the European Union, current national laws that implement the ePrivacy Directive (2002/58/EC) will be replaced by an EU Regulation, known as the ePrivacy Regulation, which will significantly increase fines for non-compliance and impose burdensome requirements around placing cookies. While the text of the ePrivacy Regulation is still under development, a European court decision and regulators recent guidance in the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) Fashion ID case are driving increased attention to cookies and tracking technologies. On April 7, 2021, the Austrian online privacy campaign group NYOB announced that it filed a complaint with the CNIL, against the use of the Google Android Advertising Identifier on the ground that users do not have the opportunity to meaningfully give consent to digital advertising and that this amounts to a violation of ePrivacy laws. As regulators start to enforce a strict approach (which has already begun to occur in Germany, where data protection authorities have initiated a probe into third-party cookies), this has led to systems changes, limits the effectiveness of our marketing activities, and diverts the attention of our technology personnel, and in the future may adversely affect our margins, increase costs, and subject us to additional liabilities. Though GDPR intended to harmonize the privacy and data protection laws across the EEA, member state interpretations of the law continue to vary making an already detailed regulatory framework increasingly complex to comply with. For example, some countries in the EU, such as France and Germany, have adopted a strict approach to the dropping of any cookies without consent, even if cookies are used strictly for technical delivery and not for personalization. Countries in the EU or the UK may adopt similar interpretations regarding strictly technical cookies. Though we developed technical solutions to comply with such cookie limitations, evolving interpretations of required limitations may result in unintended consequences with respect to our operations, such as fraud identification or user experience. 32 Table of Contents Any failure to achieve required data protection standards may result in lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liability, all of which may harm our results of operations. It is possible that CCPA, GDPR, UK GDPR and the ePrivacy Regulation in Europe and related standards may be interpreted and applied in manners that are, or are asserted to be, inconsistent with our data management practices or the technological features of our solutions. The risk is further exacerbated because of the evolving interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us or our advertisers. We are members of self-regulatory bodies that impose additional requirements related to the collection, use, and disclosure of consumer data. Under the requirements of these self-regulatory bodies, in addition to other compliance obligations, we are obligated to provide consumers with notice about our use of cookies and other technologies to collect consumer data and of our collection and use of consumer data for certain purposes, and to provide consumers with certain choices relating to the use of consumer data. Some of these self-regulatory bodies have the ability to discipline members or participants, which could result in fines, penalties, and/or public censure (which could in turn cause reputational harm). Additionally, some of these self-regulatory bodies might refer violations of their requirements to the Federal Trade Commission or other regulatory bodies. If we were to be found responsible for such a violation, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If media partners, advertisers, and data providers do not obtain necessary and requisite consents from consumers for us to process their personal data, we could be subject to fines and liability. Pursuant to GDPR, the UK GDPR and related ePrivacy laws, media partners and any downstream partners are required to obtain unambiguous consent from EEA data subjects to process their personal data, which the industry has addressed through the release and widespread adoption of the IAB TCF in April 2018 and subsequent 2.0 update in August 2020. Because we do not have direct relationships with users, we rely on media partners, advertisers, and data providers, as applicable, to implement notice or choice mechanisms required under applicable laws, and transmit notification of the consent (or no consent) of the user to us. Where applicable, we may only use user data to deliver interest-based advertisements where we have consent. If media partners, advertisers, or data providers do not follow the process (and in any event as the legal requirements in this area continue to evolve and develop), we could be subject to fines and liability. We may not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnity arrangements to protect us against any such claims and losses. Rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield as a lawful means for transferring personal data from the EEA or the UK to the United States; this introduces increased uncertainty and may require us to change our EEA/UK data practices and/or rely on an alternative legally sufficient compliance measure. The GDPR and the UK GDPR, generally prohibit the transfer of personal data of EEA/UK subjects outside of the EEA/UK, unless a lawful data transfer solution has been implemented or a data transfer derogation applies. On July 16, 2020, in a case known as Schrems II, the CJEU ruled on the validity of two of the primary data transfer solutions. The first method, EU-U.S. Privacy Shield operated by the U.S. Department of Commerce (the Privacy Shield), was declared invalid as a legal mechanism to transfer data from EEA/UK to the United States. As a result, despite the fact that we had certified our compliance to the Privacy Shield, we can no longer rely on this mechanism as a lawful means to transfer EEA/UK data to us in the United States. While the United States and the European Union are in discussions regarding a replacement to the Privacy Shield, we cannot predict if it will happen or if it does, what impact it will have on our business and industry. The second mechanism, the UK and EEA Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs), were upheld as valid legal mechanisms for transnational data transfer. However, the ruling requires that European organizations seeking to rely on the EU SCCs to export data out of the EEA ensure the data is protected to a standard that is essentially equivalent to that in the EEA including, where necessary, by taking supplementary measures to protect the data. Since the July 28, 2021 UK Adequacy Decision, we rely on such decision for the transfer of data from the EEA to the UK, and the UK SCCs transfers from the UK to the US, with supplementary measures as per the June 2021 European Data Protection Guidelines. Despite such decision, more recent rulings from the Austrian Datenschutzbehrde and the French Commission de lInformatique et des Liberts (CNIL) stated that publishers using Google Analytics are breaching GDPR because the data is sent to the U.S. and Google does not have sufficient protective measures in place for such transfer. It remains unclear whether supplemental measures for the transfer of data outside of the UK and EEA will be deemed sufficient by media partners, regulatory bodies and courts and, if found to be inadequate, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents In the event that use of the SCCs or relying on the UK adequacy decision is subsequently invalidated as a solution for data transfers to the United States, or there are additional changes to the data protection regime in the EEA/UK resulting in any inability to transfer personal data from the EEA/UK to the United States in compliance with data protection laws, European media partners and advertisers may be more inclined to work with businesses that do not rely on such compliance mechanisms to ensure legal and regulatory compliance, such as EEA/UK-based companies or other competitors that do not need to transfer personal data to the United States in order to avoid the above-identified risks and legal issues. Such changes could cause us to incur penalties under GDPR or UK GDPR, could increase the cost and complexity of operating our business, or adversely impact adverse our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If the security of the confidential information or personal data of our media partners and the users of our media partner properties stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. We believe that we take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent (e.g., software bugs or other technical malfunctions, employee error or malfeasance, or other factors) or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. To reduce our vulnerability, we have a dedicated information security team responsible for improving and coordinating security across the company. We (i) conduct routine employee training sessions and onboarding security training, including phishing simulation, to increase awareness of phishing and other cyber threats; (ii) require multi-factor authentication access methods for all employees into our network; (iii) operate general monitoring and service protections that are subject to continuous enhancements to detect and mitigate various threats, including performing ongoing manual and automatic vulnerability assessment tests; (iv) manage an ongoing cyber risk-management framework to assess internal technological changes, as well as external systems and services as part of supply chain risk; and (v) maintain ISO 27001 security certification. However, since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access frequently evolve, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If our security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our users data, our relationships with our users may be damaged, and we could incur significant liability and reputational harm. In addition, some jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data, and our agreements with certain partners require us to notify them in the event of a security incident. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach sometimes lead to negative publicity and may cause our users, media partners or advertisers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. In the European Union/United Kingdom a data breach involving personal data will generally require notification of the national Information Commissioners Office and, where the risk to individuals is high, notification of the affected individuals themselves. In the European Union/United Kingdom there is a possibility of significant fines being imposed in the event of a security breach. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation, and we could lose users or fail to acquire new users, media partners or advertisers, all of whom may, in addition, have claims against us as a result of a security breach. Users also may be able to bring a class action against us. In addition, security breaches of our media partners, advertisers, vendors or other third parties working with us could also have a negative impact on our reputation and operations. Any governmental investigations, legal proceedings, or claims against us could result in liability, harm our reputation and could be costly and time-consuming to defend. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation claims, whether arising in connection with employment or commercial matters, including certain terms in our commercial agreements. We also may be exposed to potential claims brought by third parties against us, our media partners or our advertisers. Such claims may allege, for example, that our advertisers recommendations (including the destination page reached) infringe the intellectual property or other rights of third parties, is false, deceptive, misleading or offensive, or that our advertisers products are defective or harmful. In addition, we may be involved in regulatory issues and government investigations, including, but not limited to, actions relating to competition law. For example, on April 29, 2021, we were notified that the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation into the hiring activities in our industry that includes us. We continue to cooperate with the Antitrust Division. While there can be no assurance regarding the ultimate resolution of this matter, we do not believe that our conduct violated applicable law. Our reputation as a business with high standards of regulatory compliance depends in part on our media partners and advertisers adherence to laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions concerning copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights, unfair competition, privacy and data protection, and truth in-advertising, and their use of our platform in ways 34 Table of Contents consistent with users expectations. In general, we require our media partners and advertisers to comply with all applicable laws, including all applicable intellectual property, privacy and data protection regulations. We rely on contractual representations from media partners and advertisers that they will comply with all such applicable laws. We make reasonable efforts to enforce contractual notice requirements, but, due to the nature of our business, we are unable to audit fully our media partners and advertisers compliance with our recommended disclosures or with applicable laws and regulations. If our media partners or advertisers were to breach their contractual or other requirements in this regard, or a court or governmental agency were to determine that we, our media partners and/or our advertisers failed to comply with any applicable law, then we may be subject to potentially adverse publicity, damages and related possible investigation, litigation or other regulatory activity. In addition, any perception that we, our media partners and/or our advertisers fail to comply with current or future regulations and industry practices, may expose us to public criticism, collective redress actions, reputational harm or claims by regulators, which could disrupt our industry and/or operations and expose us to increased liability. In some instances, we may be required to indemnify media partners against such claims with respect to our advertisers campaigns. Therefore, we may require our advertisers to indemnify us for any damages from any such claim, although in certain cases we may not be so indemnified. We cannot assure prospective investors that our advertisers will have the ability to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, in whole, in part or at all, and pursuing any claims for indemnification may be costly or unsuccessful. As a result, we may be required to satisfy indemnification obligations to media partners, or claims against us, with our own assets. As a result of any of the above, we could become involved in litigation or governmental investigations, whether on our own, or involving or concerning our media partners or advertisers, including class action claims, and, as a result, may become subject to significant liability, including claims for damages and financial penalties. Claims may be expensive to defend, divert managements attention from our business operations, and affect the cost and availability of insurance, even if we ultimately prevail. If any of this occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, financial position, competitive position and prospects. We may be unable to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information or prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of confidentiality clauses, trade secrets, copyrights, patents and trademarks to protect our intellectual property and know-how. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties, including our employees, consultants, service providers, media partners or advertisers, to copy our products and/or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary to create solutions and services that compete with ours. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our trade secrets or technology or infringement of our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to our proprietary information and other intellectual property. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our solutions. We may from time to time be subject to claims of prior use, opposition or similar proceedings with respect to applications for registrations of our intellectual property, including but not limited to our trademarks and patent applications. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, and any of our pending or future patent or trademark applications, whether or not challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. We are unable to guarantee that patents or trademarks will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents or trademarks issue, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. We rely on our brand and trademarks to identify our solutions to our media partners and advertisers and to differentiate our solutions from those of our competitors. If we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, third parties may use our brand names or trademarks similar to ours in a manner that may cause confusion to our users or confusion in the market, or dilute our brand names or trademarks, which could decrease the value of our brand. 35 Table of Contents From time to time, we may discover that third parties are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. However, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property and misappropriation of our technology is difficult and we may therefore not always be aware of such unauthorized use or misappropriation. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to use, copy or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop solutions with the same or similar functionality as our solutions. If competitors infringe, misappropriate or otherwise misuse our intellectual property rights and we are not adequately protected, or if such competitors are able to develop solutions with the same or similar functionality as ours without infringing our intellectual property, our competitive position and results of operations could be harmed and our legal costs could increase. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use technology or intellectual property. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. There is a risk that our business, platform, and services may infringe or be alleged to infringe the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents held by our competitors or by non-practicing entities. We may also face allegations that our employees have misappropriated or divulged the intellectual property of their former employers or other third parties. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, the claims are time consuming, divert management attention and financial resources and are costly to evaluate and defend. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the cost of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater extent and for longer periods of time than we could. Results of these litigation matters are difficult to predict and may require us to stop offering some features, purchase licenses, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, or modify our technology or our platform while we develop non-infringing substitutes, or incur significant settlement costs. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our platform relies on third-party open source software components. Failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could expose us to liabilities, and the combination of open source software with code that we develop could compromise the proprietary nature of our platform. Our platform utilizes software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses and we expect to continue to utilize open source software in the future. The use of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. To the extent that our platform depends upon the successful operation of the open source software we use, any undetected errors or defects in this open source software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our platform, delay new solutions introductions, result in a failure of our platform, and injure our reputation. For example, undetected errors or defects in open source software could render it vulnerable to breaches or security attacks, and, in conjunction, make our systems more vulnerable to data breaches. Furthermore, some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a specific manner, we could, under some open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar solutions with lower development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our platform to conditions we do not intend, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our platform will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue operating using our solution on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our solution or the supporting computational infrastructure to discontinue use of code, or to make generally available, in source code form, portions of our proprietary code. We are required to comply with international advertising regulations in connection with the distribution of advertising, including potential regulation or oversight of native advertising disclosure standards. Failure to comply could negatively impact us, our media partners and/or our advertisers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents We are subject to complex and changing advertising regulations in many jurisdictions in which we operate, including regulatory and self-regulatory requirements to comply with native advertising regulations in connection with the advertising we distribute for our advertisers. For example, in the United States, the Federal Trade Commission requires that all online advertising meet certain principles, including the clear and conspicuous disclosure of advertisements. If we, or our advertisers, make mistakes in implementing this varied and evolving guidance, or our commitments with respect to these principles, we could be subject to negative publicity, government investigation, government or private litigation, or investigation by self-regulatory bodies or other accountability groups. Any such action against us could be costly and time consuming and may require us to change our business practices, cause us to divert managements attention and our resources and be damaging to our reputation and our business. Moreover, additional or different disclosures may lead to a reduction in user engagement, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Risks Related to Taxation Our tax liabilities may be greater than anticipated. The U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws applicable to our business activities are subject to interpretation and are changing. We are subject to audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and by taxing authorities of the state, local and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value, use and hold our intellectual property, the jurisdictions in which we operate, how tax authorities assess revenue-based taxes such as sales and use taxes, the scope of our international operations, and the value we ascribe to our intercompany transactions. Taxing authorities may challenge, and have challenged, our tax positions and methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, positions regarding the collection of sales and use taxes, and the jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxes, which could expose us to additional taxes. Any adverse outcomes of such challenges to our tax positions could result in additional taxes for prior periods, interest and penalties, as well as higher future taxes. In addition, our future tax expense could increase as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, or as a result of earning income in jurisdictions that have higher tax rates. For example, the European Commission has proposed, and various jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting laws that impose separate taxes on specified digital services, which may increase our tax obligations in such jurisdictions. Digital services or other similar taxes could, among other things, increase our tax expense, create significant administrative burdens for us, discourage potential customers from subscribing to our platform due to the incremental cost of any such sales or other related taxes, or otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant estimates and judgment by management, and the tax treatment of certain transactions is uncertain. Given uncertainty with respect to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, the income tax benefit/expense we record may vary significantly in future periods. Any changes, ambiguity, or uncertainty in taxing jurisdictions administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions, including the position of taxing authorities with respect to revenue generated by reference to certain digital services, could also materially impact our income tax liabilities. Although we believe that our estimates and judgments are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any particular issue may differ from the amounts previously recorded in our financial statements and any such occurrence could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Future events may impact our deferred tax asset position including deferred tax assets related to our utilization of net operating losses (NOLs, each a NOL) and U.S. deferred federal income taxes on undistributed earnings of international affiliates that are considered to be reinvested indefinitely. We evaluate our ability to utilize deferred tax assets and our need for valuation allowances based on available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment regarding assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be utilized. In making this determination, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments (either increases or decreases), to a deferred tax asset valuation allowance are determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The utilization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in carry-forward periods under the applicable tax law. Due to significant estimates used to establish a valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is possible that we will be required to record adjustments to a valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Changes to a valuation allowance or the amount of deferred taxes could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, while we have no current intention to do so in the foreseeable future, should we change our assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries, a deferred tax liability may need to be established. 37 Table of Contents The ability to fully utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards to offset its post-change income may be limited. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% or greater stockholders that exceeds 50% over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOL carryforwards or other pre-change tax attributes to offset United States federal and state taxable income may be subject to limitations. Any such limitations on the ability to use our NOL carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of the shares of our common stock is likely to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Technology stocks historically have experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to do so. These fluctuations could cause you to incur substantial losses, including all of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the digital advertising industry in particular; announcements of new solutions or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions, or other events by us or our competitors; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; changes in how advertisers perceive the benefits of our platform and future offerings; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements, and filings with the SEC; the trading of or conversion of our Convertible Notes; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; sales of large blocks of our common stock; actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations; changes in actual or future expectations of investors or securities analysts; litigation involving us, our industry, or both;. governmental or regulatory actions or audits; regulatory developments applicable to our business, including those related to privacy in the United States or globally; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events in our domestic and foreign markets; and departures of key employees. In addition, if the market for technology stocks, the stock of digital advertising companies or the stock market, in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in the digital advertising industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation is instituted against us, we could incur substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources. In addition, repurchases pursuant to our share repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a share repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the programs effectiveness. Furthermore, the program does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock, and may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time and any suspension or discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. 38 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares, change their opinion of our business prospects or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price may decline. If one or more of these analysts who cover us ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. We have broad discretion in the use of proceeds from our IPO and may invest or spend the proceeds in ways with which investors do not agree and in ways that may not yield a return. We are using the net proceeds from our IPO for working capital and general corporate purposes, including research and development expenditures focused on product development and sales and marketing expenditures aimed at growing our business. We may also use the net proceeds to make acquisitions or investments in complementary companies or technologies. Consequently, our management has broad discretion over the specific use of these net proceeds and may use such proceeds in a way with which our investors disagree. The failure by our management to apply and invest these funds effectively may not yield a favorable return to our investors and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from our IPO in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. If we do not use the net IPO proceeds effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline and may make it more difficult for you to sell your stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate, as a result of substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. Our directors, executive officers and employees hold options and restricted stock units under our equity incentive plans, and the shares issuable upon the exercise of such options or vesting of such restricted stock units have been registered for public resale under the Securities Act. Accordingly, these shares will be able to be freely sold in the public market upon issuance subject to certain legal and contractual requirements. A small number of significant beneficial owners of our common stock acting together have a significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, which could delay or prevent a change of control. The largest beneficial owners of our common stock, an entity affiliated with Lightspeed Venture Partners, Viola Ventures III, L.P., entities affiliated with Gemini Israel Ventures, entities affiliated with Index Ventures, Gruner + Jahr GmbH, and Yaron Galai together beneficially owned an aggregate 41.7% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2021. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, could exercise significant infl uence over our operations and business strategy since they have sufficient voting power to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. These matters may include: the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; raising future capital; and amending our certificate of incorporation which governs the rights attached to our common stock. This concentration of ownership of our shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. 39 Table of Contents Failure to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, on a quarterly basis, material changes made in our internal control over financial reporting. We will also be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the first complete fiscal year after our IPO. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse if it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. As a newly public company, we have undertaken and continue to undertake a range of actions to augment our internal control over financial reporting. These include implementing new internal