Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 7, 2025 (2024 Form 10-K). In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, beliefs, and expectations, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, events, or circumstances to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2024 Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference in this Report, as such factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent filings with the SEC, as well as those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, including under the caption Note About Forward-Looking Statements. The purpose of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is to provide the readers of our financial statements with narrative information from our management, which is necessary to understand our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we use certain non-GAAP financial measures throughout this discussion to provide investors with supplemental metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision making. These measures are supplemental and are not an alternative to our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Business Overview Outbrain Inc. (Outbrain) was incorporated in August 2006 in Delaware. On February 3, 2025, Outbrain completed the acquisition (Acquisition) of TEADS, a private limited liability company (socit responsabilit limite) incorporated and existing under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (Legacy Teads). The consideration paid at the closing of the Acquisition was approximately $0.9 billion. Upon closing, we began operating under the new Teads brand and on June 6, 2025, we completed our corporate name change from Outbrain Inc. to Teads Holding Co. (together with its subsidiaries, Teads, the Company, we, our, or us). Teads Holding Co.s common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the Common Stock), trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the new TEAD ticker symbol effective June 10, 2025. The Company is headquartered in New York, New York with various wholly-owned subsidiaries, including in Europe, the Middle East and Asia. As a result of the Acquisition, our results of operations include the results of the acquired business from February 3, 2025 through September 30, 2025. Accordingly, the financial information presented as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 is not directly comparable to our financial information presented for the corresponding prior year periods. Teads is the omnichannel outcomes platform for the Open Internet, driving full-funnel results for marketers across premium media. With a focus on meaningful business outcomes for branding and performance objectives, we drive value with every media dollar by leveraging predictive AI technology to connect quality media, beautiful brand creative, and context-driven addressability and measurement. We operate a two-sided marketplace, which together, creates a scaled end-to-end advertising solution. We have direct relationships with both (i) global advertisers including Fortune 500 brands, agency holding companies, and small-to-medium sized businesses, and (ii) media owners spanning premium publishers to connected TV (CTV) platforms. We believe that CTV is an example of our investment in and expansion into high-growth channels. CTV positions our platform to capture increasing advertiser spend as it continues its shift from linear television into on-demand television. We generate revenue from advertisers purchasing media owner inventory through our platforms. Our platform is designed to enable advertisers to not only reach their audiences across the entire Open Internet from web, to CTV, to app environments but to drive outcomes from those audiences at each step of the marketing funnel. These outcomes include completed views, post-click engagement, brand uplift, sign-ups, sales, and more. Our solution is designed to directly address the largest challenges in the advertising industry today including inefficient supply chains and fragmentation, quality and scale of inventory, and the ability to correlate advertising investment to concrete business outcomes. For advertisers and their agencies, we offer a single access point to scaled audiences across premium, curated media environments, with technology solutions that we believe drive outcomes from branding to performance. For media owners, we provide both sustainable, year-round advertising revenue and technology solutions designed to more deeply engage and retain audiences. 37 By combining the respective sets of exclusive media inventory of Outbrain and Legacy Teads, from publishers to CTV, we believe that we provide a more connected consumer experience across the Open Internet. The following is a summary of our performance for the periods presented, which incorporate the results of operations for Legacy Teads from February 3, 2025 through September 30, 2025: Our revenue was $318.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $224.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2024, including net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $5.0 million. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 was $948.2 million, compared to $655.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $7.8 million. Our gross profit was $105.7 million and our gross margin was 33.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to gross profit of $48.9 million and gross margin of 21.8% for the comparable period in 2024. Our gross profit was $308.7 million and our gross margin was 32.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to gross profit of $136.0 million and gross margin of 20.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) was $130.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $59.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2024. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) was $377.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $167.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Our net loss was $19.7 million, or (18.6)% of gross profit, in the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net income of $6.7 million, or 13.7% of gross profit, for the comparable period in 2024. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, our net loss was $88.8 million, or (28.8)% of gross profit, compared to net loss of $0.5 million, or (0.4)% of gross profit, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Our Adjusted EBITDA(1) was $19.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $11.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Adjusted EBITDA(1) was 14.7% and 19.3% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) in the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our Adjusted EBITDA(1) was $56.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $20.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Adjusted EBITDA(1) was 15.0% and 12.1% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. ______________________ (1)Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the comparable GAAP financial measures. Recent Developments Acquisition of Teads On August 1, 2024, we entered into a definitive share purchase agreement (the Share Purchase Agreement) with Altice Teads S.A. (the Seller or Altice Teads), a public limited liability company (socit anonyme) incorporated and existing under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the sole shareholder of Legacy Teads, and Legacy Teads. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, we agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Legacy Teads on the terms and conditions set forth in the Share Purchase Agreement. On February 3, 2025, the parties entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Share Purchase Agreement, which revised certain terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, including the consideration paid at the closing of the Acquisition. On February 3, 2025, we completed the Acquisition for an aggregate closing day consideration of approximately $0.9 billion, including $625 million in cash, subject to certain customary adjustments, and 43.75 million shares of Common Stock. Following the closing, the Seller owns approximately 46.6% of the Companys issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock (based on the amount of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of December 31, 2024). We believe that the Acquisition created one of the largest Open Internet advertising platforms, which is differentiated by our ability to drive outcomes for awareness, consideration, and performance objectives, across CTV, web and mobile applications. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded Acquisition and integration costs of approximately $3.7 million and $25.5 million, respectively. See Note 2 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Acquisition. 38 2025 Restructuring Plan On February 3, 2025, in connection with the completion of the Acquisition, we announced a restructuring plan (the Plan), involving a reduction in workforce, as part of our efforts to streamline operations and reduce duplication of roles. We estimate that we will incur approximately $11 million to $14 million in charges in connection with the Plan, of which approximately $9 million to $11 million is expected to be incurred in 2025. These charges will consist primarily of severance and related costs. The actions associated with the employee restructuring under the Plan were initiated in February 2025 and were implemented in large part in the second quarter of 2025, and are expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2026. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, the Company recorded associated non-cash charges of approximately $0.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively (see Note 3 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information). The estimates of the charges and expenditures that the Company expects to incur in connection with the Plan, and the timing thereof, are subject to a number of assumptions, and actual amounts may differ materially from estimates. In addition, the Company may incur other charges or cash expenditures not currently contemplated due to unanticipated events that may occur, including in connection with the implementation of the Plan. Credit Agreements In connection with the entry into the Share Purchase Agreement on August 1, 2024, the Company entered into a debt commitment letter, dated August 1, 2024, with Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Jefferies Finance LLC and Mizuho Bank, LTD, pursuant to which these parties committed to provide (i) a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility and (ii) a senior secured bridge facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $750 million. Subsequently, on February 3, 2025 (the Credit Facilities Closing Date or Acquisition Closing Date), in connection with the completion of the Acquisition, Outbrain and our wholly-owned subsidiary, OT Midco Inc. (Midco), entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) among the Company, Midco, the additional borrowers party thereto from time to time, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as sole administrative agent and swingline lender, U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as the collateral agent, and the lenders, issuing banks and arrangers party thereto from time to time. The Credit Agreement provided for (a) a super senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million (the 2025 Revolving Facility) and (b) a senior secured bridge term loan credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $625.0 million (the Bridge Facility and, together with the Revolving Facility, the Credit Facilities). See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below and Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Credit Facilities. On the Credit Facilities Closing Date, Midco borrowed $625 million in aggregate principal amount under the Bridge Facility (the Bridge Loans). The proceeds of the Bridge Loans were used to finance the consideration for the Acquisition and to pay related transaction fees, costs and expenses. Further, on the Credit Facilities Closing Date, in connection with the entry into the Credit Agreement described above, the Company terminated the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2021, by and among the Company, Silicon Valley Bank, a division of First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Zemanta Holding USA Inc. and Zemanta Inc. Senior Secured Notes On February 11, 2025, Midco completed a private offering (the Offering) of $637.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 10.000% senior secured notes due 2030 (the Notes) at an issue price of 98.087% of the principal amount thereof in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below and Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Notes. The proceeds from the Offering were used, together with cash on hand, to repay in full and cancel the indebtedness incurred under the Bridge Facility, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon, that was used to finance and pay costs related to the Acquisition, as well as pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Offering and the Bridge Facility refinancing. On June 17, 2025, the Company completed the repurchase of $9.3 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes for $8.0 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a discount of approximately 17% to the principal amount of the repurchased Notes. 39 Impairment of vi In March 2025, in connection with the post-merger integration of the newly acquired Teads business, we made a decision to discontinue the video product offering associated with our prior acquisition of vi. Accordingly, during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded impairment charges totaling $15.5 million to fully write off the associated intangible assets and capitalized software, as further described below and in Note 5 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. Conditions in Israel Many of our employees, including certain members of our management team and board of directors (Board), operate from our offices in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region directly affect our business and operations. Following the October 7, 2023 attacks by Hamas terrorists on Israel's southern border, Israel declared war against Hamas and since then, Israel has been involved in military conflicts with Hamas, Hezbollah, a terrorist organization based in Lebanon, and Iran, both directly and through proxies like the Houthi movement in Yemen and armed groups in Iraq and other terrorist organizations. Additionally, following the fall of the Assad regime in Syria, Israel conducted limited military operations targeting the Syrian army, Iranian military assets and infrastructure linked to Hezbollah and other Iran-supported groups. Although certain cease-fire agreements have been reached with Hamas and Lebanon (with respect to Hezbollah), these agreements failed to be upheld and military activity and hostilities continue to exist at varying levels of intensity, and the situation remains volatile, with the potential for escalation into a broader regional conflict involving additional terrorist organizations and possibly other countries. In June 2025, a new round of direct hostilities broke out between Israel and Iran, involving significant missile and drone strikes exchanged between the two countries. This escalation and other regional events have heightened regional instability and increased security risks across Israel. These events have resulted in significant travel restrictions, facility closures and shelter-in-place orders, including remote work measures, in various locations, and may further impact critical infrastructure, supply chains, and the broader Israeli economy. In October 2025, a cease-fire was brokered between Israel and Hamas. However, we cannot predict if and to what extent this cease-fire will remain in effect or upheld. The draft of Israeli military reservists, as well as the evacuation of Israeli citizens from areas near conflict zones have adversely affected our employees impacted by such actions. In addition, future government-imposed restrictions and precautions in response to such conflicts may negatively impact our employees, management and directors by interrupting their ability to effectively perform their roles and responsibilities. In addition, further hostilities involving Israel, possible damage to facilities and infrastructure, increased cyber attacks, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, and/or the willingness to do business with companies with operations in Israel, as well as macroeconomic indications of deterioration of Israels economic standing as reflected in the downgrading in Israels credit rating by rating agencies that took place in parallel to these events, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. The intensity and duration of the conflict between Israel and Hamas and the sustainability of the related cease-fire, as well as the conflicts with Hezbollah and other terror organizations and Iran and other countries are difficult to predict and we are continuing to monitor the situation and assessing its potential impact on our business. We cannot attribute the impact of the current trends in advertising demand to any particular factor, including the conditions in Israel, and cannot predict the impact if the war continues or escalates further. See Item 1A Risk Factors included in our 2024 Form 10-K for more information regarding certain risks associated with the conditions in Israel. Recent Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Together with those risk factors we have identified in the 2024 Form 10-K, we have identified the following important factors that could impact our future financial performance or condition: In the second and third quarters of 2025, we faced operational challenges in returning to growth while implementing the complex integration of two similarly scaled companies. During the third quarter of 2025, we restructured our go-to-market organization and implemented several measures related to our organizational leadership, structure and processes. While these changes have resulted in measurable improvements in leading indicators, they have not yet translated into revenues at the pace we anticipated. We are seeing an increase in new business-generating meetings, a growing pipeline, and a shift in the trajectory of cross-sell revenue. Despite this progress in early-stage metrics, the impact of these improvements on revenue is nascent and has been influenced by factors such as increased competition, advertiser volatility, and agency relationships in certain geographies and verticals. Accordingly, we continue to see a lower rate of sales, a lagging indicator, in the following key countries: the U.S., the United Kingdom and France. 40 We are facing a changing eco-system, including declining traffic trends on the traditional publisher side of the Open Internet, and increased competition on the demand side. The proliferation of generative AI tools, particularly their integration into major search engines and web browsers, is causing a shift in how users discover and consume content online. These tools can provide users with direct answers and AI-generated summaries, which has reduced their need to click through to original publisher websites. This trend of bypassing the traditional user journey to a publishers site has led to a decline in direct user traffic across the Open Internet. For a representative segment of our premium publisher partners, we have observed this trend result in an approximate 10% to 15% decline in paid page views. A reduction in traffic to our media partners directly decreases the inventory of advertising impressions available for us to monetize, which has affected and continues to affect our revenue and results of operations. Our legacy Outbrain DSP business also experienced headwinds, including from the clean-up of underperforming supply partners and other quality control changes. These changes had a meaningful impact, with a small number of customers spending a combined $30.0 million less on our platform year over year, driving a $5.0 million decline in year over year Ex-TAC Gross Profit. During the third quarter, we engaged an external consulting firm to conduct a comprehensive review of our business to identify opportunities to restore growth and improve profitability. This review provided analysis and specific implementation plans regarding the rationalization of our business portfolio, our operational and organizational structure, and potential further efficiencies, which are being converted into a detailed execution plan. Macroeconomic Environment General worldwide economic conditions have experienced significant instability, as well as volatility and disruption in the financial markets, resulting from factors including geopolitical tensions, including the effects of the war between Russia-Ukraine, the conflict between Israel-Hamas and the sustainability of the related cease-fire, the conflict between Israel-Iran and the uncertain trajectories of such conflicts, tariffs and trade wars, new and proposed legislation in the U.S., the impact of the U.S. government shutdown, general economic uncertainty, inflation, increased interest rates, recessionary concerns, bankruptcies, currency exchange rate fluctuations, global supply chain disruptions, and labor market volatility. The global economy is also experiencing heightened uncertainty in part due to market reactions to changes in tariff policies, which have the potential to further exacerbate inflationary pressures, with the duration of any such impact remaining uncertain. These conditions have negatively impacted our advertisers and, as a result, our business and could, if they continue or worsen further, adversely impact us in the future, including if our advertisers were to reduce or further reduce their advertising spending as a result of any of these factors. We continue to monitor our operations, and the operations of those in our ecosystem (including media partners, advertisers, and agencies), but these conditions make it difficult for us, our media partners, advertisers, and agencies to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and they could cause a further reduction or delay in overall advertising demand and spending or impact our advertisers ability to pay, any of which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Factors Affecting Our Business Advertiser Retention and Growth Our engine serves the ad experiences that are predicted to deliver high attention or engagement, rather than prioritizing simply based on price of the ads. We believe this approach leads to better return on advertiser spend (ROAS) for advertisers, whether they are focused on driving a performance outcome, or a branding outcome. Our growth is partially driven by retaining and expanding the amount of spend by advertisers on our platform, as well as by acquiring new advertisers. Through the Acquisition, we have expanded our total addressable market to now include top of the funnel marketing, while also attracting more diverse, premium demand. We view our full-funnel offering of both branding and performance capabilities as an opportunity to increase our share of wallet from advertisers and agencies. In addition, our joint business partnerships, or JBPs, represent a significant overall portion of our revenue and are strategic for driving advertiser retention and growth. We continually invest in enhancements to our platform that allow advertisers to drive concrete business outcomes and ROAS. In particular, we are expanding our usage of AI to automate manual tasks in campaign set up and optimization, and to enhance advertiser creative and landing page performance. We also support advertisers with developing creative ads across formats, as a value added service to our advertisers. Prices paid by advertisers on our platform fluctuate period to period for a variety of reasons, including supply and demand balance, macroeconomic conditions, and seasonality. In order to grow our revenue and Ex-TAC Gross Profit and maximize value for our advertisers and media partners, our focus as a business is on driving business outcomes and ROAS for advertisers, not on optimizing for price. 41 For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, tens of thousands unique advertisers were active on our owned and operated platforms, in addition to the thousands of advertisers who access the platform through programmatic partnerships. User Engagement with Relevant Media and Advertising Content Driving attention and engagement is the key pillar of our platform that drives value for consumers, media partners, and advertisers. Our AI prediction engine manages this dynamic, matching consumers with editorial and advertiser experiences that will deliver attention and engagement across the Open Internet. We believe that the user experience has a profound impact on long-term user behavior patterns and thus compounds over time, improving our long-term monetization prospects. This principle guides our behavior and, as a result, we strive to compound consumer attention and engagement, continually enhancing value for both advertisers and media owners. Growth in attention and engagement is driven by several factors, including enhancements to our AI prediction engine, growth in the breadth and depth of our data assets, the size and quality of our content and advertising index, user engagement, new media partners, expansion on existing media partners and expansion to new media environments and formats. As we grow attention and engagement, we are able to collect more data and continually improve our prediction engine, which drives better results for our advertiser and media owner partners. This growth flywheel can be measured by growth of the consumer data points we drive, such as click-through-rate (CTR). CTR improvements increase the number of clicks on our platform. We believe that we have a significant opportunity to further grow consumer engagement, and thus our business, as today CTR for ads on the Outbrain platform is less than 1% of ads served. Retention and Growth of Relationships with Media Partners We rely on our relationships with our media partners for our advertising inventory and our corresponding ability to drive advertising revenue. To further strengthen these relationships, we continuously invest in our technology and product functionality to drive user engagement and monetization by taking steps designed to (i) improve our algorithms, referred to as our AI prediction engine; (ii) attract and procure relevant demand; (iii) expand the adoption of our enhanced products by media partners; and (iv) expand our demand capabilities to new formats. Our relationships with media partners are typically long-term, exclusive, and strategic in nature. Our top 20 media partners leveraged our platform for an average of 7 years (based on 2024 revenue), despite their typical contract length being two to four years. Our growth depends on media partners ability to drive traffic to their sites and generate page views. The proliferation of social media properties, streaming services and other platforms, as well as the adoption of AI have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our media partners growth. Expansion Into New Environments, New Experiences and New Ad Formats The available mediums and formats for consumers to engage with media has greatly expanded over the last several years. As this evolution in media consumption and consumer behavior continues, we are focused on utilizing our AI prediction technology to bring curated, relevant consumer experiences to these new devices, experiences and formats. Fundamentally, we plan to continue to make our platform available for media partners on all types of devices and platforms and evolve our business to apply our technology to the most popular methods of media consumption, which now include unique video, high-impact display, and other new media experiences, such as Moments, our vertical video offering launched in 2024, powered by Outbrain technology. Examples of environments in which content consumption is expected to grow include pre-installed applications on Smartphones, Smartphone content feeds, gaming applications, push notifications, and CTV. Through the Acquisition, we have created an omnichannel outcomes platform, enabling advertisers to not only reach their audiences across the entire Open Internet from web, to CTV, to app environments but to drive outcomes from those audiences at each step of the marketing funnel. The development and deployment of new ad formats allow us to better serve consumers, media partners and, ultimately, advertisers who seek to target and engage consumers at scale; we believe this continues to open and grow new types of advertiser demand, while ensuring relevance as the environments in which we operate diversify. As an example, we are rolling out our Connected Ads solutions, a new offering designed to provide a more immersive brand experience by delivering complementary ad placements on a single publisher page. We believe these initiatives are critical to our long-term growth and our ability to deliver differentiated value. 42 Investment in Our Technology and Infrastructure Innovation is a core tenet of our Company and our industry. We plan to continue our investments in our people and our technology in order to retain and enhance our competitive position. For example, improvements to our AI prediction engine or use of additional data signals, help us deliver more relevant ads, driving higher user engagement, thereby improving ROAS for advertisers and increasing monetization for our media partners. We believe in the transformative power of AI in shaping the future of sustainable media, and we are powered by our deep expertise in using AI technology for years to empower both media owners and advertisers in their businesses. We leverage AI in a manner designed to enable media owners to increase their revenues and connect with audiences on their own platforms within the Open Internet. We use machine learning to predict consumer interest and propensity to convert ads to sales. Our technology has developed into a robust AI machine learning system and is largely homegrown by our Research and Development team. One of the strongest long-term levers in our business is the continuous improvement of our algorithms and the data sets our algorithms learn from. Our direct integrations across our media partners properties provide us with a large volume of proprietary first-party data, including context, user interest and behavioral signals. The more data points we have, the better our advertisers ROAS, and yield potential can be. Our dynamic placement optimization and ad serving technology, powered by our Smartlogic product, dynamically adjusts both the arrangement and the formats of content delivered to a user, depending on the users preferences and a media partners key performance indicators, designed to provide a tailored and engaging feed experience. We continue to invest in media partner and advertiser focused tools, technology, and products as well as privacy-centric solutions. Industry Dynamics Our business depends on the overall demand for digital advertising, on the continuous success of our current and prospective media partners, and on general market conditions. Digital advertising is a rapidly growing industry, with growth that has outpaced the growth of the broader advertising industry. Content consumption continues to shift online, requiring media owners to adapt in order to successfully attract, engage and monetize their consumers. As audiences are increasingly engaged across digital media platforms, and as more purchase data is created, collected, integrated and analyzed digitally, advertisers are increasingly able to leverage sophisticated measurement and attribution solutions in order to optimize their advertising spend across the marketing funnel. As a result, advertisers are increasingly shifting spend away from legacy media offerings towards data-based solutions, driven by performance-centric metrics. We believe that our strength in delivering engagement and clear outcomes for advertisers, built on our proprietary AI prediction engine, aligns well with the ongoing market shift towards increased accountability and expectations of ROAS from digital advertising spend. AI is revolutionizing content creation, distribution, and personalization; automating tasks like video editing, image recognition, and language translation. AI-powered systems are also improving content delivery, helping media platforms suggest relevant movies, shows, articles, and advertisements to consumers. This is especially important at a time when advertisers increasingly anticipate measurable results from their digital advertising investments. Our experience in this space enables us to more nimbly capitalize on the opportunities for media owners and advertisers to leverage AI and automation to engage consumers and optimize their business goals. At the same time, the proliferation of generative AI tools, particularly their integration into major search engines and web browsers, is causing a shift in how users discover and consume content online. These tools can provide users with direct answers and AI-generated summaries, which has reduced their need to click through to original publisher websites. This trend of bypassing the traditional user journey to a publishers site could lead to a significant decline in direct user traffic across the Open Internet. A reduction in traffic to our media partners directly decreases the inventory of advertising impressions available for us to monetize, which has affected, and could in the future have a significant effect on, our revenue and results of operations. Regulators across most developed markets are increasingly focused on enacting and enforcing user privacy rules as well as exerting tighter oversight on the major walled garden platforms. Industry participants have recently been, and likely will continue to be, impacted by changes implemented by platform leaders, such as Apples change to its Identifier for Advertisers policy and Googles evolving roadmap pertaining to the use of third-party cookies within its Chrome web browser. See Item 1A, Risk Factors'' in our 2024 Form 10-K for additional information regarding changing industry dynamics with respect to industry participants and the regulatory environment. 43 Seasonality The global advertising industry experiences seasonal trends that affect most participants in the digital advertising ecosystem. Our revenue generally fluctuates from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonality, as many advertisers allocate the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with increased holiday purchasing, as well as the timing of advertising budget cycles. Historically, the fourth quarter of the year has reflected the highest levels of advertiser spending, and the first quarter generally has reflected the lowest level of advertiser spending. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and discretionary in nature, reflecting changes in brand advertising strategy, budgeting constraints, and buying patterns, and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. The quarterly rate of increase in our traffic acquisition costs is generally commensurate with the quarterly rate of increase in our revenue. However, traffic acquisition costs have, at times, grown at a faster or slower rate than revenue, primarily due to the mix of the revenue generated or contracted terms with media partners. We generally expect these seasonal trends to continue, though historical seasonality may not be predictive of future results given the potential for changes in advertising buying patterns and macroeconomic conditions. These trends will affect our operating results and we expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Revenue We generate revenue from advertisers through ads that we deliver across a variety of media partner properties. We charge advertisers based on certain actions, such as the number of clicks or impressions of their ads, or other actions, such as the number of completed video views. We recognize revenue when an ad is clicked on or displayed to the end user. The amount of revenue that we generate depends on the level of demand from advertisers on our media partners properties. We generate higher revenue at times of high demand, which is also impacted by seasonal factors. Due to the measurable performance that our advertisers achieve with us, a portion of our advertisers increase their level of spend with us over time as long as their ROAS objectives are met. We continue to expand and introduce new platform features that are adopted by our clients, expand our omnichannel capabilities, extend our reach to more CTV and other inventory and add additional clients whose businesses may have different underlying business models. Our agreements with advertisers provide them with considerable flexibility to modify their overall budget, price (cost-per-click or cost-per-impression), and the ads they wish to deliver on our platform. Traffic Acquisition Costs We define traffic acquisition costs (TAC) as amounts owed to media partners for the purchase of inventory. We incur costs with our media partners, which may be publishers or third-party intermediaries, in the period in which certain actions, such as click-throughs, impressions or views occur. Such costs due to media partners are based on the media partners contractual revenue share, a CPM model or guaranteed rates of payment based on certain media partner conditions. In some circumstances, we incur costs based on a guaranteed minimum payment, which may be based on either impressions, page views or a fixed amount if the partner reaches certain performance targets, in exchange for guaranteed placement on specified portions of the media owners online properties. As such, traffic acquisition costs may not correlate with fluctuations in revenue, as our costs may remain fixed even with a decrease in revenue. Traffic acquisition costs also include amounts payable to media partners whose supply is purchased programmatically. Other Cost of Revenue Other cost of revenue consists of costs related to the management of our data centers, hosting fees, data connectivity costs, research and insight costs, and depreciation and amortization. Other cost of revenue also includes the amortization of capitalized software that is developed or obtained for internal use associated with our revenue-generating technologies. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs. Personnel costs consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. 44 Research and Development. Research and development expenses are related to the development and enhancement of our platform and consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, amortization of capitalized software for non-revenue generating infrastructure and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs for personnel engaged in marketing, advertising, client services, and promotional activities. These expenses also include advertising and promotional spend on media, conferences, and other events to market our services, and facilities costs. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, professional fees, facilities costs, insurance, and certain taxes other than income taxes. General and administrative personnel costs include, among others, our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal functions. Our professional service fees consist primarily of accounting, audit, tax, legal, information technology and other consulting costs, including costs relating to the Acquisition, as well as our compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements. Impairment Charges. Impairment charges primarily consist of impairments of long-lived assets and capitalized software associated with the discontinuance of the video product offering associated with vi during the first quarter of 2025, as well as impairments of right-of-use assets for exited office locations, both in connection with the post-Acquisition integration of Teads. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist primarily of severance and other costs in connection with our announced Plan to streamline our operations and reduce duplicative workforce upon completion of the Acquisition. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net is comprised of gains on repurchases of our long-term debt, interest expense, and other (expense) income and interest income, net. Gain on Repurchase of Long-Term Debt. On June 17, 2025, we completed the repurchase of $9.3 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes for approximately $8.0 million in cash, including accrued interest, at a discount of approximately 17% to the principal amount and recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.2 million. In September 2024, we repurchased the remaining $118.0 million of our 2.95% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (Convertible Notes) at a discount of approximately 7.5% of the principal amount and recorded a pre-tax gain of $8.8 million. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest and fees on the Bridge Facility drawn and repaid during the first quarter of 2025, interest on our Notes, the Overdraft Facility (as defined below) assumed in the Acquisition, our revolving credit facilities, and our previously outstanding convertible notes. Interest expense may increase if we incur any borrowings under our 2025 Revolving Facility or if we enter into new debt facilities or finance lease arrangements. Other (Expense) Income and Interest Income, net. Other (expense) income and interest income, net primarily consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities, discount amortization on our investments in marketable securities, and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, both realized and unrealized, relate to transactions and monetary asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, including mark-to-market adjustments on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts. Foreign currency gains and losses may continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Benefit for Income Taxes Benefit for income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as deferred income taxes and changes in valuation allowance, reflecting the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Realization of our deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income. In considering the need for a valuation allowance, we consider our historical and future projected taxable income, as well as other objectively verifiable evidence, including our realization of tax attributes, assessment of tax credits and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. 45 Results of Operations We have one operating segment, which is also our reportable segment. The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented, which incorporates the results of Legacy Teads for the period from February 3, 2025 through September 30, 2025: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 (In thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue $ 318,772 $ 224,177 $ 948,225 $ 655,289 Cost of revenue: Traffic acquisition costs 188,230 164,483 570,392 487,484 Other cost of revenue 24,794 10,825 69,171 31,765 Total cost of revenue 213,024 175,308 639,563 519,249 Gross profit 105,748 48,869 308,662 136,040 Operating expenses: Research and development 10,743 9,053 38,007 27,576 Sales and marketing 68,658 23,201 202,071 71,195 General and administrative 31,970 19,564 96,335 51,700 Impairment charges 15,614 Restructuring charges 657 9,610 742 Total operating expenses 112,028 51,818 361,637 151,213 Loss from operations (6,280) (2,949) (52,975) (15,173) Other (expense) income: Gain on repurchase of long-term debt 8,782 1,225 8,782 Interest expense (17,084) (1,444) (57,732) (2,950) Other (expense) income and interest income, net (994) 3,536 (2,984) 7,687 Total other (expense) income, net (18,078) 10,874 (59,491) 13,519 (Loss) income before income taxes (24,358) 7,925 (112,466) (1,654) (Benefit) provision for income taxes (4,668) 1,229 (23,620) (1,110) Net (loss) income $ (19,690) $ 6,696 $ (88,846) $ (544) Other Financial Data: Ex-TAC Gross Profit (1) $ 130,542 $ 59,694 $ 377,833 $ 167,805 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 19,171 $ 11,531 $ 56,836 $ 20,337 __________________________ (1)Ex-TAC Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 Compared to Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 Revenue Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2025 increased $94.6 million, or 42.2%, to $318.8 million, from $224.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Revenue increased $292.9 million, or 44.7%, to $948.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 from $655.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 included net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $5.0 million and $7.8 million, respectively, and increased $89.6 million and $285.1 million, respectively, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. Our reported increases in revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 were primarily attributable to incremental revenues from the Acquisition of $126.8 million and $346.2 million, respectively, offset in part by lower revenues of $32.2 million and $53.3 million from the legacy Outbrain business, primarily driven by lower ad impressions from certain media partners. 46 See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for information regarding the constant currency measures provided in this discussion and below to supplement our reported results. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Traffic acquisition costs increased $23.7 million, or 14.4%, to $188.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $164.5 million in the prior year period. Traffic acquisition costs increased $82.9 million, or 17.0%, to $570.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $487.5 million in the prior year period. Traffic acquisition costs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $4.6 million and $7.2 million, respectively, and increased $19.1 million and $75.7 million, respectively on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. The increase in traffic acquisition costs in both periods was largely driven by incremental costs from the Acquisition, partially offset by lower traffic acquisition costs from the legacy Outbrain business, reflecting lower revenue and a net favorable change in our revenue mix. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs decreased to 59.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2025, from 73.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and decreased to 60.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from 74.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, reflecting the higher margin profile of the acquired business. Other cost of revenue increased $14.0 million, or 129.0%, to $24.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $10.8 million in the prior year period. Other cost of revenue increased $37.4 million, or 117.8%, to $69.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $31.8 million in the prior year period. These increases were primarily due to the impact of the Acquisition, and higher amortization expense related to technology intangible assets of approximately $3.9 million and $10.0 million, respectively. As a percentage of revenue, other cost of revenue increased to 7.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2025, from 4.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, and increased to 7.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from 4.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Gross profit increased $56.8 million, or 116.4%, to $105.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $48.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Gross profit increased $172.7 million, or 126.9%, to $308.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $136.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. These increases were largely due to the impact of the Acquisition. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit increased $70.8 million, or 118.7%, to $130.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, from $59.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit increased $210.0 million, or 125.2%, to $377.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from $167.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. These increases were largely due to the impact of the Acquisition. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and reconciliations to our gross profit. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased $60.2 million, or 116.2%, to $112.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, from $51.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $2.0 million. The reported increase wasprimarily attributable to the impact of the Acquisition, including acquisition and integration costs during the three months ended September 30, 2025. Operating expenses increased $210.4 million, or 139.2%, to $361.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from $151.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $3.1 million. This reported increase was primarily due to the impact of the Acquisition, including incremental acquisition and integration costs of $16.7 million, as well as impairment charges of $15.6 millionand higher restructuring charges of $8.9 million recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, as further described below. The following are the components of the operating expenses for the quarterly and the year-to-date periods presented: Research and development expenses increased $1.7 million and $10.4 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, primarily due to increased costs resulting from the Acquisition, largely offset by lower personnel related costs of $3.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively, resulting from our cost-saving initiatives. 47 Sales and marketing expenses increased $45.4 million and $130.9 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, primarily due to the impact of the Acquisition, and higher amortization expenses recorded on the associated intangible assets of approximately $8.6 million and $22.3 million, respectively. General and administrative expenses increased $12.4 million and $44.6 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025. These increases were primarily due to the impact of the Acquisition, including higher acquisition and integration related costs of $16.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the prior year period. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was also attributable to increased credit loss reserve of approximately $3.0 million. Impairment charges were $15.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, and were largely attributable to the full impairment of the carrying values of the definite-lived intangible assets of $15.1 million and capitalized software of $0.4 million associated with our previously acquired vi business, in connection with our decision to discontinue the related video product offering as part of our post-merger integration following the Acquisition (see Notes 5 and 6 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financials statements for additional information). Restructuring charges were $0.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, including severance costs of $0.6 million and $8.9 million, respectively, and legal costs of $0.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. These charges were incurred in connection with our previously announced Plan to streamline operations, including a reduction in workforce of approximately 15% to reduce duplicative roles after the Acquisition close. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, approximately $0.1 million related to research and development. $0.4 million related to sales and marketing and $0.1 million related to general and administrative expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, approximately $0.9 million related to research and development, $6.3 million related to sales and marketing and $2.4 million related to general and administrative departments. We estimate that total charges to be incurred under this Plan in 2025 will range from approximately $9 million to $11 million and we expect it to result in 2025 cost savings of approximately $40 million, with the higher run-rate impact in 2026 and beyond. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, restructuring charges were $0.7 million, comprised of severance and related costs. Total operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased to 35.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2025 from 23.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, and increased to 38.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 from 23.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. These increases were largely driven by the Acquisition and the associated Acquisition-related costs, as well as restructuring and impairment charges. Other (Expense) Income Gain on repurchase of long-term debt In June 2025, we completed the repurchase of $9.3 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes for approximately $8.0 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a discount of approximately 17% to the principal amount of the repurchased Notes. As a result, we realized a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.2 million within other income in our consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $8.8 million in connection with our repurchase of the remaining $118.0 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes in September 2024. Interest expense increased $15.7 million to $17.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, from $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, which was primarily due to interest expense of $16.8 million on the Notes, including interest and amortization of the related discount and deferred financing fees, during the three months ended September 30, 2025, partially offset by reduced interest expense of $0.8 million due to the absence of the previously outstanding Convertible Notes. Interest expense increased $54.7 million to $57.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from $3.0 millionfor the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This increase was primarily driven by $42.9 million of interest expense on the Notes, including interest and amortization of the related discount and deferred financing fees, as well as $13.3 million of fees and interest related to the Bridge Facility, which was drawn to finance the cash portion of the Acquisition consideration and subsequently repaid with the proceeds from the Notes in February 2025. These increases were partially offset by reduced interest expense of $2.5 million due to the absence of the previously outstanding Convertible Notes. 48 Other (expense) income and interest income, net decreased $4.5 million to net expense $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to income of $3.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. This decrease was primarily attributable to increased foreign currency losses of $2.5 million resulting from the remeasurement of transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies and less favorable mark-to-market adjustments of $1.0 million on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts used to manage our foreign currency exchange risk on net cash flows from our non-U.S. dollar denominated operations. The decline was also attributable lower investment income of $1.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2025. Other (expense) income and interest income, net, decreased $10.7 million to net expense of $3.0 millionfor the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to income of $7.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This decrease was primarily attributable to increased foreign currency losses of $9.4 million resulting from the remeasurement of transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies and lower investment income of $4.2 million. These decreases were partially offset by more favorable mark-to-market adjustments of $1.6 million on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts used to manage our foreign currency exchange risk on net cash flows from our non-U.S. dollar denominated operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. (Benefit) Provision for Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes was $4.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to provision for income taxes of $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Benefit from income taxes was $23.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to benefit of $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024.These increases in benefits from income taxes were primarily due to higher pre-tax losses during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the respective prior year periods. Our effective tax rate increased to 19.2% in the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to 15.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2024. This increase was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the absence of the foreign-derived intangible income deduction in the current period, increase in uncertain tax positions and impact of state taxes, partially offset by increased concentration of profitability in lower-tax jurisdictions and lower non-deductible stock-based compensation in the current period. Our effective tax rate decreased to 21.0% in the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to 67.1% in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This decrease was primarily due to increases in valuation allowance and uncertain tax positions combined with a pre-tax loss in the period, as well as increased concentration of profitability in lower-tax jurisdictions, partially offset by the absence of the foreign-derived intangible income deduction in the current year, and changes in the non-deductible transaction costs and non-deductible stock-based compensation. On July 4, 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (the OBBBA) was enacted into law in the U.S., with certain provisions of the OBBBA effective in 2025 and others becoming effective in 2026 and beyond. The OBBBA amends U.S. tax law including provisions related to bonus depreciation, interest deduction limitations, research and development, and foreign derived intangible income. The OBBBA provisions did not have a material impact on our total tax benefits for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2025. For the full 2025 year, we expect that the OBBBA provisions will result in lower cash taxes due to a favorable change to the US interest expense limitation regime, which allowed for more interest to be deducted in 2025 rather than carried forward into future years. We will continue to evaluate discretionary elections available and other provisions which become effective in 2026. Our future effective tax rate may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by our ongoing assessment of the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, tax planning initiatives, as well as certain discrete items. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the foregoing, we recorded a net loss of $19.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, as compared to net income of $6.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 was $88.8 million, as compared to net loss of $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. 49 Adjusted EBITDA Our Adjusted EBITDA increased $7.7 million to $19.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 from $11.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.6 million. Adjusted EBITDA increased $36.5 million to $56.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 from $20.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $2.5 million. The increases in both periods were largely driven by the Acquisition. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to our net loss. Non-GAAP Reconciliations Because we are a global company, the comparability of our operating results is affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. We calculate certain constant currency measures and foreign currency impacts by translating the current years reported amounts, excluding new acquisitions, into comparable amounts using the prior years exchange rates. All constant currency financial information being presented is non-GAAP and should be used as a supplement to our reported operating results. We believe that this information is helpful to our management and investors to assess our operating performance on a comparable basis. However, these measures are not intended to replace amounts presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from similar measures calculated by other companies. We present Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Free Cash Flow, and Adjusted Free Cash Flow because they are key profitability measures used by our management and our Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, develop short-term and long-term operational plans, and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. Accordingly, we believe that these measures provide information to investors and the market in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. These non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled to the corresponding U.S. GAAP measures below. These non-GAAP financial measures are subject to significant limitations, including those identified below. In addition, other companies in our industry may define these measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. As a result, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue, gross profit, net loss or net cash provided by (used in) operating activities presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Ex-TAC Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross profit is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure. In calculating Ex-TAC Gross Profit, we add back other cost of revenue to gross profit. Ex-TAC Gross Profit may fluctuate in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to, seasonality and changes in the number of media partners and advertisers, advertiser demand or user engagements. There are limitations on the use of Ex-TAC Gross Profit in that traffic acquisition cost is a significant component of our total cost of revenue but not the only component and, by definition, Ex-TAC Gross Profit presented for any period will be higher than gross profit for that period. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry which have a similar business, may define Ex-TAC Gross Profit differently, which may make comparisons difficult. As a result, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue or gross profit presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 50 The following table presents the reconciliation of Ex-TAC Gross Profit to gross profit, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 (In thousands) Revenue $ 318,772 $ 224,177 $ 948,225 $ 655,289 Traffic acquisition costs (188,230) (164,483) (570,392) (487,484) Other cost of revenue (24,794) (10,825) (69,171) (31,765) Gross profit 105,748 48,869 308,662 136,040 Other cost of revenue 24,794 10,825 69,171 31,765 Ex-TAC Gross Profit $ 130,542 $ 59,694 $ 377,833 $ 167,805 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) before gain on repurchase of long-term debt; interest expense; other expense (income) and interest income, net; provision (benefit) for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation, and other income or expenses that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance, including, but not limited to acquisition and integration costs, restructuring, and impairment charges. We present Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure because we believe it facilitates operating performance comparisons from period to period. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. However, our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA is not necessarily comparable to non-GAAP information of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 (In thousands) Net (loss) income $ (19,690) $ 6,696 $ (88,846) $ (544) Gain on repurchase of long-term debt (8,782) (1,225) (8,782) Interest expense 17,084 1,444 57,732 2,950 Other expense (income) and interest income, net 994 (3,536) 2,984 (7,687) (Benefit) provision for income taxes (4,668) 1,229 (23,620) (1,110) Depreciation and amortization 17,497 4,843 48,707 14,494 Stock-based compensation 3,641 4,052 10,372 11,487 Acquisition and integration costs 3,656 5,585 25,508 8,787 Restructuring charges 657 9,610 742 Impairment charges 15,614 Adjusted EBITDA $ 19,171 $ 11,531 $ 56,836 $ 20,337 Net (loss) income as % of gross profit (18.6)% 13.7% (28.8)% (0.4)% Adjusted EBITDA as % of Ex-TAC Gross Profit 14.7% 19.3% 15.0% 12.1% 51 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is defined as cash flow provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Adjusted free cash flow is defined as free cash flow plus direct acquisition costs. Free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow are supplementary measures used by our management and the Board to evaluate our ability to generate cash and we believe it allows for a more complete analysis of our available cash flows. Free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow should be considered as supplemental measures and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 344 $ 25,898 Purchases of property and equipment (4,853) (4,668) Capitalized software development costs (12,020) (7,592) Free cash flow $ (16,529) $ 13,638 Direct acquisition costs 19,918 Adjusted free cash flow 3,389 13,638 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We regularly evaluate the cash requirements for our operations, commitments, acquisitions, development activities and capital expenditures and manage our liquidity risk in a manner consistent with our corporate priorities. Our current investment program is focused on achieving maximum returns within our investment policy parameters, while preserving capital and maintaining sufficient liquidity. We believe that our operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents and investments, and available borrowing capacity, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. However, there are multiple factors that could impact our future liquidity, including our business performance, ability to collect payments from advertisers, having to pay media partners even if advertisers default on their payments, or other factors described under Item 1A Risk Factors included in our 2024 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are cash receipts from our advertisers, cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities, and the available capacity under our 2025 Revolving Facility discussed below. We have historically experienced higher cash collections during our first quarter due to seasonally strong fourth quarter sales, and, as a result, our working capital needs typically decrease during the first quarter. We generally expect these trends to continue in future periods. As of September 30, 2025, our available liquidity was follows: September 30, 2025 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 130,751 Short-term investments 7,501 2025 Revolving Facility (2) 100,000 Total $ 238,252 _____________________________________________ (1) As ofSeptember 30, 2025, approximately $77.2 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the United States by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2025, we plan to either reinvest indefinitely our earnings from our foreign subsidiaries or repatriate them tax-neutrally. We are in the process of evaluating our cash requirements post-Acquisition. If future earnings are repatriated and we are unable to do so in a tax-neutral manner, we may be required to accrue and pay additional taxes, including any applicable foreign withholding tax and income taxes. 52 (2) On February 3, 2025, we entered into the Credit Agreement, which established the Credit Facilities, including the 2025 Revolving Facility and the Bridge Facility, and our subsidiary, Midco, borrowed $625 million in aggregate principal amount of Bridge Loans under the Bridge Facility to finance the cash portion of the Acquisition consideration and the related transaction fees, costs and expenses. On February 11, 2025, the Bridge Facility, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon, was fully repaid and cancelled using proceeds from the Offering and cash on hand. Loans under the 2025 Revolving Facility (the Revolving Loans) bear interest, at the Companys option, at (x) secured overnight financing rate, subject to a zero floor, plus an interest rate margin of 4.25% per annum or (y) an alternate base rate plus an interest rate margin of 3.25% per annum. In addition, the 2025 Revolving Facility accrues an unused commitment fee at a rate ranging from 0.375% to 0.50%, depending on the Companys senior secured net leverage ratio, as set forth in the Credit Agreement. The 2025 Revolving Facility may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and our subsidiaries. Up to $10.0 million of the 2025 Revolving Facility is available in the form of letters of credit and up to $20.0 million of the 2025 Revolving Facility is available in the form of swingline loans. The Company may seek incremental commitments under the 2025 Revolving Facility from lenders or other financial institutions up to an aggregate principal amount equal to the greater of $62.5 million and 25% of the Companys EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The 2025 Revolving Facility lenders will not be under any obligation to provide any such incremental commitments, and any such increase in commitments will be subject to certain customary conditions precedent. Additional wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company organized in certain jurisdictions may become borrowers under the 2025 Revolving Facility from time to time. The Credit Facilities are senior secured obligations of the Company, Midco and the Credit Facilities Guarantors (as defined in Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements), provided, that, with respect to the application of proceeds from enforcement or distressed disposals of collateral, the 2025 Revolving Facility will rank super senior to other senior secured indebtedness of the Company, Midco and the Credit Facilities Guarantors, including the Bridge Facility. The Credit Agreement includes a customary springing financial covenant with respect to the 2025 Revolving Facility that will require the Company and our restricted subsidiaries to comply with a maximum senior secured net leverage ratio from and after the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2025, in the event that utilization under the 2025 Revolving Facility exceeds 40%. In connection with the entry into the Credit Agreement described above, we terminated the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2021, by and among the Company, Silicon Valley Bank, a division of First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Zemanta Holding USA Inc. and Zemanta Inc. and replaced it with the new 2025 Revolving Credit Facility. As of September 30, 2025, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. See Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information related to terms and conditions, covenants, guarantees, and events of default. Material Cash Requirements We plan to meet our liquidity needs through available cash, cash generated from our operations and our borrowing capacity. Our primary uses of liquidity are payments to our media partners, our operating expenses, capital expenditures, our long-term debt and the related interest payments. We primarily use our operating cash for payments due to media partners and vendors, as well as for personnel costs, and other employee-related expenditures. Our contracts with media partners are generally variable based bids on impressions or guaranteed minimum payments if the media partner reaches certain performance targets, and for legacy Outbrain may also include revenue share arrangements with media partners. See Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Traffic Acquisition Costs. We may also acquire or make investments in complementary companies or technologies, such as the Acquisition. 53 Debt Obligations The following table presents our debt obligations as of September 30, 2025. We had no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2024. September 30, 2025 (In thousands) 10% Senior Secured Notes (1) $ 628,226 Debt discount (10,853) Unamortized debt issuance costs (13,350) Total long-term debt 604,023 Short-term debt (15 million) (2) 17,606 Total debt $ 621,629 _______________________________________ (1) On February 11, 2025, Midco completed the Offering of the Notes at an issue price of 98.087% of the principal amount thereof in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act. The Notes bear interest from February 11, 2025 at an annual rate of 10.000%, payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on August 15, 2025. The Notes will mature on February 15, 2030. On June 17, 2025, we completed the repurchase of $9.3 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes for $8.0 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a discount of approximately 17% to the principal amount of the repurchased Notes. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $1.2 million within other income in our consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025. The Notes are guaranteed, jointly and severally on a secured, unsubordinated basis by the Company and each existing and future wholly-owned subsidiary of Outbrain that becomes a borrower, issuer or guarantor under the 2025 Revolving Facility. The Notes are also secured by first-priority lien over (i) all or substantially all assets of OT Midco, Outbrain and Teads Australia PTY Ltd, a subsidiary of Outbrain in Australia, and (ii) certain assets of some of the other direct and indirect subsidiaries of Outbrain in England and Wales, Canada, Germany, Mexico, Singapore, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Japan, Italy, France and Israel. The terms of the Indenture, among other things, limit the ability of the Company and our restricted subsidiaries to (i) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, (ii) pay dividends or make other restricted payments; (iii) make certain investments, (iv) transfer and sell assets, (v) create or incur certain liens, (vi) engage in certain transactions with affiliates and (vii) consolidate or merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications. The Indenture provides for customary events of default which include, among other things (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), defaults based on (i) the failure to make payments under the Indenture when due, (ii) breach of covenants, (iii) acceleration of other material indebtedness, (iv) bankruptcy events and (v) material judgments. Generally, if an event of default occurs, the trustee or the holders of at least 30% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all of the Notes to be due and payable. (2) Upon the close of the Acquisition, the Companys new French subsidiary has an overdraft short-term credit facility with HSBC (the Overdraft Facility), which provides Teads France with a revolving line of credit of up to 15 million at a 3-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), plus a margin of 1.8%, payable quarterly in arrears. This facility may be used to fund general working capital needs of Teads France. Borrowings under this facility are subject to a commission fee of 0.035% per annum, and a facility fee of 1.25% per annum. There are no financial covenants relating to the Overdraft Facility. See Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our debt obligations. 54 Other Contractual Cash Obligations See Contractual Cash Obligations disclosure within Liquidity and Capital Resources section of our 2024 Form 10-K for detailed disclosures of our other material cash obligations as of December 31, 2024. The increase in the Companys future contractual obligation and commitments resulting from our Acquisition primarily relates to the following: $628.2 million of the Notes issued on February 11, 2025 to finance the Acquisition; future interest payments of approximately $62.8 million in each of 2026 through 2029, and $31.4 million in 2030; and future operating lease obligations, which are included in the maturities of the Companys lease liabilities under operating leases in Note 8 to our accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The acquired business also has media partner agreements entered into in the normal course of business, the payments under which are contingent on publishers fulfilling their obligations to provide to the Company the related inventory. Share Repurchases On December 14, 2022, our Board approved a new stock repurchase program, authorizing us to repurchase up to $30 million of our Common Stock, with no requirement to purchase any minimum number of shares. The manner, timing, and actual number of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. Shares may be repurchased through privately negotiated transactions or open market purchases, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). The repurchase program may be commenced, suspended, or terminated at any time at our discretion without prior notice. There were no shares repurchased under the stock repurchase program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we repurchased 1,410,001 shares with a fair value of $5.8 million under the repurchase program. As of September 30, 2025, the remaining availability under our $30 million share repurchase program was $6.6 million. In addition, we periodically withhold shares to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units and exercise of options and warrants in accordance with the terms of our equity incentive plans and the underlying award agreements. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, we withheld 52,063shares and 195,171 shares, respectively, with a fair value of $0.1 million and $0.6 million, respectively, to satisfy the minimum employee tax withholding obligations. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, the Company withheld 39,323 shares and 123,903shares, respectively, with a fair value of $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Capital Expenditures Our cash flow from investing activities primarily consists of capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. We spent $4.9 million in capital expenditures during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. We currently anticipate that our capital expenditures will be between $6 million and $8 million in 2025, primarily relating to expenditures for servers and related equipment and other equipment. However, actual amounts may vary from these estimates. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the major components of our net cash flows for the periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 344 $ 25,898 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (545,380) 75,569 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 585,358 (116,894) Effect of exchange rate changes 1,834 2,034 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 42,156 $ (13,393) 55 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $25.6 million, to $0.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, as compared to $25.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This decrease was primarily attributable to due to an unfavorable change of $39.6 million in net income (loss) after non-cash adjustments during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the prior year period. The decrease in cash from operating activities was partially offset by higher working capital of $13.2 million, which was primarily attributable to cash flow generated by the acquired business, and the timing of cash collections and payments, which included cash outflows for interest on our debt obligations, acquisition-related costs and severance costs. Our adjusted free cash flow decreased to $3.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, as compared to adjusted free cash flow of $13.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by lower operating cash flow, adjusted for payments of direct acquisition costs, offset in part by increased capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow are supplemental non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and a reconciliation to net cash provided by operating activities. Investing Activities Cash related to investing activities decreased $621.0 million to cash used in investing activities of $545.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from cash provided by investing activities of $75.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This decrease in cash was primarily related to $598.3 million of cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired, in connection with the Acquisition, an $18.2 million decrease in net proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities under our investment program (net of purchases), and increased capitalized software development costs of $4.4 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased $702.3 million to net cash provided by financing activities of $585.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2025, from net cash used in financing activities of $116.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This increase was primarily attributable to debt issuances related to the Acquisition of $625.3 million (net of Bridge Loan repayment), lower repayments of long-term debt obligations of $102.1 million, and lower treasury share repurchases of $5.8 million. This increase was partially offset by debt financing related costs payments of $31.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. Other than described below, there have been no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our 2024 Form 10-K. Business Combinations Accounting for business combinations under ASC 805, Business Combinations, requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, including the valuation of intangible assets acquired and the determination of fair values of liabilities assumed. Although we believe that the assumptions and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for recently issued accounting standards, which may have an impact on our financial statements upon adoption. 56 JOBS Act Transition Period We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, delaying the adoption of some accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that have adopted new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Based on the anticipated total gross revenue of the Company, we expect that we will cease to be an emerging growth company as of December 31, 2025. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not have any interest in entities referred to as variable interest entities, which includes special purpose entities and other structured finance entities. 57