Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 18, 2022 ("2021 Form 10-K"). In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, beliefs and expectations, and involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Report as such factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent filings with the SEC, as well as those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, including under the caption Note About Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Outbrain Inc., together with our subsidiaries, (Outbrain, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated in August 2006 in Delaware. The Company is headquartered in New York, New York and has wholly owned subsidiaries in Israel, Europe, Asia, Brazil and Australia. Outbrain is a leading recommendation platform powering the open web. Our technology provides personalization, engagement and monetization solutions to thousands of digital media properties, including many of the worlds most prestigious publishers. Through powering discovery feeds on the open web, Outbrain helps over a billion unique users on a monthly basis discover content, offers, services and products they might be interested in. For tens of thousands of advertisers around the world, Outbrain helps attract new customers and grow their businesses, driving measurable results and return on investment. Over the past decade, consumers have become increasingly accustomed to seeing highly curated digital content and ads that align with their unique interests. Similar to the way in which social media and search have simplified discovery by synthesizing billions of consumer data points to offer personalized feeds, we provide media partners with a platform that encompasses data at scale as well as prediction and recommendation capabilities, helping them deliver a discovery feed personalized to their users, based on context and each users unique interests and preferences. Our platform is built for user engagement and, as a mobile-first company, is designed to be highly effective on mobile devices. Our technology is deployed on the mobile apps and websites of most of our media partners, generating 68% of our revenue in 2021. Since inception, we have been guided by the same core principles pertaining to our three constituents: media partners, users, and advertisers. Media Partners. We are committed to the long-term success of our media partners. Consistent with this philosophy, we focus on establishing a true win-win partnership. We strive to develop trusted, transparent, multi-year contracts with media partners, which are typically exclusive with us. Our media partners include both traditional publishers and companies in new and rapidly evolving categories such as mobile device manufacturers and web browsers. Users. We believe that by focusing on improving the user experience we are able to cultivate user behavior patterns that compound engagement over time, delivering superior long-term monetization for ourselves and for our media partners. Advertisers. We strive to grow our advertising business by increasing overall user engagement, rather than price per engagement. Our emphasis on user engagement helps us improve advertisers return on ad spend (ROAS) thus unlocking more advertising spend and attracting more advertisers. In turn this enables us to better match ads to users and further grow user engagement and overall monetization. Through our direct, usually exclusive, integrations with media partners, we have become one of the largest online advertising platforms on the open web. In 2021, we provided personalized feeds and ads to over 1 billion monthly unique users, delivering on average over 10 billion recommendations to content, services and products per day, with over 24,000 advertisers directly using our platform. The following is a summary of our performance for the periods presented: Our revenue increased 11.5%, totaling $254.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $228.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our gross profit was $53.9 million and our gross margin was 21.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to gross profit of $53.5 million and gross margin of 23.4% for the comparable prior year period. 25 Table of Contents Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit (1) increased 5.1% to $63.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $60.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our net (loss) income decreased to a net loss of $1.9 million, or 3.5% of gross profit, compared to a net income of $10.7 million, or 20.1% of gross profit, for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our Adjusted EBITDA (1) decreased to $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $20.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Adjusted EBITDA (1) was 18.3% and 34.1% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit (1) for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. ______________________ (1) Ex-TAC Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Recent Developments On February 28, 2022, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which the Company is authorized to purchase up to $30 million of the Company's common stock, par value $0.001 per share, with no requirement to purchase any minimum number of shares. The manner, timing, and actual number of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. Shares may be repurchased through privately negotiated transactions, or open market purchases, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or terminated at any time by the Company at its discretion without prior notice. On November 19, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement, by and among our Company and the shareholders of video intelligence AG (vi), a Swiss-based contextual video technology company for digital media owners, for the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of vi for a purchase price of approximately $55 million. The acquisition was completed on January 5, 2022. The purchase price was paid in the form of cash and Outbrain common stock, with the first installment of $37.3 million in cash and the equity portion paid at closing, and the substantial majority of the remaining cash balance payable in the third quarter of 2022. The equity portion of the purchase price was comprised of 355,786 shares of our common stock with a fair value of $4.2 million, and is subject to a post-closing adjustment based on market price of our stock to be determined one year from closing, at which time any required adjustment is to be paid in cash. Aggregate consideration for the acquisition of vi will not exceed approximately $55 million in total. This acquisition expands our video product offerings to include in-stream high-quality video content, delivering a better user experience and more value to our advertisers. This acquisition was accounted for as a b usiness combination and the results of the acquired entity will be included in our results of operations beginning as of the acquisition date. Macroeconomic Environment General worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced significant instability including the recent global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions caused by factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the hostilities between Russia and Ukraine. Since March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity causing a decrease in demand for a broad variety of goods and services, including those provided by certain advertisers using our platform. Many of our advertisers reduced their advertising spending, which had a negative impact on our revenue during the first half of 2020. As the world quickly shifted to online activities and advertisers gradually shifted their spending toward digital advertising, our revenue trends improved meaningfully and returned to growth beginning in the second half of 2020. Although the advertising market and our business had generally recovered from the economic effects of the pandemic, the current volatile macro environment, with variables such a s global supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and stoppages, and inflation resulting from the pandemic and now events such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, has impacted certain categories of our advertisers. These conditions have adversely impacted us and could, if they continue or worsen, adversely impact us in the future, including if our advertisers were to reduce or further reduce their advertising spending as a result of any of these factors. We continue to monitor our operations, and the operations of those in our ecosystem (including media partners, advertisers and agencies). However, these conditions make it difficult for us, our media partners, advertisers and agencies to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause a reduction or delay in overall advertising demand and spending, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Business Retention and Growth of Relationships with Media Partners We rely on relationships with our media partners for a significant portion of our advertising inventory and for our ability to increase revenue through expanding their use of our platform. To further strengthen these relationships, we continuously invest in our technology and product functionality to drive user engagement and monetization by (i) improving our algorithms; (ii) effectively managing our supply and demand; and (iii) expanding the adoption of our enhanced products by media partners. Our relationships with media partners are typically long-term, exclusive and strategic in nature. Our top 20 media partners, based on our 2021 revenue, have been using our platform for an average of over seven years, despite their typical contract length being two to three years. Net revenue retention is an important indicator of media partner satisfaction, the value of our platform, as well as our ability to grow revenue from existing relationships. We calculate media partner net revenue retention at the end of each quarter by starting with revenue generated on media partners properties during the same period in the prior year, Prior Period Retention Revenue. We then calculate the revenue generated on these same media partners properties in the current period, Current Period Retention Revenue. Current Period Retention Revenue reflects any expansions within the media partner relationships, such as any additional placements or properties on which we extend our recommendations, as well as contraction or attrition. Our media partner net revenue retention in a quarter equals the Current Period Retention Revenue divided by the Prior Period Retention Revenue. To calculate media partner net revenue retention for year-to-date and annual periods, we sum the quarterly Current Period Retention Revenue and divide it by the sum of the quarterly Prior Period Retention Revenue. These amounts exclude certain revenue adjustments and revenue recognized on a net basis. Our media partner net revenue retention was 99% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our growth also depends on our ability to secure partnerships with new media partners. New media partners are defined as those relationships in which revenue was not generated in the prior period, except for limited instances where residual revenue was generated on a media partners properties. In such instances, the residual revenue would be excluded from net revenue retention above. Revenue generated on new media partners properties contributed approximately 11% to rev enue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2022. User Engagement with Relevant Media and Advertising Content We believe that engagement is a key pillar of the overall value that our platform provides to users, media partners and advertisers. Our algorithms enable effective engagement of users by facilitating the discovery of content, products and services that they find most interesting, as well as connecting them to personalized ads that are relevant to them. We believe that the user experience has a profound impact on long-term user behavior patterns and thus compounds over time improving our long-term monetization prospects. This principle guides our behavior, and, as a result, we do not focus on the price of ads, nor on maximizing such prices, as may be the case with some of our competitors. Given this view, we do not focus on cost-per-click or cost-per-impression as key performance indicators for the business. Consequently, we have a differentiated approach to monetization as we optimize our algorithms for the overall user experience rather than just for the price of each individual user engagement. Growth in user engagement is driven by several factors, including enhancements to our recommendation engine, growth in the breadth and depth of our data assets, the increase in size and quality of our content and advertising index, user engagement, expansion on existing media partner properties where our recommendations can be served and the adoption of our platform by new media partners. As we grow user engagement, we are able to collect more data, enabling us to further enhance our algorithms, which in turn helps us make smarter recommendations and further grow user engagement, providing our platform and our business with a powerful growth flywheel. We measure the impact of this growth flywheel on our business by reviewing the growth of Click Through Rate (CTR) for ads on our platform. CTR improvements increase the number of clicks on our platform. We believe that we have a significant opportunity to further grow user engagement, and thus our business, as today CTR on our platform is less than 1% of recommendations served. 27 Table of Contents Advertiser Retention and Growth We focus on serving ads that are more engaging rather than on the price of the ads. Our growth is partially driven by retaining and expanding the amount of spend by advertisers on our platform, as well as acquiring new advertisers. Improving our platforms functionality and features increases the attractiveness of our platform to existing and new advertisers while also growing our share of their advertising budgets. We continuously invest in enhancing our technological capabilities to deliver better ROAS and transparency on ad spend, and market these attributes to grow our advertiser base and share of wallet. Prices paid by advertisers on our platform fluctuate period to period for a variety of reasons, including supply and demand, competition and seasonality. Movements in average prices do not necessarily correlate to our revenue or Ex-TAC Gross Profit trends. In order to grow our revenue and Ex-TAC Gross Profit and maximize value for our advertisers and media partners, our focus as a business is on driving user engagement and ROAS for advertisers, not on optimizing for price. For the year ended December 31, 2021, over 24,000 unique advertisers were active on our platform. In addition, we continue to grow our programmatic partnerships, enabling us to grow our advertiser base efficiently. Expansion Into New Environments, New Content Experiences and New Ad Formats The accelerating pace of technological innovation and adoption, combined with continuously evolving user behavior and content consumption habits, presents multiple opportunities for growth. The emergence of new devices, platforms and environments in which users spend time consuming content is one area of expansion for us. Similarly, the formats in which content can or will be consumed continue to evolve, as well as user-friendly and impactful ad formats that can be delivered in or alongside that content. Fundamentally, we plan to continue making our platform available for media partners on all types of devices and platforms, and all formats of media, that carry their content. Examples of new environments in which content consumption is expected to grow include connected TVs (CTV), screens for autonomous vehicles and public transport, pre-installed applications on new smartphones, smartphone native content feeds, push notifications and email newsletters. We are developing solutions that allow media partners, service providers and manufacturers to provide better curated, personalized and more engaging content feeds and recommendations in these environments. Through our acquisition of video intelligence AG (vi) in the first quarter of 2022, we expanded our video product offerings to new formats and environments, including In-Stream video ads and CTV environments. The development and deployment of new ad formats allow us to better serve users, media partners and, ultimately, advertisers who seek to target and engage users at scale; this continues to open and grow new types of advertiser demand, while ensuring relevance as the environments in which we operate diversify. Investment in Our Technology and Infrastructure Innovation is a core tenet of our Company and our industry. We plan to continue our investments in our people and our technology in order to retain and enhance our competitive position. For example, improvements to our algorithms help us deliver more relevant ads, driving higher user engagement, thereby improving ROAS for advertisers and increasing monetization for o ur media partners. In addition, we continue to invest in media partner and advertiser focused tools, technology and products as well as privacy-centric solutions, most recently announcing the launch of Keystone TM , designed as a total business optimization platform for media owners. We believe that our proprietary micro-services, API-based cloud infrastructure provides us with a strategic competitive advantage as we are able to deploy code an average of 300 times per day and grow in a scalable and highly cost-effective manner. As we develop and deploy solutions for enhanced integration of our technologies in new environments, with new content and ad formats, we anticipate activity through our platform to grow. We anticipate that the investment in our technology, infrastructure and solutions will contribute to our long-term growth. Industry Dynamics Our business depends on the overall demand for digital advertising and on the continuous success of our current and prospective media partners. Digital advertising is a rapidly evolving and growing industry, with growth that has outpaced the growth of the broader advertising ind ustry, and it has historically been more resilient to economic downturns compared to the advertising industry in general. Content consumption is increasingly shifting online, requiring media owners to adapt in order to successfully attract, engage and monetize their users. Given the large and growing volume of content being generated online, content curation tools are increasingly becoming a necessity for users and media owners alike. Advertisers increasingly rely on 28 Table of Contents digital advertising platforms that deliver highly targeted ads and measurable performance. Regulators across most developed markets are increasingly focused on enacting and enforcing user privacy rules as well as tighter oversight of the major walled garden platforms. Industry participants have recently been, and likely will continue to be, impacted by changes implemented by platform leaders such as Apples change to its Identifier for Advertisers policy and Googles evolving roadmap pertaining to the use of cookies within its Chrome web browser. See Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2021 Form 10-K for additional information regarding changing industry dynamics with respect to industry participants and the regulatory environment. Given our focus on innovation, the depth and length of our media partner relationships and our scale, we believe that we are well positioned in the long-term to address and potentially benefit from many of these industry dynamics. Seasonality The global advertising industry experiences seasonal trends that affect most participants in the digital advertising ecosystem. Our revenue generally fluctuates from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonality, as many advertisers allocate the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with increased holiday purchasing, as well as the timing of advertising budget cycles. Historically, the fourth quarter of the year has reflected the highest levels of advertiser spending, and the first quarter generally has reflected the lowest level of advertiser spending. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and discretionary in nature, reflecting changes in brand advertising strategy, budgeting constraints and buying patterns and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. The quarterly rate of increase in our traffic acquisition costs is generally commensurate with the quarterly rate of increase in our revenue. However, traffic acquisition costs have, at times, grown at a faster or slower rate than revenue, primarily due to the mix of the revenue generated or contracted terms with media partners. We generally expect these seasonal trends to continue, though historical seasonality may not be predictive of future results given the potential for changes in advertising buying patterns. These trends will affect our operating results and we expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Revenue We generate revenue from advertisers through ads that we deliver across a variety of media partner properties. We charge advertisers for clicks on and, to a lesser extent, impressions of their ads, depending on how they choose to contract with us. We recognize revenue in the period in which the click or impression occurs. The amount of revenue that we generate depends on the level of demand from advertisers to promote their content to users across our media partners properties. We generate higher revenue at times of high demand, which is also impacted by seasonal factors. For any given marketing campaign, the advertiser has the ability to adjust its price in real time and set a maximum daily spend. This allows advertisers to adjust the estimated ad spend attributable to the particular campaign. Due to the measurable performance that our advertisers achieve with us, a significant portion of our advertisers spend with us on an unlimited basis, as long as their ROAS objectives are met. Our agreements with advertisers provide them with considerable flexibility to modify their overall budget, price (cost-per-click or cost-per-impression), and the ads they wish to deliver on our platform. Traffic Acquisition Costs We define traffic acquisition costs (TAC) as amounts owed to media partners for their share of the revenue we generated on their properties. We incur traffic acquisition costs in the period in which the revenue is recognized. Traffic acquisition costs are based on the media partners revenue share or, in some circumstances, based on a guaranteed minimum rate of payment from us in exchange for guaranteed placement of our ads on specified portions of the media partners digital properties. These guaranteed rates are typically provided per thousand qualified page views, whereas our minimum monthly payment to the media partner may fluctuate based on how many qualified page views the media partner generates, subject to a maximum guarantee. Traffic acquisition costs also include amounts payable to programmatic supply partners. Other Cost of Revenue Other cost of revenue consists of costs related to the management of our data centers, hosting fees, data connectivity costs and depreciation and amortization. Other cost of revenue also includes the amortization of capitalized software that is developed or obtained for internal use associated with our revenue-generating technologies. 29 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs. Personnel costs consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Research and Development. Research and development expenses are related to the development and enhancement of our platform and consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, amortization of capitalized software for non-revenue generating infrastructure and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs for personnel engaged in marketing, advertising, client services, and promotional activities. These expenses also include advertising and promotional spend on media, conferences and other events to market our services, and facilities costs. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, professional fees, facilities costs, insurance, and certain taxes other than income taxes. General and administrative personnel costs include, among others, our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal functions. Our professional service fees consist primarily of accounting, audit, tax, legal, information technology and other consulting costs, including our implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net is comprised of interest expense and interest income and other income (expense), net. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest expense on our 2.95% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the Convertible Notes), our revolving credit facility and capital leases. Interest expense may increase if we incur borrowings periodically under our revolving credit facility or if we enter into new debt facilities or capital leasing arrangements. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net primarily consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and money market funds, as well as foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, both realized and unrealized, relate to transactions and monetary asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies. Foreign currency gains and losses may continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (Benefit) provision for Income Taxes (Benefit) provision for income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States (U.S.) and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as deferred income taxes and changes in valuation allowance, reflecting the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Realization of our deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income. In considering the need for a valuation allowance, we consider our historical and future projected taxable income, as well as other objectively verifiable evidence, including our realization of tax attributes, assessment of tax credits and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have one operating segment, which is also our reportable segment. The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue $ 254,216 $ 228,024 Cost of revenue: Traffic acquisition costs 190,696 167,613 Other cost of revenue 9,589 6,942 Total cost of revenue 200,285 174,555 Gross profit 53,931 53,469 Operating expenses: Research and development 10,428 8,428 Sales and marketing 27,395 19,868 General and administrative 16,034 10,393 Total operating expenses 53,857 38,689 Income from operations 74 14,780 Other expense, net: Interest expense (1,871) (170) Interest income and other income (expense), net (1,081) (2,253) Total other expense, net (2,952) (2,423) (Loss) income before provision for income taxes (2,878) 12,357 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (988) 1,611 Net (loss) income $ (1,890) $ 10,746 Other Financial Data: Research and development as % of revenue 4.1 % 3.7 % Sales and marketing as % of revenue 10.8 % 8.7 % General and administrative as % of revenue 6.3 % 4.6 % Non-GAAP Financial Data: (1) Ex-TAC Gross Profit $ 63,520 $ 60,411 Adjusted EBITDA $ 11,608 $ 20,583 ______________________ (1) Ex-TAC Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Revenue Revenue increased by $26.2 million, or 11.5%, to $254.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $228.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased $31.9 million, or 14.0% on a constant currency basis, reflecting net unfavorable fore ign currency effects of approximately $5.7 million. Our reported revenue growth was attributed to new media partners, including our newly acquired vi business. See "Non-GAAP Reconciliations" for information regarding the constant currency measures provided in this discussion and below to supplement our reported results. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Tr affic acquisition costs increased $23.1 million, or 13.8%, to $190.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $167.6 million in the prior year period. Traffic acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2022 included net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $4.0 million, and increased $27.1 million, or 16.2%, on a constant currency basis. Traffic acquisition costs grew more than revenue due to an unfavorable revenue mix and lower performance from certain deals. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs were 75.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 73.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Other cost of revenue increased $2.6 million, or 38.1%, to $9.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $6.9 million in the prior year period, primarily due to increased depreciation expense on server equipment and higher hosting fees due to continued platform improvements, including increased data processing capacity. This increase also includes costs from the newly acquired vi business, including amortization expense for developed technology. As a percentage of revenue, other cost of revenue was 3.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 3.0% in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Gross profit increased $0.5 million, or 0.9%, to $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $53.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2022 included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.6 million, and increased $2.1 million, or 3.9%, on a constant currency basis. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit increased $3.1 million, or 5.1%, to $63.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $60.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit for the three months ended March 31, 2022 includ ed net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.6 million, and increased $4.7 million, or 7.9%, on a constant currency basis. The increase in Ex-TAC Gross Profit was primarily driven by our revenue growth, offset by an unfavorable revenue mix and lower performance from certain deals. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and reconciliations to our gross profit. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased by $15.2 million, or 39.2%, to $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $38.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to higher personnel-related costs of $8.0 million, mainly driven by increased headcount and stock-based compensation expenses. The remaining increase was largely attributable increased public company-related costs of $1.9 million and regulatory matter costs of $1.7 million recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2022, as well as increased costs related to the transition from a largely remote to a post-COVID hybrid environment and expanded digital services taxes in Europe. The components of operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 are discussed below: Research and development expenses increased $2.0 million, primarily due higher personnel-related costs to invest in the growth of our platform. Sales and marketing expenses increased $7.5 million, which was largely attributable to higher personnel-related costs of $4.9 million. The remaining increase was mainly due to expanded digital services taxes, costs related to the transition from a largely remote to a hybrid environment and amortization of certain intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisition of vi. General and administrative expenses increased $5.7 million, primarily due to regulatory matter costs of $1.7 million, increased public company costs of $1.9 million and higher personnel-related costs of $1.2 million, and increased costs related to the transition from a largely remote to a hybrid environment. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased to 21.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from 17.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily driven by increased personnel-related costs as percentage of revenue. We continue to expect our operating expenses to be higher in 2022 as compared to 2021, excluding the 2021 one-time cost of $16.5 million of cumulative stock-based compensation expense for awards with an IPO performance condition. The expected increase in costs is due to higher personnel-related costs (including stock-based compensation) to support the growth of our business and 32 Table of Contents the current and expected continued competitive labor market conditions, as well as due to an increase in other sales and marketing costs and increased expenses associated with the transition from a largely remote to a post-COVID hybrid environment over the course of the year. In addition, our overall general and administrative expenses are expected to increase in future periods due to incremental costs associated with being a public company. Total Other Expense, Net Total other expense, net, increased $0.6 million to net expense of $3.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to a net expense of $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in total other expense, was primarily attributable to increased interest expenses of $1.7 million, driven by interest on our convertible senior notes during the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was partially offset by lower net foreign currency losses of $1.1 million, resulting from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, including mark-to-market adjustments on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts. (Benefit) Provision for Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to a provision for income taxes of $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, reflecting loss from operations in the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to income from operations in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our effective tax rate increased to 34.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to 13.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in our effective tax rate was primarily due to the release of the majority of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2021, resulting in our earnings in the U.S. being subject to tax during the three months ended March 31, 2022, as well as the inclusion of foreign subsidiaries income in the U.S. and certain non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses. Our future effective tax rate may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by our ongoing assessment of the need for valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the foregoing, we recorded net loss of $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to net income of $10.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Adjusted EBITDA Our Adjusted EBITDA decreased $9.0 million to $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $20.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, as the increase in our Ex-TAC Gross Profit, was more than offset by the increases in operating expenses and other costs of revenue, as we continue to invest in our business. Our Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2022 includ ed net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.6 million, and decreased $7.4 million on a constant currency basis. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to our net income. Non-GAAP Reconciliations Because we are a global company, the comparability of our operating results is affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. We calculate certain constant currency measures and foreign currency impacts by translating the current years reported amounts into comparable amounts using prior years exchange rates. All constant currency financial information being presented is non-GAAP and should be used as a supplement to our reported operating results. We believe that this information is helpful to our management and investors to assess our operating performance on a comparable basis. However, these measures are not intended to replace amounts presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from similar measures calculated by other companies. We present Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITD A, Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, and Free Cash Flow because they are key profitability measures used by our management and the Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, develop short-term and long-term operational plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. Accordingly, we believe that these measures provide information to investors and the market in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. 33 Table of Contents These non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled to the corresponding U.S. GAAP measures below. These non-GAAP financial measures are subject to significant limitations, including those identified below. In addition, other companies in our industry may define these measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. As a result, this information, should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue, gross profit, net income (loss) or net cash provided by operating activities presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Ex-TAC Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross profit is the most comparable GAAP measure. In calculating Ex-TAC Gross Profit, we add back other cost of revenue to gross profit. Ex-TAC Gross Profit may fluctuate in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to, seasonality and changes in the number of media partners and advertisers, advertiser demand or user engagements. There are limitations on the use of Ex-TAC Gross Profit in that traffic acquisition cost is a significant component of our total cost of revenue but not the only component and, by definition, Ex-TAC Gross Profit presented for any period will be higher than gross profit for that period. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry which have a similar business, may define Ex-TAC Gross Profit differently, which may make comparisons difficult. As a result, this information, should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue or gross profit presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of Ex-TAC Gross Profit to gross profit, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue $ 254,216 $ 228,024 Traffic acquisition costs (190,696) (167,613) Other cost of revenue (9,589) (6,942) Gross profit 53,931 53,469 Other cost of revenue 9,589 6,942 Ex-TAC Gross Profit $ 63,520 $ 60,411 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) before charges related to the exchange of senior notes upon IPO; interest expense; interest income and other income (expense), net; (benefit) provision for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation, and other income or expenses that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance, including, but not limited to, merger and acquisition costs, regulatory matter costs, and a tax contingency. We present Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure because we believe it facilitates operating performance comparisons from period to period. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. However, Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure and how we calculate Adjusted EBITDA is not necessarily comparable to non-GAAP information of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 34 Table of Contents The following table presents the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net (loss) income $ (1,890) $ 10,746 Interest expense and other income (expense), net 2,952 2,423 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (988) 1,611 Depreciation and amortization 6,268 4,527 Stock-based compensation 2,733 1,487 Regulatory matter costs 1,719 Merger and acquisition, public company implementation costs (1) 814 (211) Adjusted EBITDA $ 11,608 $ 20,583 Adjusted EBITDA as % of Ex-TAC Gross Profit 18.3 % 34.1 % _________________________ (1) Primarily includes costs related to our acquisition of vi in January 2022 and public company implementation costs. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is defined as cash flow provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow is a supplementary measure used by our management and the Board to evaluate our ability to generate cash and we believe it allows for a more complete analysis of our available cash flows. Free cash flow should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (2,641) $ 5,406 Purchases of property and equipment (2,809) (239) Capitalized software development costs (3,445) (2,529) Free cash flow $ (8,895) $ 2,638 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash from our operations, cash generated from our IPO and from the offering of our Convertible Notes, as well as available capacity under our revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2022, we had $410.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $38.9 million was held outside of the United States by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to continue to reinvest our earnings from foreign operations for the foreseeable future, and do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. Our primary source of operating cash flows is cash receipts from advertisers. We primarily use our operating cash for payments due to media partners and vendors, as well as for personnel costs and other employee-related expenditures. We have historically experienced higher cash collections during our first quarter due to seasonally strong fourth quarter sales, and, as a result, our working capital needs typically decrease during this quarter. We expect these trends to continue as we continue to grow our business. 35 Table of Contents Our cash flow used in investing activities primarily consists of capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. We spent $2.8 million in capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and continue to anticipate that our capital expenditures will be between $21 million and $24 million in 2022, including incremental leasehold improvements of approximately $5 million relating to headcount growth and costs associated with adapting to post-Covid hybrid work environment. Capital expenditures for 2022 also include expenditures for servers and related equipment and office equipment. However, actual amounts may vary from these estimates. We believe that the net proceeds from our IPO and the offering of the senior notes (exchanged to convertible notes upon our IPO), together with our cash and cash equivalents and borrowings available to us, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses, capital expenditures, and interest payments on our long-term debt for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. In addition, we may use our available cash to make acquisitions or investments in complementary companies or technologies. We also expect to use cash from our operations to fund share repurchases under our $30 million share repurchase authorization announced in February 2022. However, there are multiple factors that could impact our future liquidity, including our ability to collect payments from our advertisers, having to pay our media partners even if our advertisers decrease their payments due to economic conditions, or other factors incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 1A of this Report and included elsewhere in this Report. The following table presents a summary of our debt obligation and our borrowing capacity as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 (in thousands) Long-term debt Convertible Notes due July 1, 2026 $ 236,000 $ 236,000 Total long-term debt $ 236,000 $ 236,000 2021 Revolving Credit Facility with Silicon Valley Bank (1) Total availability (up to $75.0 million with $15.0 million for letters of credit) $ 69,765 $ 75,000 Borrowings outstanding Remaining availability $ 69,765 $ 75,000 (1) The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility will terminate on the earlier of (i) November 2, 2026 or (ii) 120 days prior to the maturity date of the Companys 2.95% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026, unless the Convertible Notes have been converted to common equity securities of the Company. Our obligations and the obligations of the other subsidiary co-borrowers under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility are secured by a first-priority lien on substantially all our assets and the assets such other subsidiary co-borrowers. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility contains representations and warranties, including, without limitation, with respect to collateral; accounts receivable; financials; litigation, indictment and compliance with laws; disclosure and no material adverse effect, each of which is a condition to funding. Additionally, the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility includes events of default and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries, including, without limitation, restrictions on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, dispositions, restricted payments and prepayment of the Convertible Notes and of junior indebtedness. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility contains a financial covenant that requires, in the event that credit extensions under the Facility equal or exceed 85% of the lesser of the available commitments under the Facility or upon the occurrence of an event of defaults, our Company to maintain a minimum consolidated monthly fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00. We were in compliance with all of the financial covenants under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. See Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for detailed information relating to our Convertible Notes and our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. 36 Table of Contents Treasury Share Repurchases On February 28, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to purchase up to $30 million of our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, with no requirement to purchase any minimum number of shares. The manner, timing, and actual number of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. Shares may be repurchased through privately negotiated transactions, or open market purchases, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or terminated at any time by us at our own discretion without prior notice. We may also from time to time withhold shares in connection with tax obligations related to vesting of restricted stock units in accordance with the terms of our equity incentive plans and the underlying award agreements. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, we withheld 117,637 shares and 26,344 shares, respectively, with a fair value of $1.7 million and $0.2 million , respectively, to satisfy the minimum employee tax withholding obligations. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the major components of net cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (2,641) $ 5,406 Net cash used in investing activities (40,764) (2,787) Net cash used in financing activities (458) (807) Effect of exchange rate changes (663) (430) Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (44,526) $ 1,382 Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities decreased $8.0 million, to net cash used in operating activities of $2.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to $5.4 million of cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 , primarily driven by a $10.7 million decrease in our net income after non-cash adjustments. Our free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was use of cash of $8.9 million, as compared to free cash flow of $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, due to lower profitability and higher capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and a reconciliation to net cash provided by operating activities. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities increased $38.0 million, to $40.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $2.8 million in the same prior year period, primarily due to $34.5 million of consideration paid, net of cash acquired for our acquisition of vi, as well as higher capital expenditures of $2.6 million, primarily attributable to our purchases of servers and related equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities decreased $0.3 million to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Contractual Obligations Except as disclosed in Note 6, Leases, to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, there were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in our commitments and contractual obligations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from the commitments and contractual obligations disclosed in our 2021 Form 10-K. 37 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our 2021 Form 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not have any interest in entities referred to as variable interest entities, which includes special purpose entities and other structured finance entities. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, delaying the adoption of some accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that have adopted new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for recently adopted accounting standards, and the impact on our financial statements upon adoption.