Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 8, 2024 (2023 Form 10-K). In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, beliefs, and expectations, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, events, or circumstances to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2023 Form 10-K and in the section entitled Risk Factors in our definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on October 31, 2024, which are incorporated by reference in this report, as updated and supplemented by the risk factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Report as such factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent filings with the SEC, as well as those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, including under the caption Note About Forward-Looking Statements. The purpose of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is to provide the readers of our financial statements with narrative information from our management, which is necessary to understand our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we use certain non-GAAP financial measures throughout this discussion to provide investors with supplemental metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision making. These measures are supplemental and are not an alternative to our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Business Overview Outbrain Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, Outbrain, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated in August 2006 in Delaware. The Company is headquartered in New York, New York with various wholly-owned subsidiaries, including in Israel, Europe and Asia. Outbrain is a leading technology platform that drives business results by connecting media owners and advertisers with engaged audiences to drive business outcomes, reaching over a billion unique consumers around the world. Outbrains artificial intelligence (AI) prediction engine powers a two-sided platform (including our proprietary demand side platforms and supply side platform) for advertisers and media owners that delivers concrete business outcomes enabling advertisers to maximize return-on-ad-spend (ROAS). Our platform enables thousands of digital media owners to provide tailored experiences to their audiences, delivering audience engagement and monetization. For tens of thousands of advertisers, from enterprise brands to performance marketers, our platform optimizes audience attention and engagement to deliver greater return on investment at each step of the marketing funnel. Outbrain operates a two-sided marketplace, which means we usually have exclusive control over all aspects of the consumer experience, allowing us to quickly test and deploy new formats for our advertisers and media owners. Since inception, we have been guided by the same core principles pertaining to our three constituents: consumers, media partners, and advertisers. Consumers. Our platform is centered on predicting consumer attention and engagement. We believe that by focusing our algorithm on optimizing toward these consumer-centric factors, we are able to cultivate user behavior patterns that compound over time, delivering greater effectiveness and efficiency for our advertisers, superior long-term monetization for our media partners, as well as increased value for Outbrain. Media Partners. We are committed to supporting the long-term success of our media partners. We strive to develop multi-year contracts with media partners, with the objective of delivering long-term revenue and deeper audience engagement. Our media partners include both traditional publishers and companies in new and rapidly evolving categories, such as mobile device manufacturers. Some key partners with which we have long-standing relationships across our various regions include Asahi Shimbun, CNN, Der Spiegel, Le Monde, MSN, New York Post, Sky News and Sky Sports, and The Washington Post. Advertisers. We offer unique advertising solutions across the marketing funnel and provide a single access point to not only reach, but drive real business outcomes from consumers across the Open Internet. We provide advertisers from enterprise brands to performance marketers, as well as their agencies, with solutions to optimize consumer attention and engagement, to deliver accountable business results and greater return on investment. 29 Through our direct, usually exclusive code-on-page integrations with media owners, we have become one of the largest online advertising platforms on the Open Internet. In 2023, we provided personalized ads to over a billion monthly unique consumers, delivering on average over 12 billion experiences promoting content, services, and products per day, with tens of thousands of advertisers directly using our platform. We generate revenue from advertisers through ads that we deliver across a variety of media partner properties. We charge advertisers for clicks on and, to a lesser extent, impressions of their ads, depending on how they choose to contract with us. The following is a summary of our performance for the periods presented: Our revenue was $224.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $230.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, including net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.3 million. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was $655.3 million, compared to $687.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Our gross profit was $48.9 million and our gross margin was 21.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to gross profit of $46.4 million and gross margin of 20.2% for the comparable period in 2023. Our gross profit was $136.0 million and our gross margin was 20.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to gross profit of $131.6 million and gross margin of 19.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) was $59.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $56.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) was $167.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $163.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Our net income was $6.7 million, or 13.7% of gross profit, in the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to net income of $0.5 million, or 1.1% of gross profit, for the comparable period in 2023. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, our net loss was $0.5 million, or (0.4)% of gross profit, compared to net income of $6.2 million, or 4.7% of gross profit, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Our Adjusted EBITDA(1) was $11.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $10.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Adjusted EBITDA(1) was 19.3% and 18.1% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) in the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our Adjusted EBITDA(1) was $20.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $14.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Adjusted EBITDA(1) was 12.1% and 8.8% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. ______________________ (1)Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, and constant currency measures are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the comparable GAAP financial measures. Recent Developments Repurchase of Outstanding Convertible Notes On September 19, 2024, we repurchased the remaining $118.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.95% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the Convertible Notes) out of the initially issued principal balance of $236.0 million via a privately negotiated repurchase agreement with Baupost Group Securities, L.L.C., the sole holder of the Convertible Notes, for approximately $109.7 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a discount of approximately 7.5% to the principal amount of the repurchased notes. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $8.8 million within gain on convertible debt in the Companys consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. Following the closing of the repurchase, the repurchased notes were cancelled by The Bank of New York Mellon (the Trustee), and there were no Convertible Notes outstanding as of September 30, 2024. Share Purchase Agreement On August 1, 2024, we entered into a definitive share purchase agreement (the Agreement) with Altice Teads S.A. (the Seller or Altice), a public limited liability company (socit anonyme) incorporated and existing under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the sole shareholder of Teads S.A., a public limited liability company (socit anonyme) incorporated and existing under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (Teads), and Teads. Pursuant to the Agreement, we agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Teads upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement (the Transaction). 30 The Agreement provides for the following consideration to be paid to the Seller at closing of the Transaction (the Closing): (1) a cash payment of $725.0 million, subject to certain customary adjustments as set forth in the Agreement (the Cash Consideration), (2) 35.0 million newly issued shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.001 (the Common Stock; such newly issued shares of Common Stock, the Consideration Common Stock), and (3) 10.5 million newly issued shares of the Companys Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 (the Series A Preferred Stock and, together with the Consideration Common Stock, the Consideration Stock). Additionally, the Seller will be entitled to a deferred cash payment in an amount equal to $25.0 million payable in one or more installments subject to compliance with the financing covenants. Following the Closing, the Seller will own approximately 41% of the Companys issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 48% assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock (based on the amount of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of September 30, 2024). Subject to certain conditions, either we or the Seller may terminate the Agreement if the Closing has not occurred by the date which is nine months after the date of the Agreement, which date may be extended for three additional periods of three months each if the reason for not closing is that the regulatory conditions have not been satisfied. The Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants for a transaction of this type. Closing under the Agreement is subject to customary conditions, including (1) approval of our stockholders to the issuance of the Consideration Stock in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Nasdaq Stock Market and our organizational documents (the Stockholder Approval), (2) the absence of any law or order issued by any governmental authority prohibiting or preventing the consummation of the Transaction, (3) obtaining certain regulatory approvals, including the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (4) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of, and compliance with covenants by, each of the parties to the Agreement, and (5) the absence of a Material Adverse Event (as defined in the Agreement). See Notes 3 and 10 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Transaction. Conditions in Israel Many of our employees, including certain members of our management team and board of directors, operate from Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may directly affect our business and operations. In October 2023, Hamas terrorists infiltrated Israels southern border from the Gaza strip and conducted a series of attacks on civilian and military targets. Hamas also launched extensive rocket attacks on the Israeli population and industrial centers located along Israels border with the Gaza strip and in other areas within the State of Israel. These attacks resulted in extensive deaths, injuries and the kidnapping of civilians and soldiers. In response, Israels security cabinet declared war against Hamas and a military campaign against this terrorist organization commenced in parallel to their continued rocket and terror attacks. In addition, since the commencement of these events, there have been continued hostilities along Israels northern border with Lebanon with the Hezbollah terror organization, along the Red Sea (a vital maritime route for international trade to Israel) with the Houthis of Yemen, and on other fronts, including with various rebel militia groups in Syria and Iraq. Israel has carried out a number of targeted strikes on sites belonging to these terror organizations, and in October 2024, Israel began limited ground operations against Hezbollah in Lebanon. In addition, Iran recently launched direct attacks on Israel involving hundreds of drones and missiles and has threatened to continue to attack Israel. Israel has responded by launching direct attacks against certain targets in Iran. These situations may escalate in the future into more violent events or greater regional conflict which may affect Israel and us. The draft of Israeli military reservists, as well as the evacuation of Israeli citizens from areas near conflict zones have adversely affected our employees impacted by such actions. In addition, future government-imposed restrictions and precautions in response to such conflicts may negatively impact our employees, management and directors by interrupting their ability to effectively perform their roles and responsibilities. In addition, further hostilities involving Israel, possible damage to facilities and infrastructure, increased cyber attacks, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, and/or the willingness to do business with companies with operations in Israel, as well as macroeconomic indications of deterioration of Israels economic standing as reflected in the downgrading in Israels credit rating by rating agencies that took place in parallel to these events, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. The intensity and duration of Israels current war against Hamas, Hezbollah, and the other terror organizations is difficult to predict and we are continuing to monitor the situation and assessing its potential impact on our business. We cannot attribute the impact of the current trends in advertising demand to any particular factor, including the conditions in Israel, and cannot predict the impact if the war continues or escalates further. See Item 1A Risk Factors included in our 2023 Form 10-K for more information regarding certain risks associated with the conditions in Israel. 31 Macroeconomic Environment General worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced significant instability, as well as volatility and disruption in the financial markets, resulting from factors including the effects of the wars between Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas and the expansion of such conflict, bank closures, the outcome of the U.S. presidential election and general economic uncertainty. The current macroeconomic environment, with variables such as inflation, increased interest rates, bank disruptions, recessionary concerns, bankruptcies, currency exchange rate fluctuations, global supply chain disruptions, and labor market volatility, has negatively impacted our advertisers. Accordingly, these conditions have adversely impacted our business and could, if they continue or worsen, adversely impact us in the future, including if our advertisers were to reduce or further reduce their advertising spending as a result of any of these factors. We continue to monitor our operations, and the operations of those in our ecosystem (including media partners, advertisers, and agencies). These conditions make it difficult for us, our media partners, advertisers, and agencies to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause a further reduction or delay in overall advertising demand and spending or impact our advertisers ability to pay, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Factors Affecting Our Business Retention and Growth of Relationships with Media Partners We rely on relationships with our media partners for a significant portion of our advertising inventory and our corresponding ability to drive advertising revenue. To further strengthen these relationships, we continuously invest in our technology and product functionality to drive user engagement and monetization by (i) improving our algorithms, referred to as our AI prediction engine; (ii) effectively managing supply and demand; (iii) expanding the adoption of our enhanced products by media partners; and (iv) expanding our demand capabilities to new formats and business lines such as Onyx, a branding platform designed to maximize consumer attention to deliver more effective branding and consideration campaigns. Our relationships with media partners are typically long-term, exclusive, and strategic in nature. Our top 20 media partners, based on our 2023 revenue, have been using our platform for an average of seven years, despite their typical contract length being two to four years. Net revenue retention is an important indicator of media partner satisfaction, the value of our platform, as well as our ability to grow revenue from existing relationships. We calculate media partner net revenue retention at the end of each quarter by starting with revenue generated on media partners properties during the same period in the prior year, Prior Period Retention Revenue. We then calculate the revenue generated on these same media partners properties in the current period, Current Period Retention Revenue. Current Period Retention Revenue reflects any expansions within the media partner relationships, such as any additional placements or properties on which we extend our recommendations, as well as contraction or attrition. Our media partner net revenue retention in a quarter equals the Current Period Retention Revenue divided by the Prior Period Retention Revenue. To calculate media partner net revenue retention for year-to-date and annual periods, we sum the quarterly Current Period Retention Revenue and divide it by the sum of the quarterly Prior Period Retention Revenue. These amounts exclude certain revenue adjustments and revenue recognized on a net basis. Our media partner net revenue retention was approximately 91% and 89%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. Our growth also depends on our ability to secure partnerships with new media partners. New media partners are defined as those relationships in which revenue was not generated in the prior period, except for limited instances where residual revenue was generated on a media partners properties. In such instances, the residual revenue would be excluded from net revenue retention above. Revenue generated on new media partners properties contributed approximately 7% and 6%, respectively, to revenue growth for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. Our growth depends on media partners ability to drive traffic to their sites and generate page views. The proliferation of social media properties, streaming services and other platforms, as well as the adoption of AI have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our media partners growth. User Engagement with Relevant Media and Advertising Content Driving attention and engagement is the key pillar of our platform that drives value for consumers, media partners, and advertisers. Our AI prediction algorithm manages this dynamic, matching consumers with editorial and advertiser experiences that will deliver attention and engagement across the Open Internet. We believe that the user experience has a profound impact on long term user behavior patterns and thus compounds over time, improving our long-term monetization prospects. This principle guides our behavior, and as a result, we do not focus on the price of ads, nor on maximizing such prices, as key performance indicators for the business. We strive to compound consumer attention and engagement, continually enhancing value for both advertisers and media owners. 32 Growth in attention and engagement is driven by several factors, including enhancements to our AI prediction technology, growth in the breadth and depth of our data assets, the size and quality of our content and advertising index, user engagement, new media partners, and expansion on existing media partners. As we grow attention and engagement, we are able to collect more data and continually improve our prediction engine which drives better results for our advertiser and media owner partners. This growth flywheel can be measured by growth of the consumer data points we drive, such as click-through-rate (CTR). CTR improvements increase the number of clicks on our platform. We believe that we have a significant opportunity to further grow consumer engagement, and thus our business, as today CTR for ads on our platform is less than 1% of ads served. With the launch of Onyx, we have expanded the measurable consumer data points that fuel our prediction engine, expanding our ability to drive concrete business outcomes at each step of the marketing funnel. Our Onyx platform optimizes towards an accountable outcome: attention. Onyx enables advertisers to deliver concrete ROAS with their branding campaigns, by providing high audience attention and corresponding incremental outcomes as a result, rather than ad views alone. Advertiser Retention and Growth Our engine serves the ad experiences that are predicted to deliver high attention or engagement, rather than on price of the ads. We believe this approach leads to better ROAS for advertisers, whether they are focused on driving a performance outcome, or a branding outcome. Our growth is partially driven by retaining and expanding the amount of spend by advertisers on our platform, as well as by acquiring new advertisers. Our launch of Onyx by Outbrain expanded Outbrains total addressable market to now include top of the funnel marketing dollars while also attracting more diverse, premium demand. We continually invest in enhancements to our platform that allow advertisers to drive concrete business outcomes and ROAS. In particular, we are expanding our usage of AI to automate manual tasks in campaign set up and optimization, and to enhance advertiser creative and landing page performance. Prices paid by advertisers on our platform fluctuate period to period for a variety of reasons, including supply and demand balance, macroeconomic conditions, and seasonality. In order to grow our revenue and Ex-TAC Gross Profit and maximize value for our advertisers and media partners, our focus as a business is on driving business outcomes and ROAS for advertisers, not on optimizing for price. For the year ended December 31, 2023, tens of thousands of unique advertisers were active on our owned and operated platform, in addition to the thousands of advertisers who access Outbrain and Onyx environments through our programmatic partnerships. Expansion Into New Environments, New Experiences and New Ad Formats The accelerating pace of technological innovation has rapidly changed consumer habits. The available mediums and formats for consumers to engage with media has greatly expanded over the last several years. As this evolution in media consumption and consumer behavior continues, we are focused on utilizing our AI prediction technology to bring curated, relevant consumer experiences to these new devices, experiences and formats. Fundamentally, we plan to continue to make our platform available for media partners on all types of devices and platforms and evolve our business to apply our technology to the most popular methods of media consumption, which now include unique video, high-impact display, and other new media experiences. Examples of new environments in which content consumption is expected to grow include pre-installed applications on Smartphones, Smartphone content feeds, gaming applications, push notifications and connected TV. Additionally, we believe there is a strong opportunity to develop better personalization solutions for the visual and video consumption of news media across the Open Internet. Through our acquisition of video intelligence AG (vi), a Swiss-based contextual video technology company for digital media owners in the first quarter of 2022, we expanded our video product offerings to new formats and environments, including pre-roll video formats. With the introduction of Onyx by Outbrain, we have expanded our investment in applying our AI prediction to these new video and high-impact formats, delivering a curated consumer experience that drives attention for enterprise brands. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic acquisition or investment opportunities as part of our growth strategy in the future. The development and deployment of new ad formats allow us to better serve consumers, media partners and, ultimately, advertisers who seek to target and engage consumers at scale; we believe this continues to open and grow new types of advertiser demand, while ensuring relevance as the environments in which we operate diversify. 33 Investment in Our Technology and Infrastructure Innovation is a core tenet of our Company and our industry. We plan to continue our investments in our people and our technology in order to retain and enhance our competitive position. For example, improvements to our AI prediction engine help us deliver more relevant ads, driving higher user engagement, thereby improving ROAS for advertisers and increasing monetization for our media partners. We strongly believe in the transformative power of AI in shaping the future of sustainable media, and have been utilizing AI technology for years to empower both media owners and advertisers in their businesses. We leverage AI in a manner designed to enable media owners to increase their revenues and connect with audiences on their own platforms within the Open Internet. We use machine learning to predict consumer interest and propensity to convert ads to sales. We make around 1 billion such predictions every second. Our technology has developed into a robust AI machine learning system and is largely homegrown by our Research and Development team. One of the strongest long-term levers in our business is the continuous improvement of our algorithms and the data sets our algorithms learn from. Our direct integrations across our media partners properties provide us with a large volume of proprietary first-party data, including context, user interest and behavioral signals. The more data points we have, the better our CTR predictions and yield potential can be. Our Smartlogic product dynamically adjusts both the arrangement and the formats of content delivered to a user, depending on the users preferences and our media partners key performance indicators (KPIs), designed to provide a tailored and engaging feed experience. We continue to invest in media partner and advertiser focused tools, technology, and products as well as privacy-centric solutions. For example, Keystone by Outbrain enables a more holistic management of overall revenue for media owners increasingly focused on revenue diversification. We believe that our proprietary micro-services, API-based cloud infrastructure provides us with a strategic competitive advantage, as we are able to deploy code hundreds of times per day and grow in a scalable and highly cost-effective manner. As we develop and deploy solutions for enhanced integration of our technologies in new environments, with new content and ad formats, we anticipate activity through our platform to grow. We anticipate that the investment in our technology, infrastructure and solutions will contribute to our long-term growth. Industry Dynamics Our business depends on the overall demand for digital advertising, on the continuous success of our current and prospective media partners, and on general market conditions. Digital advertising is a rapidly growing industry, with growth that has outpaced the growth of the broader advertising industry. Content consumption continues to shift online, requiring media owners to adapt in order to successfully attract, engage and monetize their consumers. The soaring volume of online content, amplified by the latest generative AI innovations, has made content curation tools even more essential for consumers and media owners alike. AI is revolutionizing content creation, distribution, and personalization; automating tasks like video editing, image recognition, and language translation. AI-powered systems are also improving content delivery, helping media platforms suggest relevant movies, shows, articles, and advertisements to consumers. This is especially important at a time when advertisers increasingly anticipate measurable results from their digital advertising investments. Our experience in this space enables us to more nimbly capitalize on the opportunities for media owners and advertisers to leverage AI and automation to engage consumers and optimize their business goals. Regulators across most developed markets are increasingly focused on enacting and enforcing user privacy rules as well as exerting tighter oversight on the major walled garden platforms. Industry participants have recently been, and likely will continue to be, impacted by changes implemented by platform leaders, such as Apples change to its Identifier for Advertisers policy and Googles evolving roadmap pertaining to the use of third-party cookies within its Chrome web browser. See Item 1A, Risk Factors'' in our 2023 Form 10-K for additional information regarding changing industry dynamics with respect to industry participants and the regulatory environment. Given our focus on context and engagement, the depth and length of our media partner relationships, and our scale, we believe that we are well positioned in the long-term to address and potentially benefit from many of these industry dynamics. Additionally, we are confident that our strength in delivering engagement and clear outcomes for advertisers, built on our proprietary AI prediction engine, aligns well with the ongoing market shift towards increased accountability and expectations of ROAS from digital advertising spend. 34 Seasonality The global advertising industry experiences seasonal trends that affect most participants in the digital advertising ecosystem. Our revenue generally fluctuates from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonality, as many advertisers allocate the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with increased holiday purchasing, as well as the timing of advertising budget cycles. Historically, the fourth quarter of the year has reflected the highest levels of advertiser spending, and the first quarter generally has reflected the lowest level of advertiser spending. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and discretionary in nature, reflecting changes in brand advertising strategy, budgeting constraints, and buying patterns, and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. The quarterly rate of increase in our traffic acquisition costs is generally commensurate with the quarterly rate of increase in our revenue. However, traffic acquisition costs have, at times, grown at a faster or slower rate than revenue, primarily due to the mix of the revenue generated or contracted terms with media partners. We generally expect these seasonal trends to continue, though historical seasonality may not be predictive of future results given the potential for changes in advertising buying patterns and macroeconomic conditions. These trends will affect our operating results and we expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Revenue We generate revenue from advertisers through ads that we deliver across a variety of media partner properties. We charge advertisers for clicks on and, to a lesser extent, impressions of their ads, depending on how they choose to contract with us. We recognize revenue in the period in which the click or impression occurs. The amount of revenue that we generate depends on the level of demand from advertisers on our media partners properties. We generate higher revenue at times of high demand, which is also impacted by seasonal factors. For any given marketing campaign, the advertiser has the ability to adjust its price in real time and set a maximum spend. This allows advertisers to adjust the estimated ad spend attributable to the particular campaign. Due to the measurable performance that our advertisers achieve with us, a portion of our advertisers increase their level of spend with us over time as long as their ROAS objectives are met. Our agreements with advertisers provide them with considerable flexibility to modify their overall budget, price (cost-per-click or cost-per-impression), and the ads they wish to deliver on our platform. Traffic Acquisition Costs We define traffic acquisition costs (TAC) as amounts owed to media partners for their share of the revenue we generated on their properties. We incur traffic acquisition costs in the period in which the revenue is recognized. Traffic acquisition costs are based on the media partners revenue share or, in some circumstances, based on a guaranteed minimum rate of payment from us in exchange for guaranteed placement of our ads on specified portions of the media partners digital properties. These guaranteed rates are typically provided per thousand qualified page views, whereas our minimum monthly payment to the media partner may fluctuate based on how many qualified page views the media partner generates, generally subject to a maximum guarantee. As such, traffic acquisition costs may not correlate with fluctuations in revenue, and our rates may remain fixed even with a decrease in revenue. Traffic acquisition costs also include amounts payable to programmatic supply partners. Other Cost of Revenue Other cost of revenue consists of costs related to the management of our data centers, hosting fees, data connectivity costs and depreciation and amortization. Other cost of revenue also includes the amortization of capitalized software that is developed or obtained for internal use associated with our revenue-generating technologies. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs. Personnel costs consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. 35 Research and Development. Research and development expenses are related to the development and enhancement of our platform and consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, amortization of capitalized software for non-revenue generating infrastructure and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs for personnel engaged in marketing, advertising, client services, and promotional activities. These expenses also include advertising and promotional spend on media, conferences, and other events to market our services, and facilities costs. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, professional fees, facilities costs, insurance, and certain taxes other than income taxes. General and administrative personnel costs include, among others, our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal functions. Our professional service fees consist primarily of accounting, audit, tax, legal, information technology and other consulting costs, including our compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of gain on convertible debt, interest expense, and interest income and other income, net. Gain on Convertible Debt. In April 2023, we repurchased $118.0 million of our Convertible Notes at a discount of approximately 19% of the principal amount and recorded a pre-tax gain of $22.6 million. In September 2024, we repurchased the remaining $118.0 million of our Convertible Notes at a discount of approximately 7.5% of the principal amount and recorded a pre-tax gain of $8.8 million. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest expense on the Convertible Notes, our revolving credit facility and our prior finance leases. Interest expense may increase if we incur any borrowings under our revolving credit facility or if we enter into new debt facilities or finance lease arrangements. Interest Income and Other Income, net. Interest income and other income, net primarily consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities, discount amortization on our investments in marketable securities, and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, both realized and unrealized, relate to transactions and monetary asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, including mark-to-market adjustments on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts. Foreign currency gains and losses may continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as deferred income taxes and changes in valuation allowance, reflecting the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Realization of our deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income. In considering the need for a valuation allowance, we consider our historical and future projected taxable income, as well as other objectively verifiable evidence, including our realization of tax attributes, assessment of tax credits and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. 36 Results of Operations We have one operating segment, which is also our reportable segment. The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 (In thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue $ 224,177 $ 230,015 $ 655,289 $ 687,589 Cost of revenue: Traffic acquisition costs 164,483 173,224 487,484 524,024 Other cost of revenue 10,825 10,401 31,765 31,999 Total cost of revenue 175,308 183,625 519,249 556,023 Gross profit 48,869 46,390 136,040 131,566 Operating expenses: Research and development 9,053 8,681 27,646 28,033 Sales and marketing 23,201 21,472 71,762 73,116 General and administrative 19,564 13,617 51,805 44,766 Total operating expenses 51,818 43,770 151,213 145,915 (Loss) income from operations (2,949) 2,620 (15,173) (14,349) Other income (expense): Gain on convertible debt 8,782 8,782 22,594 Interest expense (1,444) (1,456) (2,950) (4,428) Interest income and other income, net 3,536 358 7,687 5,733 Total other income (expense), net 10,874 (1,098) 13,519 23,899 Income (loss) before income taxes 7,925 1,522 (1,654) 9,550 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1,229 1,014 (1,110) 3,365 Net income (loss) $ 6,696 $ 508 $ (544) $ 6,185 Other Financial Data: Research and development as % of revenue 4.0 % 3.8% 4.2 % 4.1% Sales and marketing as % of revenue 10.3 % 9.3% 11.0 % 10.6% General and administrative as % of revenue 8.7 % 5.9% 7.9 % 6.5% Ex-TAC Gross Profit (1) $ 59,694 $ 56,791 $ 167,805 $ 163,565 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 11,531 $ 10,253 $ 20,337 $ 14,451 __________________________ (1)Ex-TAC Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 Revenue Revenue decreased $5.8 million, or 2.5%, to $224.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, from $230.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 included net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.3 million, and decreased $7.1 million, or 3.1%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. Our reported revenue decline was primarily attributable to a decrease of approximately $21 million due to net revenue retention of approximately 91% on existing media partners, as we have experienced lower ad impressions from certain supply partners. This decrease was partially offset by growth of approximately 6.6%, or $15 million, from new media partners. 37 See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for information regarding the constant currency measures provided in this discussion and below to supplement our reported results. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Traffic acquisition costs decreased $8.7 million, or 5.0%, to $164.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $173.2 million in the prior year period. Traffic acquisition costs included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $1.2 million, and decreased $9.9 million, or 5.7%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs was primarily related to the decrease in our revenue, a net favorable change in our revenue mix, and improved performance from certain deals. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs decreased 190 basis points to 73.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, from 75.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Other cost of revenue increased $0.4 million, or 4.1%, to $10.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $10.4 million in the prior year period, primarily due to increased hosting costs. As a percentage of revenue, other cost of revenue increased to 4.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, from 4.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Gross profit increased $2.5 million, or 5.3%, to $48.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $46.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was largely attributable to lower traffic acquisition costs, partially offset by lower revenue, as previously described. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit increased $2.9 million, or 5.1%, to $59.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, from $56.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as the impact of lower revenue was more than offset by the net favorable change in our revenue mix and improved performance from certain deals. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and reconciliations to our gross profit. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased $8.0 million, or 18.4%, to $51.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, from $43.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily attributable to acquisition-related costs of $5.6 million recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2024, and increased personnel-related costs of $3.0 million, offset in part by a $0.7 million reduction in our provision for credit losses. The components of operating expenses are discussed below: Research and development expenses increased $0.4 million, primarily due to higher personnel-related costs during the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period. Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.7 million, primarily due to a $1.0 million increase in personnel-related costs, as well as higher marketing and advertising costs during the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period. General and administrative expenses increased $5.9 million, primarily due to acquisition-related costs of $5.6 million recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2024 and increased personnel-related costs of $1.7 million, offset in part by a $0.7 million reduction in our provision for credit losses. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 410 basis points to 23.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2024 from 19.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to increased acquisition-related costs and lower revenue. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, increased $12.0 million to $10.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to net expense of $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily driven by a pre-tax gain of approximately $8.8 million recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2024 in connection with our repurchase of the remaining Convertible Notes, a favorable change of $1.4 million in mark-to-market adjustments on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts used to manage our foreign currency exchange risk on net cash flows from 38 our non-U.S. dollar denominated operations, and an increase of $1.4 million resulting from the remeasurement of transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, and $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Our effective tax rate decreased to 15.5% in the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to 66.6% in the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to the favorable impact relating to our uncertain tax positions (including resolution of a tax audit), a change to our foreign-derived intangible income deduction, and the change in our valuation allowance, partially offset by the favorable return to provision adjustments, and certain non-deductible stock-based compensation and transaction costs. A provision enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Cuts & Jobs Act requires companies to capitalize certain research and experimental expenditures for tax purposes in tax years beginning after December 31, 2021. As a result, excluding the impacts relating to the Convertible Debt repurchase and the Teads Transaction, we expect to pay higher cash taxes and expect our effective tax rate to be more favorably impacted by a deduction related to foreign-derived intangible income in 2024. Our future effective tax rate may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by our ongoing assessment of the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, tax planning initiatives, as well as certain discrete items. Net Income (Loss) As a result of the foregoing, we recorded net income of $6.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to net income of $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Adjusted EBITDA Our Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.2 million to $11.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 from $10.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, due to higher Ex-TAC Gross Profit, offset in part by higher operating expenses, as previously described. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to our net income (loss). Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 Revenue Revenue decreased $32.3 million, or 4.7%, to $655.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 from $687.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Our reported revenue decreased approximately $72 million due to net revenue retention of approximately 89% on existing media partners, as we have experienced lower ad impressions from certain supply partners. This decrease was partially offset by growth of approximately 5.7%, or $39 million, from new media partners. See "Non-GAAP Reconciliations" for information regarding the constant currency measures provided in this discussion and below to supplement our reported results. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Traffic acquisition costs decreased $36.5 million, or 7.0%, to $487.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $524.0 million in the prior year period. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs was primarily related to the decrease in our revenue, a net favorable change in our revenue mix and improved performance from certain deals. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs decreased 180 basis points to 74.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from 76.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Other cost of revenue decreased $0.2 million, or 0.7%, to $31.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $32.0 million in the prior year period, primarily due to lower server depreciation expense and network costs, partially offset by higher hosting costs. As a percentage of revenue, other cost of revenue increased to 4.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from 4.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. 39 Gross profit increased $4.4 million, or 3.4%, to $136.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $131.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was largely attributable to lower traffic acquisition costs, partially offset by lower revenue, as previously described. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit increased $4.2 million, or 2.6%, to $167.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from $163.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as the impact of lower revenue was more than offset by the net favorable change in our revenue mix and improved performance from certain deals. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and reconciliations to our gross profit. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased $5.3 million, or 3.6%, to $151.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from $145.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The reported increase in operating expenses was primarily attributable to higher professional fees of $7.8 million (including acquisition-related costs of $8.8 million recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, offset in part by the absence of the prior period regulatory matter costs of $0.7 million). The increase in operating expenses was also driven by a $3.0 million increase in personnel-related costs largely driven by higher incentive-based compensation. These increases were partially offset by a lower provision for credit losses of $3.1 million and a $2.4 million decrease in severance and related costs. The components of operating expenses as compared to the prior year period are discussed below: Research and development expenses decreased $0.4 million, primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs, largely due to lower severance costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.3 million, primarily due to a $1.8 million decrease in personnel-related costs largely attributable to lower severance and related costs, partially offset by increased travel costs. General and administrative expenses increased $7.0 million, primarily attributable to higher professional fees of $7.8 million (inclusive of acquisition-related costs of $8.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, offset in part by the absence of the prior period regulatory matter costs of $0.7 million), and higher personnel costs of $2.9 million largely driven by increased incentive-based compensation costs. These increases were partially offset by a $3.1 million decrease in the provision for credit losses, as well as lower insurance costs. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 190 basis points to 23.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 from 21.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily attributable to increased acquisition-related costs and lower revenue. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net decreased $10.4 million, to $13.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from $23.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily driven by a lower pre-tax gain of $13.8 million recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the prior year period, in connection with the repurchases of our Convertible Notes. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $1.7 million resulting from the remeasurement of transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, as well as reduced interest expense of $1.5 million due to the lower outstanding principal balance of Convertible Notes. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes was $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to provision for income taxes of $3.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to pre-tax loss during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to pre-tax income in the prior year period. Our effective tax rate increased to 67.1% in the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to 35.2% in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of uncertain tax positions (including resolution of a tax audit) and the change in valuation allowance, partially offset by certain non-deductible stock-based compensation and transaction costs and the tax impact related to the profitability of non-U.S. jurisdictions. 40 A provision enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Cuts & Jobs Act requires companies to capitalize certain research and experimental expenditures for tax purposes in tax years beginning after December 31, 2021. As a result, excluding the impacts relating to the Convertible Debt repurchase and the Teads Transaction, we expect to pay higher cash taxes and expect our effective tax rate to be more favorably impacted by a deduction related to foreign-derived intangible income in 2024. Our future effective tax rate may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by our ongoing assessment of the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, tax planning initiatives, as well as certain discrete items. Net Income (Loss) As a result of the foregoing, we recorded net loss of $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to net income of $6.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Adjusted EBITDA Our Adjusted EBITDA increased $5.8 million to $20.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 from $14.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to higher Ex-TAC Gross Profit and lower recurring operating expenses, as previously described. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to our net income (loss). Non-GAAP Reconciliations Because we are a global company, the comparability of our operating results is affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. We calculate certain constant currency measures and foreign currency impacts by translating the current years reported amounts into comparable amounts using the prior years exchange rates. All constant currency financial information being presented is non-GAAP and should be used as a supplement to our reported operating results. We believe that this information is helpful to our management and investors to assess our operating performance on a comparable basis. However, these measures are not intended to replace amounts presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from similar measures calculated by other companies. We present Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, and Free Cash Flow because they are key profitability measures used by our management and the Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, develop short-term and long-term operational plans, and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. Accordingly, we believe that these measures provide information to investors and the market in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. These non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled to the corresponding U.S. GAAP measures below. These non-GAAP financial measures are subject to significant limitations, including those identified below. In addition, other companies in our industry may define these measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. As a result, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue, gross profit, net loss or net cash provided by (used in) operating activities presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Ex-TAC Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross profit is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure. In calculating Ex-TAC Gross Profit, we add back other cost of revenue to gross profit. Ex-TAC Gross Profit may fluctuate in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to, seasonality and changes in the number of media partners and advertisers, advertiser demand or user engagements. There are limitations on the use of Ex-TAC Gross Profit in that traffic acquisition cost is a significant component of our total cost of revenue but not the only component and, by definition, Ex-TAC Gross Profit presented for any period will be higher than gross profit for that period. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry which have a similar business, may define Ex-TAC Gross Profit differently, which may make comparisons difficult. As a result, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue or gross profit presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 41 The following table presents the reconciliation of Ex-TAC Gross Profit to gross profit, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 (In thousands) Revenue $ 224,177 $ 230,015 $ 655,289 $ 687,589 Traffic acquisition costs (164,483) (173,224) (487,484) (524,024) Other cost of revenue (10,825) (10,401) (31,765) (31,999) Gross profit 48,869 46,390 136,040 131,566 Other cost of revenue 10,825 10,401 31,765 31,999 Ex-TAC Gross Profit $ 59,694 $ 56,791 $ 167,805 $ 163,565 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) before interest expense; interest income and other income, net; provision (benefit) for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation, and other income or expenses that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance, including, but not limited to regulatory matter costs, and severance costs related to our cost saving initiatives. We present Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure because we believe it facilitates operating performance comparisons from period to period. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. However, our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA is not necessarily comparable to non-GAAP information of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 (In thousands) Net income (loss) $ 6,696 $ 508 $ (544) $ 6,185 Gain on convertible debt (8,782) (8,782) (22,594) Interest expense 1,444 1,456 2,950 4,428 Interest income and other income, net (3,536) (358) (7,687) (5,733) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1,229 1,014 (1,110) 3,365 Depreciation and amortization 4,843 4,941 14,494 15,757 Stock-based compensation 4,052 3,046 11,487 9,153 Regulatory matter costs (354) 742 Acquisition-related costs 5,585 8,787 Severance and related costs 742 3,148 Adjusted EBITDA $ 11,531 $ 10,253 $ 20,337 $ 14,451 Net income (loss) as % of gross profit 13.7% 1.1% (0.4)% 4.7% Adjusted EBITDA as % of Ex-TAC Gross Profit 19.3% 18.1% 12.1% 8.8% 42 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is defined as cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities, less capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow is a supplementary measure used by our management and the Board to evaluate our ability to generate cash and we believe it allows for a more complete analysis of our available cash flows. Free cash flow should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 25,898 $ (11,731) Purchases of property and equipment (4,668) (7,870) Capitalized software development costs (7,592) (7,864) Free cash flow $ 13,638 $ (27,465) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We regularly evaluate the cash requirements for our operations, commitments, acquisitions, development activities and capital expenditures and manage our liquidity risk in a manner consistent with our corporate priorities. Our current investment program is focused on achieving maximum returns within our investment policy parameters, while preserving capital and maintaining sufficient liquidity. We believe that our operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. However, there are multiple factors that could impact our future liquidity, including our business performance, our ability to collect payments from our advertisers, having to pay our media partners even if our advertisers default on their payments, or other factors described under Item 1A Risk Factors included in our 2023 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC. In connection with entering into the definitive share purchase agreement to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Teads, as discussed in more detail under Recent Developments - Share Purchase Agreement and Notes 3 and 10 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, we entered into a debt commitment letter, dated August 1, 2024 (the Commitment Letter), with Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Jefferies Finance LLC and Mizuho Bank, LTD (collectively, the Commitment Parties), pursuant to which the Commitment Parties have committed to provide (i) a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the New Revolving Credit Facility) and (ii) a senior secured bridge facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $750 million (the Bridge Facility). The Bridge Facility will be used to fund the cash consideration for the Transaction to pay fees and expenses related thereto. Additionally, a portion of the Revolving Credit Facility may be used to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the Transaction and to pay fees and expenses related thereto, and will otherwise be available, for working capital and general corporate purposes. The obligation of the Commitment Parties to provide the contemplated financings is subject to a number of customary conditions contained in the Commitment Letter, including the execution of definitive debt financing documentation contemplated by the Commitment Letter and the Transaction being consummated substantially contemporaneously with the initial funding of the Bridge Facility. We expect to replace the Bridge Facility with permanent financing, which we currently expect to include the issuance of debt securities or term loans. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are cash receipts from our advertisers, our cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities, and the available capacity under our revolving credit facility discussed below. While our collections in the prior year were negatively impacted by the closure of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), we have historically experienced higher cash collections during our first quarter due to seasonally strong fourth quarter sales, and, as a result, our working capital needs typically decrease during the first quarter. We generally expect these trends to continue in future periods. 43 As of September 30, 2024, our available liquidity was follows: September 30, 2024 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 57,061 Short-term investments 73,467 Revolving Credit Facility (2) 73,935 Total $ 204,463 _____________________________________________ (1) As ofSeptember 30, 2024, approximately $27.2 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the United States by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to continue to reinvest our earnings from foreign operations for the foreseeable future, and do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. (2) Our Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, as amended by the First Amendment thereto, with Silicon Valley Bank, a division of First Citizens Bank & Trust Company, provides, subject to borrowing availability and certain other conditions, for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $75.0 million (the Facility), with a $15.0 million sub-facility for letters of credit. Our borrowing availability under the Facility is calculated by reference to a borrowing base which is determined by specified percentages of eligible accounts receivable, based on the defined borrowing formula. The Facility will terminate on November 2, 2026. The Facility contains representations and warranties, including, without limitation, with respect to collateral; accounts receivable; financials; litigation, indictment and compliance with laws; disclosure and no material adverse effect, each of which is a condition to funding. Additionally, the Facility includes events of default and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries, including, without limitation, restrictions on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, dispositions, restricted payments, and prepayment of the Convertible Notes and of junior indebtedness. The Facility contains a financial covenant that requires, in the event that credit extensions under the Facility equal or exceed 85% of the lesser of the available commitments under the Facility or upon the occurrence of an event of default, our Company to maintain a minimum consolidated monthly fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00. We were in compliance with all of the financial covenants under the Facility as of September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023. See Note 10 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to the Facility. Material Cash Requirements As a general matter, our primary uses of liquidity are payments to our media partners, our operating expenses, capital expenditures, our long-term debt and the related interest payments, and repurchases under our $30 million share repurchase program. We may also use our available cash to make acquisitions, such as our pending acquisition of Teads, or investments in complementary companies or technologies. We primarily use our operating cash for payments due to media partners and vendors, as well as for personnel costs, and other employee-related expenditures. Our contracts with media partners are generally variable based on volume or guarantee a minimum rate of payment if the media partner reaches certain performance targets. See Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Traffic Acquisition Costs. See above under Recent Developments - Share Purchase Agreement and below under Item 1A Risk Factors for information regarding cash requirements in connection with the pending Transaction with Teads. Long-Term Debt At December 31, 2023, we had $118.0 million principal amount of Convertible Notes outstanding, with a maturity on July 27, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed, or repurchased. As discussed above in Recent Developments, on September 19, 2024, we repurchased $118.0 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes out of the initially issued principal balance of $236.0 million, for approximately $109.7 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a discount of approximately 7.5% to the principal amount of the repurchased notes. Following the closing of the repurchase, the repurchased notes were cancelled by the Trustee, and there were no Convertible Notes outstanding as of September 30, 2024. See Note 10 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our Convertible Notes. 44 Other Contractual Cash Obligations As a result of our repurchase of the remaining Convertible Notes in September 2024, our remaining $118 million commitment relating to long-term debt has been extinguished. Accordingly, our interest obligations related to Convertible Notes of approximately $3.5 million per year through 2026 were eliminated. On August 1, 2024, we entered into the Agreement with Altice to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Teads. The Company intends to fund the cash consideration for the Transaction, and pay related fees and expenses, with the net proceeds from permanent financing and cash on hand. See Notes 3 and 10 to the accompanying financial statements for additional information. See Contractual Cash Obligations disclosure within Liquidity and Capital Resources section of our 2023 Form 10-K for detailed disclosures of our other material cash obligations as of December 31, 2023. Share Repurchases On December 14, 2022, our Board approved a new stock repurchase program, authorizing us to repurchase up to $30 million of our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, with no requirement to purchase any minimum number of shares. The manner, timing, and actual number of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. Shares may be repurchased through privately negotiated transactions or open market purchases, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). The repurchase program may be commenced, suspended, or terminated at any time at our discretion without prior notice. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 we repurchased 1,410,001 shares and 2,544,173 shares, respectively, with a fair value of $5.8 million and $12.7 million, respectively, under our share repurchase program. As of September 30, 2024, the remaining availability under our $30 million share repurchase program was $6.6 million. In addition, we periodically withhold shares to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units and exercise of options and warrants in accordance with the terms of our equity incentive plans and the underlying award agreements. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, we withheld 123,903 shares and 128,043 shares, respectively, with a fair value of $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, to satisfy the minimum employee tax withholding obligations. Capital Expenditures Our cash flow from investing activities primarily consists of capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. We spent $4.7 million in capital expenditures during the nine months ended September 30, 2024.We currently anticipate that our capital expenditures will be between $7 million and $9 million in 2024, primarily relating to expenditures for servers and related equipment and other equipment. However, actual amounts may vary from these estimates. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the major components of our net cash flows for the periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 25,898 $ (11,731) Net cash provided by investing activities 75,569 83,710 Net cash used in financing activities (116,894) (111,445) Effect of exchange rate changes 2,034 (1,568) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (13,393) $ (41,034) Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities increased $37.6 million, to net cash provided by operating activities of $25.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $11.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily driven by a $33.2 million favorable change in our working capital, largely attributable to lower accounts receivable and prepaid expenses due to faster cash collections and timing of payments. In addition, net income after non-cash adjustments increased $4.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same prior year period. 45 Our free cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was $13.6 million, as compared to use of cash of $27.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily reflecting higher operating cash flow, as discussed above, as well as lower capital expenditures. Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and a reconciliation to net cash provided by operating activities. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities decreased $8.1 million to $75.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from $83.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was primarily driven by lower net proceeds of $11.7 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities under our investment program (net of purchases), reflecting lower early redemptions of available-for-sale securities in connection with the repurchase of our Convertible Notes in September 2024, than in the prior year period. This decrease was partially offset by lower capital expenditures of $3.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased $5.5 million to $116.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024, from $111.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This unfavorable change was primarily attributable to the $13.6 million increase in the repurchase price for the Convertible Notes repurchased in September 2024 than those repurchased in April 2023, partially offset by lower treasury share repurchases of $6.9 million and lower principal payments of $1.2 million due to finance lease expirations during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the prior year period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our 2023 Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for recently issued accounting standards, which may have an impact on our financial statements upon adoption. JOBS Act Transition Period We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, delaying the adoption of some accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that have adopted new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not have any interest in entities referred to as variable interest entities, which includes special purpose entities and other structured finance entities. 46