Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report) and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 15, 2023 (2022 Form 10-K). In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, beliefs, and expectations, and involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Report as such factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent filings with the SEC, as well as those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, including under the caption Note About Forward-Looking Statements. The purpose of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is to provide the readers of our financial statements with narrative information from our management, which is necessary to understand our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), we use certain non-GAAP financial measures throughout this discussion to provide investors with supplemental metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision making. These measures are supplemental and are not an alternative to our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Business Overview Outbrain Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, Outbrain, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated in August 2006 in Delaware. The Company is headquartered in New York, New York with various wholly-owned subsidiaries, including in Israel, Europe and Asia. Outbrain is a leading recommendation platform for advertisers and digital media owners, reaching over a billion unique users around the world. Outbrains technology provides personalization, engagement and monetization solutions to thousands of digital media properties, including many of the worlds most prestigious publishers. For tens of thousands of advertisers around the world, Outbrain helps attract new customers and grow their businesses, driving measurable results and return on investment. Over the past decade, consumers have become increasingly accustomed to seeing highly curated digital content and ads that align with their unique interests. Similar to the way in which social media and search have simplified discovery by synthesizing billions of consumer data points to offer personalized experiences, we provide digital media owners with a platform that encompasses data at scale as well as prediction and recommendation capabilities, helping them deliver both editorial content and paid advertising personalized to their users, based on context and each users interests and preferences. Our platform is built for user engagement and, as a mobile-first company, is designed to be highly effective on mobile devices. Outbrains technology is deployed on the mobile apps and websites of most of our media partners, generating 72% of our revenue in 2022. Outbrain operates a two-sided marketplace, which means we usually have exclusive control over all aspects of the user experience, allowing us to quickly test and deploy new formats for our advertisers and media owners. Since inception, we have been guided by the same core principles pertaining to our three constituents: users, media partners, and advertisers. Users. We believe that by focusing on improving the user experience and ad format innovation, we are able to cultivate user behavior patterns that compound engagement over time, delivering superior long-term monetization for ourselves and for our media partners, as well as better return on ad spend for our advertisers. Media Partners. We are committed to the long-term success of our media partners. Consistent with this philosophy, we focus on establishing a true win-win partnership. We strive to develop trusted, transparent, multi-year contracts with media partners, which are typically exclusive with us. Our media partners include both traditional publishers and companies in new and rapidly evolving categories, such as mobile device manufacturers and web browsers. Advertisers. We offer a unique advertising solution across the entire purchase funnel, serving tens of thousands of brands - from small businesses to large, Fortune 500 enterprise brands and the agencies that support them. Outbrains value proposition to advertisers is to deliver measurable engagement that drives business outcomes - not limited to impressions, views, and reach. 24 Through our direct, usually exclusive code on page integrations with media partners, we have become one of the largest online advertising platforms on the open web. In 2022, we provided personalized ads to over a billion monthly unique users, delivering on average nearly 12 billion recommendations to content, services, and products per day, with over 30,000 advertisers directly using our platform. The following is a summary of our performance for the periods presented: Our revenue was $231.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $254.2 million in three months ended March 31, 2022. Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $5.8 million, and decreased $16.6 million, or 6.5% on a constant currency basis. Our gross profit was $41.2 million and our gross margin was 17.8% in for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to gross profit of $53.9 million and gross margin of 21.2% for the comparable period in 2022. Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit (1) was $52.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $63.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our net loss was $5.6 million, or (13.6)% of gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to net loss of $1.9 million, or (3.5)% of gross profit for the comparable period in 2022. Our Adjusted EBITDA(1) was $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA(1) was 1.3% and 18.3% of Ex-TAC Gross Profit(1) in three months ended March 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. ______________________ (1)Ex-TAC Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the comparable GAAP financial measures. Recent Developments Partial Repurchase of Convertible Senior Notes On April 14, 2023, we repurchased $118.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.95% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (Convertible Notes) out of the initially issued principal balance of $236.0 million via a privately negotiated repurchase agreement with Baupost Group Securities, L.L.C., the sole holder of the Convertible Notes, for approximately $96.2 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a discount of approximately 19% to the principal amount of the repurchased notes. As a result, we will record a pre-tax gain of approximately $22.6 million in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the second quarter of 2023. In addition, we redeemed $80.3 million of our available-for-sale marketable securities to finance this transaction and realized a loss of $0.6 million, which will be recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the second quarter of 2023. Following the closing of the repurchase, the repurchased notes were cancelled by the Trustee, and $118.0 million principal amount of the Convertible Notes out of the initially issued principal balance of $236.0 million, remain outstanding and continue to be subject to the terms of the indenture dated as of July 27, 2021, pursuant to which they were issued. Impacts of SVB Closure On March 10, 2023, we learned that Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) was closed by the California regulators and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was appointed as receiver. On March 12, 2023, the Department of the Treasury, Federal Reserve and FDIC approved actions enabling the FDIC to complete its resolution of SVB in a manner that fully protects all depositors and converted SVB to Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A. As a result, we regained full access to the funds held by SVB. On March 27, 2023, First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company (First Citizens Bank) entered into an agreement with FDIC to acquire Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A., assuming all customer deposits and certain other liabilities of Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A. While we have established an alternate operating account to which our customers can remit payments, our preexisting SVB accounts, now with First Citizens Bank, remain fully operational. In addition, our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility and our existing foreign currency forward contracts have remained in effect. As a result of the closure of SVB, our cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2023 was negatively impacted by the delays in timing of collecting payments from our customers through our operating accounts maintained at SVB. Although we have resumed normal course collections, our second quarter may be impacted as we resolve the March 2023 delays. While this event has and will impact the timing of our cash collections during the first half of 2023, we expect it to have limited to no impact for the full year. 25 Macroeconomic Environment General worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced significant instability, as well as volatility and disruption in the financial markets, resulting from factors such as the effects of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the COVID-19 pandemic, and general economic uncertainty. The current macroeconomic environment, with variables such as inflation, increased interest rates, bank disruptions, recessionary concerns, currency exchange rate fluctuations, global supply chain disruptions, and labor market volatility, has negatively impacted our advertisers. Accordingly, these conditions have adversely impacted our business and could, if they continue or worsen, adversely impact us in the future, including if our advertisers were to reduce or further reduce their advertising spending as a result of any of these factors. We continue to monitor our operations, and the operations of those in our ecosystem (including media partners, advertisers, and agencies). These conditions make it difficult for us, our media partners, advertisers, and agencies to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause a further reduction or delay in overall advertising demand and spending, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Factors Affecting Our Business Retention and Growth of Relationships with Media Partners We rely on relationships with our media partners for a significant portion of our advertising inventory and for our ability to increase revenue through expanding their use of our platform. To further strengthen these relationships, we continuously invest in our technology and product functionality to drive user engagement and monetization by (i) improving our algorithms; (ii) effectively managing our supply and demand; and (iii) expanding the adoption of our enhanced products by media partners. Our relationships with media partners are typically long-term, exclusive, and strategic in nature. Our top 20 media partners, based on our 2022 revenue, have been using our platform for an average of over seven years, despite their typical contract length being two to four years. Net revenue retention is an important indicator of media partner satisfaction, the value of our platform, as well as our ability to grow revenue from existing relationships. We calculate media partner net revenue retention at the end of each quarter by starting with revenue generated on media partners properties during the same period in the prior year, Prior Period Retention Revenue. We then calculate the revenue generated on these same media partners properties in the current period, Current Period Retention Revenue. Current Period Retention Revenue reflects any expansions within the media partner relationships, such as any additional placements or properties on which we extend our recommendations, as well as contraction or attrition. Our media partner net revenue retention in a quarter equals the Current Period Retention Revenue divided by the Prior Period Retention Revenue. To calculate media partner net revenue retention for year-to-date and annual periods, we sum the quarterly Current Period Retention Revenue and divide it by the sum of the quarterly Prior Period Retention Revenue. These amounts exclude certain revenue adjustments and revenue recognized on a net basis. Our media partner net revenue retention was 80% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our growth also depends on our ability to secure partnerships with new media partners. New media partners are defined as those relationships in which revenue was not generated in the prior period, except for limited instances where residual revenue was generated on a media partners properties. In such instances, the residual revenue would be excluded from net revenue retention above. Revenue generated on new media partners properties contributed approximately 11% to revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2023. User Engagement with Relevant Media and Advertising Content We believe that engagement is a key pillar of the overall value that our platform provides to users, media partners and advertisers. Our algorithms enable effective engagement of users by facilitating the discovery of content, products, and services that they find most interesting, as well as connecting them to personalized ads that are relevant to them. We believe that the user experience has a profound impact on long-term user behavior patterns and thus compounds over time improving our long-term monetization prospects. This principle guides our behavior, and, as a result, we do not focus on the price of ads, nor on maximizing such prices, as may be the case with some of our competitors. Given this view, we do not focus on cost-per-click or cost-per-impression as key performance indicators for the business. Consequently, we have a differentiated approach to monetization as we optimize our algorithms for the overall user experience rather than just for the price of each individual user engagement. 26 Growth in user engagement is driven by several factors, including enhancements to our recommendation engine, growth in the breadth and depth of our data assets, the increase in size and quality of our content and advertising index, user engagement, expansion on existing media partner properties where our recommendations can be served and the adoption of our platform by new media partners. As we grow user engagement, we are able to collect more data, enabling us to further enhance our algorithms, which in turn helps us make smarter recommendations and further grow user engagement, providing our platform and our business with a powerful growth flywheel. We measure the impact of this growth flywheel on our business by reviewing the growth of Click Through Rate (CTR) for ads on our platform. CTR improvements increase the number of clicks on our platform. We believe that we have a significant opportunity to further grow user engagement, and thus our business, as today CTR for ads on our platform is less than 1% of recommendations served. Advertiser Retention and Growth We focus on serving ads that are most likely to deliver engagement, rather than on the price of the ads, which we believe leads to better return on ad spend (ROAS) for advertisers. Our growth is partially driven by retaining and expanding the amount of spend by advertisers on our platform, as well as by acquiring new advertisers. Improving our platform with functionality and features that increase engagement and ROAS increases the attractiveness of our platform to existing and new advertisers, while also growing our share of their advertising budgets. We continuously invest in enhancing our technological capabilities to deliver better ROAS and transparency on ad spend, and market these attributes to grow our advertiser base and share of wallet. Prices paid by advertisers on our platform fluctuate period to period for a variety of reasons, including supply and demand, competition, macroeconomic conditions, and seasonality. Movements in average prices do not necessarily correlate to our revenue or Ex-TAC Gross Profit trends. In order to grow our revenue and Ex-TAC Gross Profit and maximize value for our advertisers and media partners, our focus as a business is on driving user engagement and ROAS for advertisers, not on optimizing for price. For the year ended December 31, 2022, over 30,000 unique advertisers were active on our platform. In addition, we continue to grow our programmatic partnerships, enabling us to grow our advertiser base efficiently. Expansion Into New Environments, New Content Experiences and New Ad Formats The accelerating pace of technological innovation and adoption, combined with continuously evolving user behavior and content consumption habits, presents multiple opportunities for growth. The emergence of new devices, platforms and environments in which users spend time consuming content is one area of expansion for us. Similarly, the formats in which content can or will be consumed continue to evolve, as do user-friendly and impactful ad formats that can be delivered in or alongside that content. Fundamentally, we plan to continue making our platform available for media partners on all types of devices and platforms, and all formats of media that carry their content. Examples of new environments in which content consumption is expected to grow include connected TVs (CTV), screens for autonomous vehicles and public transport, pre-installed applications on new smartphones, smartphone native content feeds, push notifications and email newsletters. We are developing solutions that allow media partners, service providers and manufacturers to provide better curated, personalized and more engaging content feeds and recommendations in these environments. Through our acquisition of vi in the first quarter of 2022, we expanded our video product offerings to new formats and environments, including pre-roll high-impact video formats, delivering a better user experience and more value to our advertisers. We plan to continue to evaluate strategic acquisition or investment opportunities as part of our growth strategy in the future. The development and deployment of new ad formats allow us to better serve users, media partners and, ultimately, advertisers who seek to target and engage users at scale; this continues to open and grow new types of advertiser demand, while ensuring relevance as the environments in which we operate diversify. Investment in Our Technology and Infrastructure Innovation is a core tenet of our Company and our industry. We plan to continue our investments in our people and our technology in order to retain and enhance our competitive position. For example, improvements to our algorithms help us deliver more relevant ads, driving higher user engagement, thereby improving ROAS for advertisers and increasing monetization for our media partners. Our Smartlogic product dynamically adjusts both the arrangement and the formats of content delivered to a user, depending on the users preferences and our media partners key performance indicators (KPIs), designed to provide a more personalized and engaging feed experience. We continue to invest in media partner and advertiser focused tools, technology, and products as well as privacy-centric solutions, with the launch of Keystone by Outbrain, which enables a more holistic management of overall revenue for media owners increasingly focused on revenue diversification. 27 We believe that our proprietary micro-services, API-based cloud infrastructure provides us with a strategic competitive advantage, as we are able to deploy code an average of 300 times per day and grow in a scalable and highly cost-effective manner. As we develop and deploy solutions for enhanced integration of our technologies in new environments, with new content and ad formats, we anticipate activity through our platform to grow. We anticipate that the investment in our technology, infrastructure and solutions will contribute to our long-term growth. Industry Dynamics Our business depends on the overall demand for digital advertising, on the continuous success of our current and prospective media partners, and on general market conditions. Digital advertising is a rapidly evolving and growing industry, with growth that has outpaced the growth of the broader advertising industry. Content consumption continues to shift online, requiring media owners to adapt in order to successfully attract, engage and monetize their users. Given the large and growing volume of content being generated online, content curation tools are increasingly becoming a necessity for users and media owners alike. Advertisers increasingly rely on digital advertising platforms that deliver highly targeted ads and measurable performance. Regulators across most developed markets are increasingly focused on enacting and enforcing user privacy rules as well as tighter oversight of the major walled garden platforms. Industry participants have recently been, and likely will continue to be, impacted by changes implemented by platform leaders, such as Apples change to its Identifier for Advertisers policy and Googles evolving roadmap pertaining to the use of cookies within its Chrome web browser. See Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2022 Form 10-K for additional information regarding changing industry dynamics with respect to industry participants and the regulatory environment. Given our focus on innovation, the depth and length of our media partner relationships and our scale, we believe that we are well positioned in the long-term to address and potentially benefit from many of these industry dynamics. Additionally, we believe that our strength in delivering engagement and clear outcomes for advertisers aligns well with the ongoing market shift towards increased accountability and expectations of ROAS from digital advertising spend generally. Seasonality The global advertising industry experiences seasonal trends that affect most participants in the digital advertising ecosystem. Our revenue generally fluctuates from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonality, as many advertisers allocate the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with increased holiday purchasing, as well as the timing of advertising budget cycles. Historically, the fourth quarter of the year has reflected the highest levels of advertiser spending, and the first quarter generally has reflected the lowest level of advertiser spending. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and discretionary in nature, reflecting changes in brand advertising strategy, budgeting constraints, and buying patterns and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. The quarterly rate of increase in our traffic acquisition costs is generally commensurate with the quarterly rate of increase in our revenue. However, traffic acquisition costs have, at times, grown at a faster or slower rate than revenue, primarily due to the mix of the revenue generated or contracted terms with media partners. We generally expect these seasonal trends to continue, though historical seasonality may not be predictive of future results given the potential for changes in advertising buying patterns and macroeconomic conditions. These trends will affect our operating results and we expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Revenue We generate revenue from advertisers through ads that we deliver across a variety of media partner properties. We charge advertisers for clicks on and, to a lesser extent, impressions of their ads, depending on how they choose to contract with us. We recognize revenue in the period in which the click or impression occurs. The amount of revenue that we generate depends on the level of demand from advertisers to promote their content to users across our media partners properties. We generate higher revenue at times of high demand, which is also impacted by seasonal factors. For any given marketing campaign, the advertiser has the ability to adjust its price in real time and set a maximum daily spend. This allows advertisers to adjust the estimated ad spend attributable to the particular campaign. Due to the measurable performance that our advertisers achieve with us, a portion of our advertisers spend with us on an unlimited basis, as long as their ROAS objectives are met. Our agreements with advertisers provide them with considerable flexibility to modify their overall budget, price (cost-per-click or cost-per-impression), and the ads they wish to deliver on our platform. 28 Traffic Acquisition Costs We define traffic acquisition costs (TAC) as amounts owed to media partners for their share of the revenue we generated on their properties. We incur traffic acquisition costs in the period in which the revenue is recognized. Traffic acquisition costs are based on the media partners revenue share or, in some circumstances, based on a guaranteed minimum rate of payment from us in exchange for guaranteed placement of our ads on specified portions of the media partners digital properties. These guaranteed rates are typically provided per thousand qualified page views, whereas our minimum monthly payment to the media partner may fluctuate based on how many qualified page views the media partner generates, subject to a maximum guarantee. As such, traffic acquisition costs may not correlate with fluctuations in revenue, and our rates may remain fixed even with a decrease in revenue. Traffic acquisition costs also include amounts payable to programmatic supply partners. Other Cost of Revenue Other cost of revenue consists of costs related to the management of our data centers, hosting fees, data connectivity costs and depreciation and amortization. Other cost of revenue also includes the amortization of capitalized software that is developed or obtained for internal use associated with our revenue-generating technologies. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs. Personnel costs consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Research and Development. Research and development expenses are related to the development and enhancement of our platform and consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, amortization of capitalized software for non-revenue generating infrastructure and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs for personnel engaged in marketing, advertising, client services, and promotional activities. These expenses also include advertising and promotional spend on media, conferences, and other events to market our services, and facilities costs. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and the related overhead costs, professional fees, facilities costs, insurance, and certain taxes other than income taxes. General and administrative personnel costs include, among others, our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal functions. Our professional service fees consist primarily of accounting, audit, tax, legal, information technology and other consulting costs, including our implementation of and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of interest income, interest expense and other income (expense), net. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest expense on the Convertible Notes, our revolving credit facility and capital leases. Interest expense may increase if we incur any borrowings under our revolving credit facility or if we enter into new debt facilities or capital leasing arrangements. Interest Income and Other (Expense) Income, net. Interest income and other (expense) income, net primarily consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities, discount amortization on our investments in marketable securities, and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, both realized and unrealized, relate to transactions and monetary asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, including mark-to-market adjustments on undesignated foreign exchange forward contracts. Foreign currency gains and losses may continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Benefit from Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes consists of federal and state income taxes in the United States (U.S.) and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as deferred income taxes and changes in valuation allowance, reflecting the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Realization of our deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income. In considering the need for a valuation allowance, we consider our historical and future projected taxable income, as well as other objectively verifiable evidence, including our realization of tax attributes, assessment of tax credits and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. 29 Results of Operations We have one operating segment, which is also our reportable segment. The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (In thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue $ 231,774 $ 254,216 Cost of revenue: Traffic acquisition costs 179,576 190,696 Other cost of revenue 11,043 9,589 Total cost of revenue 190,619 200,285 Gross profit 41,155 53,931 Operating expenses: Research and development 9,311 10,428 Sales and marketing 25,748 27,395 General and administrative 15,406 16,034 Total operating expenses 50,465 53,857 (Loss) income from operations (9,310) 74 Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (1,867) (1,871) Interest income and other (expense) income, net 3,860 (1,081) Total other income (expense), net 1,993 (2,952) Loss before benefit from income taxes (7,317) (2,878) Benefit from income taxes (1,712) (988) Net loss $ (5,605) $ (1,890) Other Financial Data: Research and development as % of revenue 4.0 % 4.1% Sales and marketing as % of revenue 11.1 % 10.8% General and administrative as % of revenue 6.6 % 6.3% Ex-TAC Gross Profit $ 52,198 $ 63,520 Adjusted EBITDA $ 695 $ 11,608 ______________________ (1)Ex-TAC Gross Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations in this Report for the definitions and limitations of these measures, and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenue Revenue decreased $22.4 million, or 8.8%, to $231.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $254.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $5.8 million, and decreased $16.6 million, or 6.5%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. Our reported revenue decreased approximately $51.6 million due to net revenue retention of 80% on existing media partners, as we have experienced lower yields mainly due to weaker demand on our platform, reflecting the current macroeconomic conditions and the related impact on advertising spend, as well as due to unfavorable foreign currency effects. This decrease was partially offset by growth of approximately 11%, or $28.5 million, from new media partners. 30 See "Non-GAAP Reconciliations" for information regarding the constant currency measures provided in this discussion and below to supplement our reported results. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Traffic acquisition costs decreased $11.1 million, or 5.8%, to $179.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $190.7 million in the prior year period. Traffic acquisition costs included net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $5.4 million, and decreased $5.7 million, or 3.0%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs was lower than the decrease in our revenue due to an unfavorable revenue mix and lower performance from certain deals. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs increased to 77.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from 75.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Other cost of revenue increased $1.4 million, or 15.2%, to $11.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $9.6 million in the prior year period, primarily due to higher hosting fees due to continued platform improvements, including increased data processing capacity, increased internal use software amortization expense and higher network security related costs, offset in part by lower depreciation expense on server equipment. As a percentage of revenue, other cost of revenue increased 100 basis points to 4.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 3.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Gross profit decreased $12.7 million, or 23.7%, to $41.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which was attributable to the decrease in revenue exceeding the decrease in the cost of revenue, as previously described. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $0.4 million, and decreased $12.3 million, or 23.0%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Our Ex-TAC Gross Profit decreased $11.3 million, or 17.8%, to $52.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $63.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Ex-TAC Gross Profit for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $0.4 million, and decreased $10.9 million, or 17.2%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. The decrease in Ex-TAC Gross Profit was primarily driven by lower revenue, as well as unfavorable revenue mix and lower performance from certain deals. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and reconciliations to our gross profit. Operating Expenses Operating expenses decreased $3.4 million, or 6.3%, to $50.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, from $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $3.2 million, and decreased $0.2 million, or 0.3%, on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. The reported decrease in operating expenses was primarily attributable to lower personnel-related costs of $3.7 million, mainly driven by lower headcount due to our cost reduction initiatives, and lower professional costs of $1.9 million, largely attributable to a $1.1 million decrease in regulatory matter costs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses of $2.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, due to a net benefit in the prior period and the impact of unfavorable timing of collections, which we expect to largely reverse in subsequent quarters. The components of operating expenses are discussed below: Research and development expenses decreased $1.1 million, primarily due to lower personnel-related costs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.7 million, primarily due to lower personnel-related costs of $2.2 million and lower marketing costs, partially offset by $0.8 million of severance and related costs recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2023. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.6 million, primarily driven by lower professional fees of $1.8 million (including a year-over-year decrease in regulatory matter costs of $1.1 million), lower personnel related costs of $0.9 million, and a decrease in other corporate expenses of $0.8 million. These decreases were partially offset an increase in the provision for credit losses of $2.9 million, as discussed above. 31 Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 60 basis points to 21.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 21.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, reflecting a lower rate of decrease in total operating expenses than in revenues. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net, increased $5.0 million to income of $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to an expense of $3.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to $2.4 million of income recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2023 in connection with our investment program initiated in July 2022. In addition, net foreign currency gains increased $2.2 million, relating to transactions denominated in currencies other than functional currencies. Benefit from Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to a greater pre-tax loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our effective tax rate declined to 23.4% in the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to 34.3% in three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily attributable to a deduction related to foreign-derived intangible income during the three months ended March 31, 2023. A provision enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Cuts & Jobs Act requires companies to capitalize certain research and experimental expenditures for tax purposes in tax years beginning after December 31, 2021. As a result, we expect to utilize a substantial portion of our federal net operating loss carryforwards in 2023, which will result in higher cash taxes and a lower effective tax rate due to a deduction related to foreign-derived intangible income. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which among other things implements a 15% minimum tax on adjusted financial statement income of certain large corporations and a 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases. Based on our current level of income and share repurchase program, this legislation is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our future effective tax rate may be affected by the geographic mix of earnings in countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may be affected by our ongoing assessment of the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, tax planning initiatives, as well as certain discrete items. Net Loss As a result of the foregoing, we recorded net loss of $5.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to net loss of $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA Our Adjusted EBITDA decreased $10.9 million to $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, due to lower Ex-TAC Gross Profit and higher other costs of revenue, partially offset by lower operating expenses, as previously described. Our Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included net favorable foreign currency effects of approximately $2.6 million. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to our net income. 32 Non-GAAP Reconciliations Because we are a global company, the comparability of our operating results is affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. We calculate certain constant currency measures and foreign currency impacts by translating the current years reported amounts into comparable amounts using the prior years exchange rates. All constant currency financial information being presented is non-GAAP and should be used as a supplement to our reported operating results. We believe that this information is helpful to our management and investors to assess our operating performance on a comparable basis. However, these measures are not intended to replace amounts presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from similar measures calculated by other companies. We present Ex-TAC Gross Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Ex-TAC Gross Profit, and Free Cash Flow because they are key profitability measures used by our management and the Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, develop short-term and long-term operational plans, and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. Accordingly, we believe that these measures provide information to investors and the market in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. These non-GAAP financial measures are defined and reconciled to the corresponding U.S. GAAP measures below. These non-GAAP financial measures are subject to significant limitations, including those identified below. In addition, other companies in our industry may define these measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. As a result, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue, gross profit, net income (loss) or net cash provided by (used in) operating activities presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Ex-TAC Gross Profit Ex-TAC Gross Profit is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross profit is the most comparable GAAP measure. In calculating Ex-TAC Gross Profit, we add back other cost of revenue to gross profit. Ex-TAC Gross Profit may fluctuate in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to, seasonality and changes in the number of media partners and advertisers, advertiser demand or user engagements. There are limitations on the use of Ex-TAC Gross Profit in that traffic acquisition cost is a significant component of our total cost of revenue but not the only component and, by definition, Ex-TAC Gross Profit presented for any period will be higher than gross profit for that period. A potential limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure is that other companies, including companies in our industry which have a similar business, may define Ex-TAC Gross Profit differently, which may make comparisons difficult. As a result, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue or gross profit presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of Ex-TAC Gross Profit to gross profit, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (In thousands) Revenue $ 231,774 $ 254,216 Traffic acquisition costs (179,576) (190,696) Other cost of revenue (11,043) (9,589) Gross profit 41,155 53,931 Other cost of revenue 11,043 9,589 Ex-TAC Gross Profit $ 52,198 $ 63,520 Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income before interest expense; interest income and other (expense) income, net; provision (benefit) for income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation, and other income or expenses that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance, including, but not limited to merger and acquisition costs, certain public company implementation related costs, regulatory matter costs, and severance costs related to our cost saving initiatives. We present Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure because we believe it facilitates operating performance comparisons from period to period. 33 We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and the Board. However, our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA is not necessarily comparable to non-GAAP information of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (In thousands) Net loss $ (5,605) $ (1,890) Interest expense 1,867 1,871 Interest income and other (expense) income, net (3,860) 1,081 Benefit for income taxes (1,712) (988) Depreciation and amortization 5,941 6,268 Stock-based compensation 2,611 2,733 Regulatory matter costs 610 1,719 Merger and acquisition costs, public company implementation costs (1) 814 Severance costs 843 Adjusted EBITDA $ 695 $ 11,608 Net Loss as % of Gross Profit (13.6) % (3.5) % Adjusted EBITDA as % of Ex-TAC Gross Profit 1.3 % 18.3 % _________________________ (1)Primarily includes costs related to our acquisition of vi in January 2022 and public company implementation costs. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is defined as cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities, less capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow is a supplementary measure used by our management and the Board to evaluate our ability to generate cash and we believe it allows for a more complete analysis of our available cash flows. Free cash flow should be considered as a supplemental measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measures of our financial performance that are calculated and reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash used in operating activities. Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (20,478) $ (2,641) Purchases of property and equipment (3,749) (2,809) Capitalized software development costs (2,853) (3,445) Free cash flow $ (27,080) $ (8,895) 34 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We regularly evaluate the cash requirements for our operations, commitments, development activities and capital expenditures and manage our liquidity risk in a manner consistent with our corporate priorities. Our current investment program is focused on achieving maximum returns within our investment policy parameters, while preserving capital and maintaining sufficient liquidity. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses, capital expenditures, interest payments on our long-term debt, and planned share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. However, there are multiple factors that could impact our future liquidity, including our business performance, our ability to collect payments from our advertisers, having to pay our media partners even if our advertisers default on their payments, or other factors described under Item 1A Risk Factors included in this Report. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities, the available capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash receipts from our advertisers. While our collections during the three months ended March 31, 2023 have been negatively impacted by the closure of SVB, as discussed in the Recent Developments section above, we have historically experienced higher cash collections during our first quarter due to seasonally strong fourth quarter sales, and, as a result, our working capital needs typically decrease during the first quarter. We generally expect these trends to continue in future periods. As of March 31, 2023, our available liquidity was follows: March 31, 2023 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 73,214 Short-term investments 178,529 Long-term investments 65,951 Revolving Credit Facility (2) 64,784 Total $ 382,478 _____________________________________________ (1) As ofMarch 31, 2023, approximately $31.0 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the United States by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to continue to reinvest our earnings from foreign operations for the foreseeable future, and do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. (2) As discussed above in Recent Developments, we had a revolving credit facility (2021 Revolving Credit Facility) with SVB, which has been closed by the regulators. On March 27, 2023, First Citizens Bank entered into an agreement with FDIC to acquire Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A., assuming all customer deposits and certain other liabilities of Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A. As a result, our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility remained in effect with First Citizens Bank. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility provides, subject to borrowing availability and certain other conditions, for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $75.0 million (the Facility), with a $15.0 million sub-facility for letters of credit. Our borrowing availability under the Facility is calculated by reference to a borrowing base which is determined by specified percentages of eligible accounts receivable, based on the defined borrowing formula. The Facility will terminate on the earlier of (i) November 2, 2026 or (ii) 120 days prior to the maturity date of the Convertible Senior Notes, unless the Convertible Notes have been converted to our common equity securities. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility contains representations and warranties, including, without limitation, with respect to collateral; accounts receivable; financials; litigation, indictment and compliance with laws; disclosure and no material adverse effect, each of which is a condition to funding. Additionally, the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility includes events of default and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries, including, without limitation, restrictions on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, dispositions, restricted payments, and prepayment of the Convertible Notes and of junior indebtedness. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility contains a financial covenant that requires, in the event that credit extensions under the Facility equal or exceed 85% of the lesser of the available commitments under the Facility or upon the occurrence of an event of defaults, our Company to maintain a minimum consolidated monthly fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00. We were in compliance with all of the financial covenants under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. See Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for information relating to our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. 35 Material Cash Requirements Our primary uses of liquidity are payments to our publishers, our operating expenses, capital expenditures, our long-term debt and the related interest payments, and repurchases under our $30 million share repurchase program. We may also use our available cash to make acquisitions or investments in complementary companies or technologies. We primarily use our operating cash for payments due to media partners and vendors, as well as for personnel costs, and other employee-related expenditures. Our contracts with media partners are generally variable based on volume or guarantee a minimum rate of payment if the media partner reaches certain performance targets. See Definitions of Financial and Performance Measures Traffic Acquisition Costs. Long-term debt As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had $236.0 million principal amount of Convertible Notes, which mature on July 27, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed, or repurchased. Interest on the Convertible Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 27 and July 27 of each year, at a rate of 2.95% per year. As discussed above in Recent Developments, on April 14, 2023, we repurchased $118.0 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes out of the initially issued principal balance of $236.0 million, for approximately $96.2 million in cash, including accrued interest, representing a 19% discount to par value. The remaining $118 million principal amount of the Convertible Notes remains outstanding and continues to be subject to the terms of the indenture dated as of July 27, 2021 pursuant to which they were issued. See Notes 9 and 15 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our Convertible Notes. Other Contractual Cash Obligations As a result of the partial repurchase of our Convertible Notes in April 2023, our remaining commitment relating to long-term debt has been reduced to $118 million, representing the remaining principal amount of the Convertible Notes due in 2026. Subsequent to the repurchase, our related interest obligations have been reduced to approximately $3.5 million per year through 2026. See Contractual Cash Obligations disclosure within Liquidity and Capital Resources section of our 2022 Form 10-K for detailed disclosures of our other material cash obligations as of December 31, 2022. Share Repurchases On December 14, 2022, our Board approved a new stock repurchase program, authorizing us to repurchase up to $30 million of our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, with no requirement to purchase any minimum number of shares. The manner, timing, and actual number of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. Shares may be repurchased through privately negotiated transactions or open market purchases, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The repurchase program may be commenced, suspended, or terminated at any time at our discretion without prior notice. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we repurchased 1,313,073 shares with a fair value of $6.1 million, including commissions, under our share repurchase program. As of March 31, 2023, the remaining availability under our $30 million share repurchase program was $23.9 million. In addition, we periodically withhold shares to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units and exercise of options and warrants in accordance with the terms of our equity incentive plans and the underlying award agreements. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we withheld 48,202 shares and 117,637 shares, respectively, with a fair value of $0.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively, to satisfy the minimum employee tax withholding obligations. Capital Expenditures Our cash flow used in investing activities primarily consists of capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. We spent $3.7 million in capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2023, and currently anticipate that our capital expenditures for 2023 will be between $11 million and $14 million, primarily relating to expenditures for servers and related equipment, leasehold improvements, and other equipment. However, actual amounts may vary from these estimates. 36 Cash Flows The following table summarizes the major components of our net cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (20,478) $ (2,641) Net cash used in investing activities (4,039) (40,764) Net cash used in financing activities (7,411) (458) Effect of exchange rate changes (436) (663) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (32,364) $ (44,526) Operating Activities Net cash related to operating activities decreased $17.9 million, to cash used in operating activities of $20.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Net cash related to our working capital declined $13.1 million, primarily due to the unfavorable change in accounts receivable, which was largely attributable to the delays in collections of customer payments as we transitioned to alternative bank accounts due to the sudden closure of SVB in March 2023. In addition, net income after non-cash adjustments declined $4.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the same prior year period. Our free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was use of cash of $27.1 million, as compared to use of cash of $8.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, reflecting lower operating cash flow in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations for the related definition and a reconciliation to net cash provided by operating activities. Investing Activities Net cash related to investing activities increased $36.8 million, to cash used in investing activities of $4.0 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 from cash used in investing activities $40.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022. This increase was primarily due to the higher use of cash of $34.2 million in prior year for consideration paid, net of cash acquired for our acquisition of vi, and net proceeds of $2.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 from maturities of marketable securities under our investment program initiated in July 2022 (net of purchases). Financing Activities Net cash related to financing activities decreased $6.9 million to cash used in financing activities of $7.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, from cash used in financing activities of $0.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022. This decrease in cash was primarily attributable to higher treasury share repurchases of $4.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022, reflecting $6.1 million of repurchases under our $30 million share repurchase program initiated in December 2022, offset in part by a $1.5 million reduction in shares withheld to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations on vested stock-based compensation awards. The decrease in cash from financing activities was also attributable to a $2.3 million decline in proceeds from exercises of stock options and warrants. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our 2022 Form 10-K. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for recently issued accounting standards, which may have an impact on our financial statements upon adoption. JOBS Act Transition Period We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, delaying the adoption of some accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that have adopted new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not have any interest in entities referred to as variable interest entities, which includes special purpose entities and other structured finance entities. 38