Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in the other documents we file with the SEC. Please refer to "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 44 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Background Informa TechTarget, together with its subsidiaries, is a leading B2B growth accelerator, informing and influencing technology buyers and sellers globally. Following a period of expansion, the specialist technology research business of Informa TechTarget is now among the largest providers of these services. Informa TechTarget employs expert analysts to create data-driven intelligence products and advisory services for product managers, corporate strategists and the C-suite, challenging market strategies, sharpening product roadmaps and accelerating time to market and revenue. Omdia, Industry Dive, NetLine, Canalys and Wards and Former TechTarget are important components of Informa TechTarget. These products or businesses and their portfolio of digital media brands inform, educate and influence tech buyers, creating engaged, specialist audiences and deliver first party data records. As of September 30, 2025, our business had more than 56.4 million registered members and users of our own media brands. Targeted access to these specialist audiences is provided through a growing range of data-driven digital products and services that are designed to deliver highly qualified leads, demand generation and buyer intent to technology vendors, connecting them with the right buyers at the right time to maximize return on investment and accelerate growth. Selected Informa TechTarget brands Specialist B2B Content: Intelligence & Advisory Brands Specialist B2B Buyer Content: Brand & Content Brands B2B Buyer Intent & Demand Brands Omdia by Informa TechTarget Industry Dive NetLine Canalys Information Week Wards Intelligence Light Reading Enterprise Strategy Group AI Business Industry background and trends Informa TechTarget sits at the intersection of tech and B2B marketing, each dynamic innovative markets in its own right, with what management believes are compelling structural growth drivers. This provides a strong underpin to the long-term growth ambitions of Informa TechTarget. Technology transcends all aspects of daily life and work. Enterprise technology, incorporating software and hardware systems used by large organizations for anything from customer relationship management to networking and cyber security, is central to operating effectively and efficiently. The pace of innovation and change is rapid, creating a constant cycle of investment to enhance, upgrade and replace technology. For Informa TechTarget, investment in innovation and growth in research and development (R&D) budgets provide a leading indicator of demand for its products and services. This growth in technology-related R&D is driving a new wave of investment and innovation, enhancing existing products and inspiring the next generation of products and services. Over time, the scale of technology purchasing, particularly enterprise technology, has grown in size, resulting in B2B buying behavior becoming more complex. This complexity has led to longer sales cycles as more research is undertaken on purchasing technology products and platforms. Typically, large technology decisions will involve a number of people across an organization from technology professionals to CIOs, CFOs and often CEOs. This research takes many forms, with an increasing amount conducted online, including by reading specialist content, reviews, information, product profiles and bespoke research, as well as through webinars and online discussions. 29 Table of Contents The majority of the B2B buyer journey is now completed before a buyer might contact the sales team of a vendor. For technology vendors, online presence and digital brand visibility are therefore critical, leading to more companies focusing spend on branded content services, thought leadership and whitepaper distribution, digital event participation and advertising on the most relevant platforms and media. Management believes Informa TechTarget is at the center of this shift in B2B buyer behavior, delivering highly relevant content and research to technology buyers that informs, educates and influences them along the different stages of their buyer journey. These interactions with the content who reads what, who clicks to find out more, how long buyers spend on specific websites, etc. and general online behavior, when captured, enriched and analyzed, provide deep insights into who potential customers are, what products and services they might be interested in, where they are in their purchasing cycle and how significant is the intent to purchase. For B2B sales and marketing teams at technology vendors, this information is critical in targeting the right buyers at the right time, raising brand awareness and positioning products with the right audiences to secure leads that turn into sales. With increasing scrutiny and focus on return on investment, data-driven B2B marketing is becoming ever more relevant given it is typically more measurable, with more efficiency than more traditional advertising and marketing services, helping to increase lead conversion rates, reduce the cost of customer acquisition and generate more revenue per dollar of marketing spend. Because most of Informa TechTargets clients are B2B technology companies, the success of Informa TechTarget is intrinsically linked to the health, and subject to the market conditions, of the technology industry. Informa TechTarget has recently been affected by macro-economic conditions, in particular the negative impact of economic uncertainty, rising inflation and interest rates on the technology industry, which has impacted investment levels and overall client marketing expenditure. Although management cannot quantify the impact of macro-economic factors on Informa TechTarget's future results, any worsening of market conditions could negatively impact its financial position and liquidity. Marketing, advertising services and sponsorship revenue is more immediately impacted by changes in client spending and current macro-economic conditions than other revenue categories. Product and service offerings Over the last five years, Informa TechTarget has been building a portfolio of data-driven solutions that are intended to capitalize on the positive structural market dynamic described above and meet the evolving needs of buyers and vendors in the technology market. Informa TechTarget has the potential to continue expanding upon this portfolio of capabilities. The Informa TechTarget businesses, help both buyers of B2B technology with knowledge and intelligence, supporting them through different stages of the buyer journey, and sellers of B2B technology in identifying relevant buyers for their products, who are in-market and with the greatest purchasing intent. These digital solutions fall into a number of categories: Demand solutions: These businesses enable marketers to directly engage prospective buyers through a portfolio of content marketing programs, including webinars, whitepapers, playbooks, virtual events and surveys. Through syndicating these across owned media properties and to NetLines publisher network, marketers can influence B2B tech buyers and generate demand for their products and services. The businesses are focused on delivering high-quality leads to marketers by gating their content across properties to maximize return on investment. The BrightTALK platform and audience outreach offerings allow our customers to create, host and promote webinars, virtual events and video content. Customers create their own hosted Channels on the platform where they schedule both live and on-demand webinars for promotion to BrightTALKs community of in-market accounts and prospects. The BrightTALK Channel also enables customers to self-administer lead generation campaigns, set up workflow integrations between the Channel and their customer relationship management (CRM) and marketing automation platforms (MAP) systems, and access reporting detailing the size and growth of their community of subscribers over time. Customers may also create an off-network embedded Channel page on their own corporate website featuring content in their BrightTALK Channel, as well as an embedded BrightTALK registration form that captures and converts interested individuals to marketing leads. Custom content services: Through StudioID, BrightTALK Studio, and Enterprise Strategy Group custom content offerings, we support marketers with their end-to-end content strategy by offering proprietary audience research to inform campaigns, strategic design and development, and original content production. Marketers leverage our award-winning deep industry expertise to create journalistic or analyst-sourced content across 40 different formats and multiple languages, which can then be distributed across our network. We also offer content licensing through Marketplace, whereby marketers curate relevant content from a selection of publishers and then distribute the content on their own channels to align themselves with top voices in their industries. 30 Table of Contents Intelligence subscription services: Operating through the Omdia brand, as well as niche brands Canalys and Wards Intelligence, the specialist tech research business is primarily an intelligence subscription service, providing clients with a core data backbone in addition to qualitative analyst-produced content across the technology industry spectrum. The data is typically comprised of market trackers, market sizing, market share analyses and forecasts, and is complemented by expert industry reports, analyst opinions and an Ask an Analyst service. Covering more than 3,000 topics and tracking over 12,000 companies, the businesses 300+ expert analysts and consultants provide quantitative and qualitative insights that help companies make better decisions, faster. Advisory: In the consulting business, the businesses work as an extension of client teams, working together to provide strategic support in assessing critical business challenges and providing bespoke solutions. The businesses leverage the breadth and depth of their analyst expertise to evaluate clients end-to-end business needs across go-to-market, competitive positioning, new product ideation, market entry. IT Deal Alert: IT Deal Alert is a suite of data, software and services designed for B2B technology companies that leverages detailed purchase intent data we collect from enterprise technology organizations and professionals browsing and purchasing IT products on our network of websites and engaging with our webinar community platform. Through our proprietary data-capture and scoring methodologies, we help our customers identify and prioritize accounts and contacts whose content consumption and online research activities around specific enterprise technology topics indicate that they are in-market for a particular B2B technology product or service. The suite of products and services includes Priority Engine and Qualified Sales Opportunities. Priority Engine is a subscription service powered by our Activity Intelligence platform that integrates with CRM and MAPsSalesforce.com, Marketo, Hubspot, Eloqua, Pardot, and Integrate to deliver lead generation workflow solutions. These workflows enable marketers and sales forces to identify, prioritize, and engage accounts and individuals actively researching new technology purchases or upgrades. Qualified Sales Opportunities is a product that profiles active purchase projects through surveys and interviews with business technology professionals whose online behavior suggests an upcoming technology purchase, providing insights into project scope, purchase criteria and vendors under consideration. Brand solutions: Brand solutions offer B2B marketers the opportunity to grow brand awareness through direct exposure to specialist technology and business audiences across the businesses portfolio of 14 online products and off-network through audience extension programs. Solutions include digital display banners, newsletter sponsorships and email marketing, enabling technology vendors to gain exposure and benefit from association with the businesses specialist brands and high quality editorial content amongst our readership base of engaged technology buyers. Brand solutions include the Industry Dive portfolio of more than 35 specialist brands, which deliver high quality business journalism to niche audiences, offering outbound email sponsorship opportunities to vendors looking to build awareness and reach key decision makers. Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates Preparation of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. The most significant areas where managements judgments, assumptions and estimates impact the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from managements estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Significant accounting policies are described fully in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included under