Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be, forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimate, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. We use words such as anticipates, believes, suggests, targets, projects, plans, expects, future, intends, estimates, predicts, potential, may, will, should, could, would, likely, foresee, forecast, continue and other similar words or phrases, as well as statements in the future tense to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of important factors, including those set forth below. ongoing legal challenges to or new state actions against our business model; our dependence on our relationships with affiliated professional entities; evolving government regulations and our ability to stay abreast of new or modified laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business; our ability to operate in the heavily regulated healthcare industry; our history of net losses and accumulated deficit; the impact of recent healthcare reform legislation and other changes in the healthcare industry; risk of the loss of any of our significant Clients; risks associated with a decrease in the number of individuals offered benefits by our Clients or the number of products and services to which they subscribe; our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with third parties; our ability to recruit and retain a network of qualified Providers; risk that the insurance we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures; rapid technological change in the telehealth market; risks associated with a material weakness that has been identified; any statements of belief and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing; other factors disclosed in this Form 10-Q; and other factors beyond our control. The foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive, and does not necessarily include all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. The information in this Quarterly Report should be read carefully in conjunction with other uncertainties and potential events described in our registration statements on Form S-1 (File No.333-204577) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), our Form 10-K in the Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2015 and our other filings with the SEC. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law or regulation, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 22 Table of Contents Overview We are the nations first and largest telehealth platform, delivering on-demand healthcare anytime, anywhere, via mobile devices, the internet, video and phone. Our solution connects consumers, or our Members, with our over 3,100 board-certified physicians and behavioral health professionals who treat a wide range of conditions and cases from acute diagnoses such as upper respiratory infection, urinary tract infection and sinusitis to dermatological conditions, anxiety and smoking cessation. Over 15 million unique Members now benefit from access to Teladoc 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, at a cost from $40 to $45 per visit. Our solution is delivered with a median response time of less than ten minutes from the time a Member requests a telehealth visit to the time they speak with a Teladoc physician. We completed approximately 240,000 telehealth visits in the first three months of 2016 and approximately 576,000 telehealth visits for the full year in 2015. Membership increased by approximately 4.5 million members from March 31, 2015 through March 31, 2016. The Teladoc solution is transforming the access, cost and quality dynamics of healthcare delivery for all of our market participants. Our Members rely on Teladoc to remotely access affordable, on-demand healthcare whenever and wherever they choose. Employers, health plans and consumers (our Clients) purchase our solution to reduce their healthcare spending while at the same time offering convenient, affordable, high-quality healthcare to their employees or beneficiaries. Our network of physicians and other healthcare professionals (our Providers) have the ability to generate meaningful income and deliver their services more efficiently with no administrative burden. We believe the value proposition of our solution is evidenced by our overall Member satisfaction rate, which has exceeded 95% over the last seven years. We further believe any consumer, employer or health plan or practitioner interested in a better approach to healthcare is a potential Teladoc Member, Client or Provider. In July 2015, we successfully closed on our IPO in which the Company issued and sold 9,487,500 shares of common stock, including the exercise of an underwriter option to purchase additional shares, at an issuance price of $19.00 per share. We received net proceeds of $163.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $12.6 million as well as other offering expenses of $4.5 million. On July 7, 2015, all of the Companys then-outstanding convertible preferred stock converted into an aggregate of 25.5 million shares of common stock and all of the Companys redeemable common stock converted into 113,294 shares of common stock. We generate revenue from our Clients on a contractually recurring, per-Member-per-month, subscription access fee basis, which provides us with significant revenue visibility. In addition, under the majority of our Client contracts, we generate additional revenue on a per-telehealth visit basis, through a visit fee. Subscription access fees are paid by our Clients on behalf of their employees, dependents, beneficiaries or themselves, while visit fees are paid by either Clients or Members. We generated $26.9 million and $16.5 million in revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, representing 63% year-over-year growth. We had net losses of $15.3 million and $12.7 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, 77% and 23% of our revenue was derived from subscription access fees and visit fees, respectively. Acquisition History We have scaled and intend to continue to scale our platform through the pursuit of selective acquisitions. We completed four acquisitions since our inception, which we believe have expanded our distribution capabilities and broadened our service offering. During 2015 we completed the following acquisitions. On June 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of StatDoc for aggregate consideration of $30.1 million, comprised of $13.3 million of cash and $16.8 million of our common stock (or 1,051,033 shares), net of cash acquired. StatDoc is a telemedicine provider, focused on managed care, health system and self-insured clients. In January 2015, we completed the acquisition of BetterHelp, a provider of direct-to-consumer, behavioral health services, for $3.3 million net of cash acquired, and a $1.0 million promissory note and we have agreed to make annual payments to the sellers equal to a percentage of the total net revenue generated by the BetterHelp business through February 2019. This acquisition helps us broaden our service into the direct-to-consumer and behavioral health sector. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Number of Members. Our revenue growth rate and long-term profitability are affected by our ability to increase our number of Members because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from subscription access fees 23 Table of Contents via Client contracts that provide Members access to our professional Provider network in exchange for a contractual based monthly fee. Revenue is driven primarily by the number of Clients, the number of Members in a Clients population, the number of services contracted for by a Client and the contractually negotiated prices of our services and the negotiated pricing that is specific to that particular Client. We believe that increasing our membership is an integral objective that will provide us with the ability to continually innovate our services and support initiatives that will enhance Member experiences. Membership increased by approximately 4.5 million members from March 31, 2015 through March 31, 2016. Number of Visits. We also realize revenue in connection with the completion of a visit for the majority of our contracts. Accordingly, our visit revenue, or visit fees, increase as the number of visits increase. Visit fee revenue is driven primarily by the number of Clients, the number of Members in a Clients population, Member utilization of our Provider network services and the contractually negotiated prices of our services. We believe that increasing our current Member utilization rate is a key objective in order for our Clients to realize tangible healthcare savings with our service. Visits increased by approximately 91,000 from March 31, 2015 through March 31, 2016. Seasonality. We typically experience the strongest increases in consecutive quarterly revenue during the fourth and first quarters of each year, which coincides with traditional annual benefit enrollment seasons. In particular, as a result of many Clients introduction of new services at the very end of the current year, or the start of each year, the majority of our new Client contracts have an effective date of January 1. Additionally, as a result of national seasonal cold and flu trends, we experience our highest level of visit fees during the first and fourth quarters of each year when compared to other quarters of the year. Conversely, the second quarter of the year has historically been the period of lowest utilization of our Provider network services relative to the other quarters of the year. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessOur quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate approximately 80% of our revenue from our Clients who purchase access to our professional Provider network for their employees, dependents and other beneficiaries. Our Client contracts include a per-Member-per-month subscription access fee as well as a visit fee for each completed visit, which is either paid to us by the Client, the Member or both parties. Accordingly, we generate subscription access revenue from our subscription access fees and visit revenue from our visit fees. Subscription access revenue accounted for approximately 77% and 80% of our total revenue during the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Subscription access revenue is driven primarily by the number of Clients, the number of Members in a Clients population, the number of services contracted for by a Client and the contractually negotiated prices of our services. Visit fee revenue is driven primarily by the number of Clients, the number of Members in a Clients population, Member utilization of our professional Provider network services and the contractually negotiated prices of our services. We recognize subscription access fees monthly when the following criteria are met: (i) there is an executed subscription agreement, (ii) the Member has access to the service, (iii) collection of the fees is reasonably assured and (iv) the amount of fees to be paid by the Client and Member is fixed and determinable. Our agreements generally have a term of one year. The majority of Clients renew their contracts with us following their first year of services. We generally invoice our Members in advance on a monthly basis. Visit fees are recognized as incurred and billed in arrears. Warranties and Indemnification Our arrangements generally include certain provisions for indemnifying Clients against liabilities if there is a breach of a Clients data or if our service infringes a third partys intellectual property rights. To date, we have not incurred any material costs as a result of such indemnifications. We have also agreed to indemnify our directors and executive officers for costs associated with any fees, expenses, judgments, fines and settlement amounts incurred by any of these persons in any action or proceeding to which any of those persons is, or is threatened to be, made a party by reason of the persons service as a director or officer, including any action by us, arising out of that persons services as our director or officer or that persons services 24 Table of Contents provided to any other company or enterprise at our request. We maintain director and officer liability insurance coverage that would generally enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We may also be subject to indemnification obligations by law with respect to the actions of our employees under certain circumstances and in certain jurisdictions. Concentrations of Risk and Significant Clients Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable. Although we deposit our cash with multiple financial institutions, our deposits, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. Our short-term investments are comprised of a portfolio of diverse high credit rating instruments with maturity durations of 1 year or less. During the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, substantially all of our revenue was generated by Clients located in the United States. No Client represented over 10% of revenues for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. No Client represented more than 10% of accounts receivable for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and year ended December 31, 2015. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of fees paid to our Providers, costs incurred in connection with our Provider network operations, which include employee-related expenses (including salaries and benefits), costs related to our call center activities and insurance, which includes coverage for medical malpractice claims. Cost of revenue is driven primarily by the number of visits completed in each period. Many of the elements of the cost of revenue are relatively variable and semi-variable, and can be reduced in the near-term to offset any decline in our revenue. Our business and operational models are designed to be highly scalable and leverage variable costs to support revenue-generating activities. While we currently expect to grow our headcount to build our Provider network operations center and to enhance our sales and technology capabilities and support business growth, we believe our increased investment in automation and integration capabilities and economies of scale in our Provider network operations center operating model, will position us to grow our revenue at a greater rate than our cost of revenue. Gross Profit Our gross profit is our total revenue minus our total cost of revenue, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the fees we charge our Clients, the number of visits we complete and the costs of running our Provider network operations center. We expect our annual gross margin to remain relatively steady over the near term, although our quarterly gross margin is expected to fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these aforementioned factors. Advertising and Marketing Expenses Advertising and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses for our marketing staff, including costs of communications materials that are produced to generate greater awareness and utilization among our Clients and Members. Marketing costs also include third-party independent research, trade shows and brand messages, public relations costs and stock-based compensation for our advertising and marketing employees. Our advertising and marketing expenses exclude certain allocations of occupancy expense as well as depreciation and amortization. We expect our advertising and marketing expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to increase the size of our advertising and marketing operations and expand into new products and markets. Our advertising and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our advertising campaigns and marketing expenses. We will continue to invest in advertising and marketing by hiring additional personnel and promoting our brand through a variety of marketing and public relations activities. 25 Table of Contents Sales Expenses Sales expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, commissions, employment taxes, travel and stock-based compensation costs for our employees engaged in sales, account management and sales support. Our sales expenses exclude certain allocations of occupancy expense as well as depreciation and amortization. We expect our sales expenses to increase as we strategically invest to expand our business. We expect to hire additional sales personnel and related account management and sales support personnel to capture an increasing amount of our market opportunity. As we scale our sales and related account management and sales support personnel in the short- to medium-term, we expect these expenses to increase. We will continue to invest in sales by hiring additional sales and account management and sales support personnel. Technology and Development Expenses Technology and development expenses include personnel and related expenses for software engineering, information technology infrastructure, security and compliance and product development. Technology and development expenses also include outsourced software engineering services, the costs of operating our on-demand technology infrastructure and stock-based compensation for our technology and development employees. Our technology and development expenses exclude certain allocations of occupancy expense as well as depreciation and amortization. We expect our technology and development expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in the development of our technology platform. Our technology and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our technology and development expenses. Historically, the majority of our technology and development expenses has been expensed. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel and related expenses of, and professional fees incurred by, our executive, finance, product development, legal, business development, operations and human resources departments. They also include stock-based compensation and most of the facilities costs including utilities and facilities maintenance. Our general and administrative expenses exclude any allocation of depreciation and amortization. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future due to costs that we incur as a new public company, as well as other costs associated with continuing to grow our business. However, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over the next several years. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period due to the seasonality of our total revenue and the timing and extent of our general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization consists primarily of depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of capitalized software development costs and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income (expense), net consists of interest activity associated with our bank, other debt and short-term investments. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) We account for income taxes using the liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial reporting carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax credit and net operating losses (NOLs). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and a valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts 26 Table of Contents more likely than not expected to be realized. We have also recorded deferred tax liabilities arising principally from the treatment of goodwill for tax purposes compared to financial accounting book purposes. We have provided a full valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, due to the uncertainty surrounding the future realization of such deferred tax assets. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 and the dollar and percentage change between the respective periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ $ Variance %(a) Revenue $ 26,888 $ 16,488 $ 10,399 63 % Cost of revenue 7,943 5,281 2,661 50 % Gross profit 18,945 11,207 7,738 69 % Operating expenses: Advertising and marketing 8,050 4,341 3,709 85 % Sales 5,270 3,682 1,588 43 % Technology and development 5,225 2,906 2,319 80 % General and administrative 13,607 11,968 1,639 14 % Total operating expenses 32,152 22,897 9,255 40 % EBITDA (13,207) (11,690) (1,517) 13 % Depreciation and amortization 1,508 903 605 67 % Loss from operations (14,715) (12,593) (2,122) 17 % Interest income (expense), net (427) (568) 141 25 % Net loss before taxes (15,142) (13,161) (1,981) 15 % Income tax (provision) benefit (162) 458 (620) -135 % Net loss $ (15,304) $ (12,703) $ (2,601) 20 % (1) EBITDA consists of net income (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. See additional information regarding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA at the end of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Adjusted EBITDA The following table reconciles net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Net loss $ (15,304) $ (12,703) Add (deduct): Interest (income) expense, net 427 568 Provision for income taxes (benefits) 162 (458) Depreciation expense 447 214 Amortization expense 1,061 689 EBITDA (13,207) (11,690) Stock-based compensation 1,288 811 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ (11,919) $ (10,879) (1) Adjusted EBITDA 27 Table of Contents To supplement our financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, we use Adjusted EBITDA, a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. We believe that the presentation of this financial measure enhances an investors understanding of our financial performance. We further believe that this financial measure is a useful financial metric to assess our operating performance from period-to-period by excluding certain items that we believe are not representative of our core business. We use certain financial measures for business planning purposes and in measuring our performance relative to that of our competitors. Accordingly, we utilize Adjusted EBITDA as the primary measure of our performance. Adjusted EBITDA consists of net loss before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation. We believe that making such adjustment provides investors meaningful information to understand our results of operations and the ability to analyze financial and business trends on a period-to-period basis. We believe this financial measure is commonly used by investors to evaluate our performance and that of our competitors. However, our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA may vary from that of others in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net loss before taxes, net loss, loss per share or any other performance measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP as measures of performance. Adjusted EBITDA has an important limitation as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Adjusted EBITDA: does not reflect the significant interest expense on our debt; and does not reflect the significant non cash stock compensation expense which should be viewed as a component of recurring operating costs; and eliminates the impact of income taxes on our results of operations; and although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect any expenditures for such replacements; and other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as comparative measures. We compensate for these limitations by using Adjusted EBITDA along with other comparative tools, together with U.S. GAAP measurements, to assist in the evaluation of operating performance. Such U.S. GAAP measurements include gross profit, net loss, net loss per share and other performance measures. In evaluating these financial measures, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses similar to those eliminated in this presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or nonrecurring items. Consolidated Results of Operations Discussion We completed our acquisitions of Gateway on July 31, 2015, StatDoc on June 17, 2015 and BetterHelp on January 23, 2015. The results of operations of BetterHelp, StatDoc and Gateway since their respective acquisition dates have been included in our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report. Revenue. Total revenue was $26.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $16.5 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $10.4 million, or 63%. The increase in revenue was substantially driven by an increase in new Clients and the number of new Members generating additional subscription access fees. The increase in subscription access fees was due to the addition of new Clients, as the number of Members increased by 42% from March 31, 2015 to March 31, 2016. We experienced approximately 240,000 visits, representing $6.2 million of visit fees for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to approximately 149,000 visits, representing $3.3 million of visit fees during the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $2.9 million, or 87%. Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue was $7.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $5.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $2.6 million, or 50%. The increase was primarily due to increased telehealth visits resulting in increased provider fees, increased physician network operation center costs. 28 Table of Contents Gross Profit. Gross profit was $18.9 million, or 70% as a percentage of revenue, for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $11.2 million, or 68%, as a percentage of revenue, for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $7.7 million, or 69%. The increase was primarily due to the aforementioned revenue and cost of revenue growth. Advertising and Marketing Expenses. Advertising and marketing expenses were $8.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $4.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $3.7 million, or 85%. This increase primarily consisted of increased member engagement initiatives, sponsorship of professional organizations and trade shows of $3.1 million, increased staffing of $0.4 million and other expenses of $0.2 million. Sales Expenses. Sales expenses were $5.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $3.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $1.6 million, or 43%. This increase primarily consisted of increased staffing and sales commissions of $1.3 million and an increase to other sales expenses of $0.3 million. Technology and Development Expenses. Technology and development expenses were $5.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $2.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $2.3 million, or 80%. This increase resulted primarily from hiring additional personnel totaling $2.2 million. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were $13.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $12.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $1.6 million, or 14%. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in employee-related expenses of approximately $2.2 million as a result of growth in total employee headcount to 618 at March 31, 2016 as compared to 259 at March 31, 2015. Other expenses, which include office-related charges and bank charges, increased by $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to March 31, 2015 to support the growth of our business. The aforementioned increases are partially offset by $1.2 million as a result of a reduction in our physician network operations costs as we migrated all previously outsourced call center activities in-house. Professional fees, principally legal, decreased by $0.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization was $1.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $0.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of $0.6 million, or 67%. The increase was due to additional amortization expenses primarily related to acquisition-related intangible assets that grew from $12.5 million at March 31, 2015 to $21.2 million at March 31, 2016 and an increase of depreciation expense on an increased base of depreciable fixed assets that grew from $2.7 million at March 31, 2015 to $8.6 million at March 31, 2016. Interest Income (Expense), Net. Interest income (expense), net consists of interest costs associated with our bank and other debt and interest income from short-term investments in marketable securities. Interest income (expense), net was $0.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $0.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. The decrease in net interest expense reflects higher interest income from our short-term investments. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents a summary of our cash flow activity for the periods set forth below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data Net cash used in operating activities $ (17,130) $ (10,336) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 12,074 (4,068) Net cash provided by financing activities 183 28 Total $ (4,872) $ (14,376) Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through private sales of equity securities and to a lesser extent, bank borrowings. In July 2015, we received $163.1 million of net cash proceeds associated with the issuance of 9,487,500 shares of common stock in conjunction with our IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $12.6 million as well as other offering expenses of $4.5 million. 29 Table of Contents Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents totaling $50.2 million as of March 31, 2016, which were held for working capital purposes. In addition, we have $69.5 million of short-term investments in marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of money market funds and marketable securities. Cash Used in Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $17.1 million. The negative cash flows resulted primarily from our net loss of $15.3 million, partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $1.5 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.8 million, stock-based compensation of $1.3 million, deferred income tax of $0.2 million and accretion of interest of $0.1 million. These items are offset by the effect of changes in working capital and other balance sheet accounts resulting in cash outflows of approximately $5.7 million, all of which was the result of growth of the business. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million. The negative cash flows resulted primarily from our net loss of $12.7 million, partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $0.9 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.5 million, stock-based compensation of $0.8 million and the effect of changes in working capital and other balance sheet accounts resulting in cash inflows of approximately $0.6 million. These items were offset by deferred income taxes of $0.4 million. The increase in cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of additional headcount, increased marketing expenses, costs incurred to improve and optimize our technology platform, increases in our physician network operations center and office-related charges to support the growth of our business. Cash Provided by (Used) in Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $12.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Cash provided by investing activities consisted of purchase and maturities of short-term marketable securities of $12.7 million, net of sales, and offset by purchases of property and equipment totaling $0.2 million and investments in internally developed capitalized software of $0.4 million. Cash used in investing activities was $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Cash used in investing activities consisted of the acquisitions of BetterHelp of $3.3 million, purchases of property and equipment totaling $0.4 million and investments in internally developed capitalized software of $0.4 million. Cash Provided by Financing Activities Historically, our primary financing activities have consisted of private sales of preferred stock and bank and other borrowings. In July 2015, we generated cash proceeds from our IPO. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $0.2 million. Cash provided by financing activities consisted of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $0.5 million, offset by repayment of $0.3 million under the Revolving Advance Facility. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Looking Forward As a result of our recent IPO, we received $163.1 million of net cash proceeds in July 2015. Currently, we anticipate negative EBITDA results through the end of 2017. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, contract renewal activity, number of visits, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, our expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced service offerings and the continuing market acceptance of telehealth. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Indebtedness In May 2014, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) that provided for a Revolving Advance facility and a Term Loan Facility (the Amended Term Loan Facility). The Revolving Advance Facility provides for borrowings up to $12.0 million based on 300% of the Companys monthly recurring revenue, as defined therein. Borrowings under the Revolving Advance Facility were $6.5 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. The Revolving Advance Facility carries interest at a rate of 0.75% above the prime rate per annum and was to mature in April 2016. The Company entered into an amendment to the Revolving Advance Facility in March 2015 that extended its maturity to April 2017. Interest payments are payable monthly in arrears. The Amended Term Loan Facility provides for borrowings up to $5.0 million. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had utilized the total $5.0 million available under this Amended Term Loan Facility. The Amended Term Loan Facility carries interest at a rate of 1.00% above the prime rate per annum. Interest payments are payable monthly in arrears. Payments on the Amended Term Loan Facility commenced in May 2015 and continue with 47 equal monthly payments of principal plus interest. In May 2014, the Company entered into a Subordinated Loan and Security Agreement with SVB that provided for a Mezzanine Term Loan totaling $13.0 million. The total $13.0 million drawdown of the Mezzanine Term Loan was completed in September 2014. The Mezzanine Term Loan carries interest at a rate of 10.00% per annum and matures in May 2017. Interest payments are payable monthly in arrears. In connection with entry into the Mezzanine Term Loan, the Company granted two affiliates of SVB warrants to purchase an aggregate of 131,239 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $2.95 per share. The warrants were immediately exercisable and had a 10 year term and were exercised in 2015. See Note 12, Common Stock and Stockholders Equity, for more information. The Company also granted SVB a security interest in significantly all of the Companys assets. The Mezzanine Term Loan has been used to fund the expansion of the Companys business. The Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with SVB and the Subordinated Loan and Security Agreement are collectively referred to as the SVB Facilities. The Company incurred approximately $0.3 million of loan origination costs in connection with the SVB Facilities and amortized approximately $24,000 and $21,000 during the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Effective with the purchase of AmeriDoc, the Company executed a Subordinated Promissory Note in the amount of $3.5 million payable to the seller of AmeriDoc on April 30, 2015. The Subordinated Promissory Note carries interest at a rate of 10.00% annual interest and is subordinated to the SVB Facilities. In March 2015, the Company, the seller of AmeriDoc and SVB executed an Amended and Restated Subordinated Promissory Note that extended the maturity of the Amended and Restated Subordinated Promissory Note to April 30, 2017. In November 2015, the Company executed the Second Amended and Restated Subordinated Promissory Note with a revised annual interest rate of 7.00% commencing on January 1, 2016 and extended the maturity of the Second Amended and Restated Subordinated Promissory Note to April 30, 2018 with a seller put option effective on April 30, 2017. The Company repaid $0.5 million of principal on this Second Amended and Restated Subordinated Promissory Note during 2015. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2016: Payment Due by Period Less than 1 to 3 4 to 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (in thousands) Operating leases $ 9,995 $ 1,684 $ 2,160 $ 1,850 $ 4,301 Obligations under SVB Facilities and AmeriDoc Promissory Note 26,354 1,250 25,000 104 Interest associated with long-term debt 2,426 1,934 492 0 Total $ 38,775 $ 4,868 $ 27,652 $ 1,954 $ 4,301 Our existing office and hosting co-location facilities lease agreements provide us with the option to renew and generally provide for rental payments on a graduated basis. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we 31 Table of Contents entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations and if we exercised the office and hosting co-location facilities lease options. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. For abandoned facilities, the above contractual obligation schedule does not reflect any realized or potential sublease revenue. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, nor do we currently have, any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We are therefore not exposed to the financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in those types of relationships.