Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth in the risk factors section included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as filed with the SEC. General Our goal is to deliver superior IT solutions that meet or exceed our customers' expectations. We focus on secure enterprise solutions that address the unique requirements of the federal government, the military, and the intelligence community, as well as commercial enterprises that require secure solutions. Our IT solutions consist of the following: Cyber Operations and Defense: o Cyber Security Solutions and services that assure the security of our customers' information, systems, and networks, including the Xacta IA Manager suite for IT governance, risk management, and compliance. Our information and cyber security consulting services include security assessments, digital forensics, and continuous compliance monitoring. o Secure Mobility Design, engineering and delivery of secure solutions that empower the mobile and deployed workforce in business and government. Our solutions protect sensitive communication while delivering voice, data, and video at the point of work in classified and unclassified environments. Identity Management Solutions that establish trusted identities in order to ensure authenticated physical access to offices, workstations, and other facilities; secure digital access to databases, host systems, and other IT resources; and protect people and organizations against insider threats. IT and Enterprise Solutions We have the experience with solution development and global integration to meet the requirements of business and government enterprises with secure IT solutions, from organizational messaging and data visualization to network construction and management. Backlog Funded backlog as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $58.3 million and $61.5 million, respectively. Funded backlog was $59.2 million at December 31, 2015. Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Telos Corporation and its subsidiaries including Ubiquity.com, Inc., Xacta Corporation, and Teloworks, Inc., all of whose issued and outstanding share capital is owned by Telos Corporation (collectively, the "Company" or "Telos" or "We"). We have also consolidated the results of operations of Telos ID (see Note 2 Non-controlling Interests). All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Our operating cycle involves many types of solution, product and service contracts with varying delivery schedules. Accordingly, results of a particular quarter, or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of recorded sales and operating profits, may not be indicative of future operating results and the following comparative analysis should therefore be viewed in such context. 24 Index We provide different solutions and are party to contracts of varying revenue types under the NETCENTS (Network-Centric Solutions) contract to the U.S. Air Force. NETCENTS is an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") and government-wide acquisition contract ("GWAC"), therefore any government customer may utilize the NETCENTS vehicle to meet its purchasing needs. Consequently, revenue earned on the underlying NETCENTS delivery orders varies from period to period according to the customer and solution mix for the products and services delivered during a particular period, unlike a standalone contract with one separately identified customer. The contract itself does not fund any orders and it states that the contract is for an indefinite delivery and indefinite quantity. The majority of our task/delivery orders have periods of performance of less than 12 months, which contributes to the variances between interim and annual reporting periods. The original NETCENTS contract was awarded in 2004 and has been modified 40 times since that time, including numerous modifications to extend the period of performance. The period of performance for the award of new task orders under the contract ended on September 30, 2013. Previously awarded task orders that contain periods of performance that extended past September 30, 2013, including exercisable option years under existing task orders, were not affected by the contract expiration. We were selected for an award on the NETCENTS replacement contract, NETCENTS-2 Network Operations and Infrastructure Solutions Small Business Companion, on March 27, 2014. Although no protest was filed over the Telos contract award, protests filed by other bidders resulted in a recommendation by the Government Accountability Office ("GAO") that the U.S. Air Force re-evaluate proposals and make a new source selection decision. As a result of the delays in the NETCENTS-2 procurement, some government orders that could have been issued through NETCENTS-2 have been issued through other contract vehicles, under which we were not prime contract awardees. This has contributed to declines in revenues and margins below historical performance levels. Subsequent to the Air Force's reevaluation of the NETCENTS-2 procurement related to the protests, we were selected for an award on April 3, 2015. While we historically derived a substantial amount of revenue from task/delivery orders under the NETCENTS contract, we have also been awarded other IDIQ/GWACs, including the Department of Homeland Security's EAGLE II and blanket purchase agreements under our GSA schedule. However, we have not been awarded significant delivery orders under EAGLE II due in part to government funding issues for the Department of Homeland Security. On August 31, 2015, we were notified that we were not awarded the re-compete of a contract within our IT & Enterprise Solutions (formerly Secure Communications) area for a government agency. The contract had a total funded value of over $45 million over the past three years and accounted for approximately 11% of revenue for 2015. We filed a protest of the award with the Court of Federal Claims, which entered a final order denying the protest on February 29, 2016. On March 4, 2016, we filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, appealing the decision of the Court of Federal Claims. On that same day, we also filed a request for an injunction pending appeal with the Court of Federal Claims. The Court of Federal Claims has not yet ruled on our request for an injunction pending appeal. We continue to perform under the current contract, which has a period of performance that ends May 22, 2016. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation. In 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), which established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years 2012-2021. On November 2, 2015, the President signed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA) into law. The BBA sets fiscal year 2016 and 2017 DoD spending caps that exceed recent DoD budget funding levels. These spending caps are recognized by both the Executive branch and Congress and are therefore expected to lead to a stable budget process for those two years. In addition, while the spending cap increase does not meet the DoD's original fiscal year 2016 base budget funding request or its planned fiscal year 2017 funding level, it should provide for modest growth in the DoD's modernization budgets for fiscal years 2016 and 2017. 25 Index The principal element of the Company's operating expenses as a percentage of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (unaudited) Revenue 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales 60.9 75.8 Selling, general and administrative expenses 34.5 30.3 Operating income (loss) 4.6 (6.1) Interest expense, net (5.2) (4.7) Loss before income taxes (0.6) (10.8) Benefit for income taxes --- 2.4 Net loss (0.6) (8.4) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (2.6) (1.4) Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation (3.2)% (9.8)% Revenue decreased by 3.4% to $27.1 million for the first quarter of 2016, from $28.0 million for the same period in 2015. Such decrease primarily consists of decreases in sales from the U.S. Air Force NETCENTS contract, consistent with the expiration of the performance period for award of new task orders in September 2013. As discussed above, NETCENTS is an IDIQ contract utilized by multiple government customers and sales under NETCENTS varied from period to period according to the solution mix and timing of deliverables for a particular period. Services revenue decreased to $24.3 million for the first quarter of 2016 from $25.3 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to a decrease in sales of $3.9 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables, offset by increases in sales of $2.0 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security deliverables, and $0.9 million of Identity Management solutions. The change in product and services revenue varies from period to period depending on the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions, as well as the timing of deliverables. Product revenue increased to $2.8 million for the first quarter of 2016 from $2.7 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to an increase in sales of $0.5 million of Identity Management solutions, offset by decreases in sales of $0.3 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security deliverables, and $0.1 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables. Cost of sales decreased by 22.3% to $16.5 million for the first quarter of 2016 from $21.2 million for the same period in 2015, primarily due to decreases in revenue of $0.9 million, coupled with a decreased cost of sales as a percentage of revenue of 14.9%. Cost of sales for services decreased by $4.9 million, and as a percentage of services revenue decreased by 16.8%, due to a change in the mix of the programs and timing of certain Telos-installed solutions in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables including a contract settlement on a prior period loss contract. Cost of sales for products increased by $0.1 million, and as a percentage of product revenue increased by 2.9%, primarily due to decreased revenue for proprietary software in Cyber Operations and Defense. The decrease in cost of sales is not necessarily indicative of a trend as the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions can vary from period to period, and further can be affected by the timing of deliverables. Gross profit increased by 56.1% to $10.6 million for the first quarter of 2016 from $6.8 million for the same period in 2015. Gross margin increased to 39.1% in the first quarter of 2016, from 24.2% for the same period in 2015. Services gross margin increased to 38.6% from 21.8% due primarily to a change in program mix during the period as noted above. Product gross margin decreased to 43.6% from 46.6% due primarily to a decrease in sales of proprietary software. 26 Index Selling, general, and administrative expense increased by 10.0% to $9.3 million for the first quarter of 2016, from $8.5 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to increases in labor costs of $0.3 million, legal costs of $0.1 million, and bad debt expense of $0.1 million. Operating income was $1.2 million for the first quarter of 2016, compared to operating loss of $1.7 million for the same period in 2015, due primarily to an increase in gross profit as noted above. Interest expense increased 5.2% to $1.4 million for the first quarter of 2016, from $1.3 million for the same period in 2015, primarily due to an increase in interest on the Porter Notes. Income tax provision was $8,000 for the first quarter of 2016, compared to $669,000 income tax benefit for the same period in 2015, which is based on the estimated annual effective tax rate applied to the pretax loss incurred for the quarter, based on our expectation of pretax loss for the fiscal year. Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation was $0.9 million for the first quarter of 2016, compared to $2.7 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to the increase in operating income for the quarter as discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As described in more detail below, we maintain a revolving credit facility (the "Facility") with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Inc. ("Wells Fargo"). Borrowings under the Facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable. The amount of available borrowings fluctuates based on the underlying asset-borrowing base, in general 85% of our trade accounts receivable, as adjusted by certain reserves (as further defined in the Facility agreement). The Facility provides us with virtually all of the liquidity we require to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. Therefore, maintaining sufficient availability on the Facility is the most critical factor in our liquidity. While a variety of factors related to sources and uses of cash, such as timeliness of accounts receivable collections, vendor credit terms, or significant collateral requirements, ultimately impact our liquidity, such factors may or may not have a direct impact on our liquidity, based on how the transactions associated with such circumstances impact our availability under the Facility. For example, a contractual requirement to post collateral for a duration of several months, depending on the materiality of the amount, could have an immediate negative effect on our liquidity, as such a circumstance would utilize availability on the Facility without a near-term cash inflow back to us. Likewise, the release of such collateral could have a corresponding positive effect on our liquidity, as it would represent an addition to our availability without any corresponding near-term cash outflow. Similarly, a slow-down of payments from a customer, group of customers or government payment office would not have an immediate and direct effect on our availability on the Facility unless the slowdown was material in amount and over an extended period of time. Any of these examples would have an impact on the Facility, and therefore our liquidity. Our ability to renew the Facility, which matures in April 2017, or to enter into a new credit facility to replace or supplement the Facility may be limited due to various factors, including the status of our business, global credit market conditions, and perceptions of our business or industry by sources of financing. In addition, if credit is available, lenders may seek more restrictive covenants and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity, increase our costs, or reduce our operating flexibility. The failure to extend, renew or replace the Facility with a comparable credit facility that provides similar amounts of liquidity for the Company would have a material negative impact on our overall liquidity, financial and operating results. Additionally, as a result of operations for 2014, and the continued impact of contract delays as well as other government budgetary funding issues, management determined the need to raise additional working capital. Accordingly, in December 2014, we sold 10% of the membership interests in Telos ID to the Telos ID Class B member for $5 million, and, in March 2015, we issued subordinated notes in the amount of $2.5 million to affiliated entities of John R.C. Porter ("Porter Notes"), a holder of Telos Class A Common Stock and Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. Management currently believes that the Company's existing borrowing capacity is sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next 12 months. Management may determine that, in order to reduce capital and liquidity requirements, planned spending on capital projects and indirect expense growth may be curtailed, subject to growth in operating results. Should management determine that additional capital is required, management would likely look first to the sources of funding discussed above to meet any requirements, although no assurances can be given that these investors would be able to invest or that the Company and the investors would agree upon terms for such investments. 27 Index Our working capital was $(0.8) million and $1.1 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities was $4.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $3.3 million for the same period in 2015. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is primarily driven by the Company's operating income, the timing of receipt of customer payments, the timing of its payments to vendors and employees, and the timing of inventory turnover, adjusted for certain non-cash items that do not impact cash flows from operating activities. Additionally, net loss was $0.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $2.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Cash used in investing activities was approximately $0.1 million for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, due to the purchase of property and equipment. Cash used in financing activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 was $4.1 million, compared to $3.2 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to net repayments of $3.9 million to the Facility for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to net repayments of $5.6 million to the Facility, offset by proceeds from the Porter Notes of $2.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Additionally, our capital structure consists of redeemable preferred stock and common stock. The capital structure is complex and requires an understanding of the terms of the instruments, certain restrictions on scheduled payments and redemptions of the various instruments, and the interrelationship of the instruments especially as it relates to the subordination hierarchy. Therefore, a thorough understanding of how our capital structure impacts our liquidity is necessary and accordingly we have disclosed the relevant information about each instrument as follows: Senior Revolving Credit Facility The Facility has various covenants that may, among other things, affect our ability to merge with another entity, sell or transfer certain assets, pay dividends and make other distributions beyond certain limitations. The Facility contains financial covenants including minimum EBITDA, minimum recurring revenue and a limit on capital expenditures. On March 27, 2014, we amended our Facility with Wells Fargo to amend the terms of the Facility with respect to repayment on the term loan component. Since 2010, the principal of the term loan component had been repaid in quarterly installments of $93,750. The amended Facility required quarterly installment payments of $250,000 beginning July 1, 2014, with a final installment of the unpaid principal amount payable on the maturity date of the amended Facility. On March 31, 2015, the Facility was amended ("the Twelfth Amendment") to extend the maturity date to April 1, 2016. The Twelfth Amendment also amended the terms of the Facility, reducing the total credit available from $30 million to $20 million, and reducing the letter of credit sub-line limit from $5 million to $1 million. The reduced limits under the Facility more appropriately reflected the Company's projected utilization of the Facility. The Twelfth Amendment required quarterly installment payments of $350,000 beginning April 1, 2015, and extended the maturity date to April 1, 2016. The Twelfth Amendment established EBITDA and recurring revenue covenants, amending and restating in the entirety previously established financial covenants. The Twelfth Amendment authorized the issuance of $5 million in subordinated notes to affiliated entities of John R.C. Porter ("Porter Notes"), a holder of Telos Class A Common Stock and Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. The Twelfth Amendment also established a minimum excess availability requirement under the revolving component of $1.25 million and allowed for the payment of interest under the Porter Notes, subject to separate subordination agreements. In conjunction with the Twelfth Amendment, Wells Fargo issued a waiver of certain existing defaults under the Facility. In consideration for the closing of the Twelfth Amendment, we paid Wells Fargo a fee of $150,000, plus expenses related to the closing. 28 Index Prior to the Twelfth Amendment, the interest rate on the term loan component was the same as that on the revolving credit component of the Facility, which was the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 1%, the Federal Funds rate plus 1.5%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 2%. In lieu of having interest charged at the foregoing rates, the Company could have elected to have the interest on all or a portion of the advances on the revolving credit component be a rate based on the LIBOR Rate (as defined in the Facility) plus 3.75%. The Twelfth Amendment also amended the interest rate on the components of the Facility. The Twelfth Amendment established two tiers of interest rate pricing based upon the Company's performance compared to projections provided to Wells Fargo for 2015. The first tier interest rate pricing was effective as of the date of the amendment and is the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 2.25%, the Federal Funds rate plus 2.75%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 3.25%. In lieu of having interest charged at the foregoing rates, the Company may elect to have the interest on all or a portion of the advances on the revolving credit component be a rate based on the LIBOR Rate plus 5%. Upon receipt by Wells Fargo of our quarterly financial statements, starting with the June 2015 financials, pricing is redetermined based on the Company's performance compared to plan. Failure to meet or exceed plan EBITDA for each quarter (as defined by the Facility) would result in the first tier rates remaining in effect until the quarter-end reflecting plan achievement. Assuming plan achievement, which was the case for the quarter ended June 30, 2015, the second tier interest rate pricing becomes effective, which is the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 1%, the Federal Funds rate plus 1.5%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 2%. In lieu of having interest charged at the foregoing rates, the Company may elect to have the interest on all or a portion of the advances on the revolving credit component be a rate based on the LIBOR Rate plus 3.75%. As of March 31, 2016, we had not elected the LIBOR Rate option. Borrowings under the Facility are collateralized by substantially all of the Company's assets including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable. On August 12, 2015, the Facility was amended to extend the maturity date to July 1, 2016. On November 17, 2015, the Facility was further amended to extend the maturity date to October 1, 2016, and the EBITDA covenant for the period ending September 30, 2015 was reset to more accurately reflect the Company's revised estimates of operating results. On February 19, 2016, the Facility was amended, effective February 15, 2016, and the EBITDA covenant for the period ending December 31, 2015 was revised to more accurately reflect the Company's estimates of operating results. As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with the Facility's financial covenants, including EBITDA covenants. On March 30, 2016 the Facility was amended ("the Seventeenth Amendment") to extend the maturity date to January 1, 2017. The Seventeenth Amendment also amends the terms of the Facility, reducing the total credit available from $20 million to $10 million effective as of the date of the amendment, which more appropriately reflect the Company's projected utilization of the Facility. The Seventeenth Amendment sets the quarterly EBITDA covenants to more accurately reflect the Company's current operating budget. All other financial covenants remain unchanged. The Seventeenth Amendment eliminates the bottom tier of pricing established in the Twelfth Amendment, fixing the interest rate at the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 2.25%, the Federal Funds rate plus 2.75%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 3.25%. The Seventeenth Amendment also increases the minimum excess availability requirement under the revolving component from $1.25 million to $2.0 million, effective as of the date of the amendment, and increases the requirement to $2.5 million, effective July 1, 2016, and $3.0 million, effective November 1, 2016, if the Company does not receive $5 million of equity or subordinated debt investment by June 1, 2016. If such capital investment is not received by June 1, 2016, we would pay a fee of $100,000 to Wells Fargo. In consideration for the closing of the Seventeenth Amendment, we paid Wells Fargo a fee of $100,000, plus expenses related to the closing. On May 16, 2016, the Facility was amended to extend the maturity date to April 1, 2017. As of March 31, 2016, the interest rate on the Facility was 5.75%. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $0.1 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, on the Facility. At March 31, 2016, we had outstanding borrowings of $5.1 million on the Facility, which included the $2.9 million term loan, of which $1.4 million was short-term. At December 31, 2015, we had outstanding borrowings of $8.5 million on the Facility, which included the $3.2 million term loan, of which $1.4 million was short-term. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had unused borrowing availability on the Facility of $5.8 million. The effective weighted average interest rates on the outstanding borrowings under the Facility were 8.3% and 6.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 29 Index Subordinated Debt On March 31, 2015, the Company entered into Subordinated Loan Agreements and Subordinated Promissory Notes ("Porter Notes") with affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (together referenced as "Porter"). Mr. Porter and Toxford Corporation, of which Mr. Porter is the sole shareholder, own 39.3% of our Class A Common Stock. Under the terms of the Porter Notes, Porter lent the Company $2.5 million on or about March 31, 2015. Telos also entered into Subordination and Intercreditor Agreements (the "Subordination Agreements") with Porter and Wells Fargo, in which the Porter Notes are fully subordinated to the Facility and payments under the Porter Notes are permitted only if certain conditions specified by Wells Fargo are met. According to the terms of the Porter Notes, the outstanding principal sum bears interest at the fixed rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum which would be payable in arrears in cash on the 20th day of each May, August, November and February, with the first interest payment date due on August 20, 2015. The Porter Notes do not call for amortization payments and are unsecured. The unpaid principal, together with interest, is due and payable in full on July 1, 2017. The Porter Notes, in whole or in part, may be repaid at any time without premium or penalty. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $75,000 on the Porter Notes for the three months ended March 31, 2016. In accordance with the terms of the Porter Notes, interest has been accrued but was not paid due to restrictions on the payment of interest in the Subordination Agreements, and is not expected to be paid in the near term. Redeemable Preferred Stock We currently have two primary classes of redeemable preferred stock - Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and Public Preferred Stock. These classes of stock carry cumulative dividend rates of 14.125% and 12%, respectively. We accrue dividends on both classes of redeemable preferred stock and provided for accretion related to the Public Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Public Preferred Stock was fully accreted. The total carrying amount of redeemable preferred stock, including accumulated and unpaid dividends was $126.9 million and $125.9 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. We recorded dividends of $1.0 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, on the two classes of redeemable preferred stock, and such amounts have been included in interest expense. Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock is senior to all other outstanding equity of the Company, including the Public Preferred Stock. The Series A-1 ranks on a parity with the Series A-2. The components of the authorized Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock are 1,250 shares of Series A-1 and 1,750 shares of Series A-2 Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, each with $.01 par value. The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock carries a cumulative per annum dividend rate of 14.125% of its liquidation value of $1,000 per share. The dividends are payable semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each year. We have not declared dividends on our Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock since its issuance. The liquidation preference of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock is the face amount of the Series A-1 and A-2 ($1,000 per share), plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. Due to the terms of the Facility and of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, we have been and continue to be precluded from paying any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, other than described below. Certain holders of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock have entered into standby agreements whereby, among other things, those holders will not demand any payments in respect of dividends or redemptions of their instruments and the maturity dates of the instruments have been extended. As a result of such standby agreements, as of March 31, 2016, instruments held by Toxford Corporation ("Toxford"), the holder of 76.4% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, will mature on May 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2016, Mr. John Porter held 6.3% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. In the aggregate, as of March 31, 2016, Mr. Porter and Toxford held a total of 163 shares and 228 shares of Series A-1 and Series A-2 Redeemable Preferred Stock, respectively, or 82.7% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. Mr. Porter is the sole stockholder of Toxford. Mr. Porter and Toxford own 39.3% of our Class A Common Stock. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the total number of shares of Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock issued and outstanding was 197 shares and 276 shares for Series A-1 and Series A-2, respectively. Due to the limitations, contractual restrictions, and agreements described above, the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock is classified as noncurrent as of March 31, 2016. 30 Index At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, cumulative undeclared, unpaid dividends relating to Senior Redeemable Preferred stock totaled $1.6 million. We accrued dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock of $17,000 and $16,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which were reported as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10, "Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity," on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' deficit. Public Preferred Stock A maximum of 6,000,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, has been authorized for issuance. We initially issued 2,858,723 shares of the Public Preferred Stock pursuant to the acquisition of the Company during fiscal year 1990. The Public Preferred Stock was recorded at fair value on the date of original issue, November 21, 1989, and we made periodic accretions under the interest method of the excess of the redemption value over the recorded value. We adjusted our estimate of accrued accretion in the amount of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2006. The Public Preferred Stock was fully accreted as of December 2008. We declared stock dividends totaling 736,863 shares in 1990 and 1991. Since 1991, no other dividends, in stock or cash, have been declared. In November 1998, we retired 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock. The total number of shares issued and outstanding at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 was 3,185,586. The Public Preferred Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and the OTC Pink marketplace. Since 1991, no dividends were declared or paid on our Public Preferred Stock, based upon our interpretation of restrictions in our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, limitations in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock instrument, specific dividend payment restrictions in the Facility entered into with Wells Fargo to which the Public Preferred Stock is subject, other senior obligations, and Maryland law limitations in existence prior to October 1, 2009. Subsequent to the 2009 Maryland law change, dividend payments continue to be prohibited except under certain specific circumstances as set forth in Maryland Code Section 2-311, which the Company does not currently satisfy. Pursuant to the terms of the Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were scheduled, but not required, to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in five annual tranches during the period 2005 through 2009. However, due to our substantial senior obligations, limitations set forth in the covenants in the Facility, foreseeable capital and operational requirements, and restrictions and prohibitions of our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were unable to meet the redemption schedule set forth in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock. Moreover, the Public Preferred Stock is not payable on demand, nor callable, for failure to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the redemption schedule set forth in the instrument. Therefore, we classify these securities as noncurrent liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. We are parties with certain of our subsidiaries to the Facility agreement with Wells Fargo, whose term expires on April 1, 2017. Under the Facility, we agreed that, so long as any credit under the Facility is available and until full and final payment of the obligations under the Facility, we would not make any distribution or declare or pay any dividends (other than common stock) on our stock, or purchase, acquire, or redeem any stock, or exchange any stock for indebtedness, or retire any stock. Additionally, the Porter Notes contain similar prohibitions on dividend payments or stock redemptions. Accordingly, as stated above, we will continue to classify the entirety of our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as a long-term obligation. The Facility and the Porter Notes prohibit, among other things, the redemption of any stock, common or preferred, other than as described above. The Public Preferred Stock by its terms cannot be redeemed if doing so would violate the terms of an agreement regarding the borrowing of funds or the extension of credit which is binding upon us or any of our subsidiaries, and it does not include any other provisions that would otherwise require any acceleration of the redemption of or amortization payments with respect to the Public Preferred Stock. Thus, the Public Preferred Stock is not and will not be due on demand, nor callable, within 12 months from March 31, 2016. This classification is consistent with ASC 210-10, "Balance Sheet" and 470-10, "Debt" and the FASB ASC Master Glossary definition of "Current Liabilities." ASC 210-10 and the FASB ASC Master Glossary define current liabilities as follows: The term current liabilities is used principally to designate obligations whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require the use of existing resources properly classifiable as current assets, or the creation of other current liabilities. As a balance sheet category, the classification is intended to include obligations for items which have entered into the operating cycle, such as payables incurred in the acquisition of materials and supplies to be used in the production of goods or in providing services to be offered for sale; collections received in advance of the delivery of goods or performance of services; and debts that arise from operations directly related to the operating cycle, such as accruals for wages, salaries, commissions, rentals, royalties, and income and other taxes. Other liabilities whose regular and ordinary liquidation is expected to occur within a relatively short period of time, usually twelve months, are also intended for inclusion, such as short-term debts arising from the acquisition of capital assets, serial maturities of long-term obligations, amounts required to be expended within one year under sinking fund provisions, and agency obligations arising from the collection or acceptance of cash or other assets for the account of third persons. 31 Index ASC 470-10 provides the following: The current liability classification is also intended to include obligations that, by their terms, are due on demand or will be due on demand within one year (or operating cycle, if longer) from the balance sheet date, even though liquidation may not be expected within that period. It is also intended to include long-term obligations that are or will be callable by the creditor either because the debtor's violation of a provision of the debt agreement at the balance sheet date makes the obligation callable or because the violation, if not cured within a specified grace period, will make the obligation callable. If, pursuant to the terms of the Public Preferred Stock, we do not redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the scheduled redemptions described above, the terms of the Public Preferred Stock require us to discharge our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as soon as we are financially capable and legally permitted to do so. Therefore, by its very terms, the Public Preferred Stock is not due on demand or callable for failure to make a scheduled payment pursuant to its redemption provisions and is properly classified as a noncurrent liability. We pay dividends on the Public Preferred Stock when and if declared by the Board of Directors. The Public Preferred Stock accrues a semi-annual dividend at the annual rate of 12% ($1.20) per share, based on the liquidation preference of $10 per share and is fully cumulative. Dividends in additional shares of the Public Preferred Stock for 1990 and 1991 were paid at the rate of 6% of a share for each $.60 of such dividends not paid in cash. For the cash dividends payable since December 1, 1995, we have accrued $93.0 million and $92.1 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. We accrued dividends on the Public Preferred Stock of $1.0 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, which was recorded as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10 on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' accumulated deficit. The carrying value of the accrued Paid-in-Kind ("PIK") dividends on the Public Preferred Stock for the period 1992 through June 1995 was $4.0 million. Had we accrued such dividends on a cash basis for this time period, the total amount accrued would have been $15.1 million. However, as a result of the redemption of the 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock in November 1998, such amounts were reduced and adjusted to $3.5 million and $13.4 million, respectively. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, Section 2(a) states, "Any dividends payable with respect to the Exchangeable Preferred Stock ("Public Preferred Stock") during the first six years after the Effective Date (November 20, 1989) may be paid (subject to restrictions under applicable state law), in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, in cash or by issuing additional fully paid and nonassessable shares of Exchangeable Preferred Stock ". Accordingly, the Board had the discretion to pay the dividends for the referenced period in cash or by the issuance of additional shares of Public Preferred Stock. During the period in which we stated our intent to pay PIK dividends, we stated our intention to amend our Charter to permit such payment by the issuance of additional shares of Public Preferred Stock. In consequence, as required by applicable accounting requirements, the accrual for these dividends was recorded at the estimated fair value (as the average of the ask and bid prices) on the dividend date of the shares of Public Preferred Stock that would have been (but were not) issued. This accrual was $9.9 million lower than the accrual would be if the intent was only to pay the dividend in cash, at that date or any later date. In May 2006, the Board concluded that the accrual of PIK dividends for the period 1992 through June 1995 was no longer appropriate. Since 1995, we have disclosed in the footnotes to our audited financial statements the carrying value of the accrued PIK dividends on the Public Preferred Stock for the period 1992 through June 1995 as $4.0 million, and that had we accrued cash dividends during this time period, the total amount accrued would have been $15.1 million. As stated above, such amounts were reduced and adjusted to $3.5 million and $13.4 million, respectively, due to the redemption of 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock in November 1998. On May 12, 2006, the Board voted to confirm that our intent with respect to the payment of dividends on the Public Preferred Stock for this period changed from its previously stated intent to pay PIK dividends to that of an intent to pay cash dividends. We therefore changed the accrual from $3.5 million to $13.4 million, the result of which was to increase our negative shareholder equity by the $9.9 million difference between those two amounts, by recording an additional $9.9 million charge to interest expense for the second quarter of 2006, resulting in a balance of $124.9 million and $123.9 million for the principal amount and all accrued dividends on the Public Preferred Stock as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. This action is considered a change in assumption that results in a change in accounting estimate as defined in ASC 250-10, which sets forth guidance concerning accounting changes and error corrections. 32 Index Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 as filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016.