Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth in the risk factors section included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC. General Our goal is to deliver superior IT solutions that meet or exceed our customers' expectations. We focus on secure enterprise solutions that address the unique requirements of the federal government, the military, and the intelligence community, as well as commercial enterprises that require secure solutions. Our IT solutions consist of the following: Cyber Operations and Defense: o Cyber Security Solutions and services that assure the security of our customers' information, systems, and networks, including the Xacta IA Manager suite for IT governance, risk management, and compliance. Our information and cyber security consulting services include security assessments, digital forensics, and continuous compliance monitoring. o Secure Mobility Design, engineering and delivery of secure solutions that empower the mobile and deployed workforce in business and government. Our solutions protect sensitive communication while delivering voice, data, and video at the point of work in classified and unclassified environments. Identity Management Solutions that establish trusted identities in order to ensure authenticated physical access to offices, workstations, and other facilities; secure digital access to databases, host systems, and other IT resources; and protect people and organizations against insider threats. IT and Enterprise Solutions We have the experience with solution development and global integration to meet the requirements of business and government enterprises with secure IT solutions, from organizational messaging and data visualization to network construction and management. Backlog Funded backlog as of September 30, 2017 and 2016 was $92.5 million and $75.4 million, respectively. Funded backlog was $59.7 million at December 31, 2016. Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Telos Corporation and its subsidiaries including Ubiquity.com, Inc., Xacta Corporation, and Teloworks, Inc., all of whose issued and outstanding share capital is owned directly or indirectly by Telos Corporation (collectively, the "Company" or "Telos" or "We"). We have also consolidated the results of operations of Telos ID (see Note 2 Non-controlling Interests). All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Our operating cycle involves many types of solution, product and service contracts with varying delivery schedules. Accordingly, results of a particular quarter, or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of recorded sales and operating profits, may not be indicative of future operating results and the following comparative analysis should therefore be viewed in such context. 27 Table of Contents We provide different solutions and are party to contracts of varying revenue types under the NETCENTS (Network-Centric Solutions) and NETCENTS-2 contracts to the U.S. Air Force. NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") and government-wide acquisition contracts ("GWAC"), therefore any government customer may utilize the NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 vehicles to meet its purchasing needs. Consequently, revenue earned on the underlying NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 delivery orders varies from period to period according to the customer and solution mix for the products and services delivered during a particular period, unlike a standalone contract with one separately identified customer. The contracts themselves do not fund any orders and they state that the contracts are for an indefinite delivery and indefinite quantity. The majority of our task/delivery orders have periods of performance of less than 12 months, which contributes to the variances between interim and annual reporting periods. The period of performance for the original NETCENTS contract ended on September 30, 2013. Previously awarded task orders that contain periods of performance that extended past September 30, 2013, including exercisable option years under existing task orders, were not affected by the contract expiration. We were selected for an award on the NETCENTS replacement contract, NETCENTS-2 Network Operations and Infrastructure Solutions Small Business Companion, on March 27, 2014. Although no protest was filed over the Telos contract award, protests filed by other bidders resulted in a recommendation by the Government Accountability Office ("GAO") that the U.S. Air Force re-evaluate proposals and make a new source selection decision. Subsequent to the Air Force's reevaluation of the NETCENTS-2 procurement related to the protests, we were selected for an award on April 3, 2015 and the contract was opened for issuance of new orders in May 2015. We have also been awarded other IDIQ/GWACs, including the Department of Homeland Security's EAGLE II and blanket purchase agreements under our GSA schedule. However, we have not been awarded significant delivery orders under EAGLE II. On August 31, 2015, we were notified that we were not awarded the re-compete of a contract within our IT and Enterprise Solutions (formerly Secure Communications) area for a government agency. The contract had a total funded value of over $45 million over the prior three years and accounted for approximately 11% of revenue for 2015. We filed a protest of the award with the Court of Federal Claims, which entered a final order denying the protest on February 29, 2016. On March 4, 2016, we filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, appealing the decision of the Court of Federal Claims, and the appellate court affirmed the judgement of the lower court on December 13, 2016. We continued to perform under the contract through the period of performance, which ended on May 22, 2016. On October 13, 2016, we were notified that we were not awarded the re-compete of a contract within our Cyber Operations & Defense area for a government agency that we had bid as part of a joint venture. The contract had a total funded value of over $22 million over the prior three years and accounted for approximately 6% of revenue for 2016. The joint venture filed a protest of the award to another bidder with the GAO on October 24, 2016, which denied the protest on February 2, 2017. The joint venture then filed a claim with United States Court of Federal Claims ("COFC") on February 10, 2017, together with a motion seeking to stay and enjoin the transition of the contract. The COFC denied the requests for injunctive relief on February 14, 2017, but initiated a one-month extension on the current contract so as to allow the Court to address the joint venture's protest, hold a hearing and issue a decision in advance of any final contract transition. On April 27, 2017, the COFC issued a final decision in favor of the government. The period of performance on the contract ended on May 2, 2017. The U.S. Government has not yet passed an appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018 (the U.S. Government's fiscal year begins on October 1 and ends on September 30). On September 8, 2017, however, the U.S. Government passed a continuing resolution funding measure to finance all U.S. Government activities through December 8, 2017. Under this continuing resolution, partial-year funding at amounts consistent with appropriated levels for fiscal year 2017 are available, subject to certain restrictions, but new spending initiatives are not authorized. Our key programs continue to be supported and funded despite the continuing resolution financing mechanism. During periods covered by continuing resolutions or until the regular appropriation bills are passed, however, we may experience delays in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and those delays may affect our results of operations. In May 2017, the President submitted a budget proposal for fiscal year 2018 to Congress, which includes a base budget for the Department of Defense ("DoD") of $575 billion, approximately $52 billion above the spending limits established under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the Budget Control Act) (described below) and an increase of $32 billion over the fiscal year 2017 funding level. The President's budget requests also include funding of $65 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) / Global War on Terror (GWOT), which is not subject to the Budget Control Act spending limits. Congress must approve or revise the President's 2018 budget proposals through enactment of appropriations bills and other policy legislation, which would then require final Presidential approval. 28 Table of Contents Both the House and Senate have passed versions of the 2018 National Defense Authorization bills, which establish funding levels for the agencies responsible for defense and set forth how the funds will be used. Each of these proposals reflects significant increases over the President's $575 billion request. These two positions must now be reconciled in conference. It remains uncertain which measures will be adopted in the final National Defense Authorization Act and when an appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018 will be enacted or at what levels. Currently, U.S. defense spending through fiscal year 2021 remains subject to statutory spending limits established by the Budget Control Act. The spending limits were modified for fiscal years 2013 through 2017 by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. These acts, however, did not provide relief to the spending limits beyond fiscal year 2017. If Congress approves the President's budget proposal or other appropriation legislation with funding levels that exceed the spending limits, automatic across-the-board spending reductions, known as sequestration, would be triggered to reduce funding back to the spending limits. As currently enacted, the Budget Control Act limits defense spending to $522 billion for fiscal year 2018 with modest increases of about 2.5% per year through 2021. The President's budget proposal as well as defense budget estimates for fiscal year 2018 and beyond exceeds the spending limits established by the Budget Control Act. As a result, continued budget uncertainty and the risk of future sequestration cuts remain unless the Budget Control Act is repealed or significantly modified. Our programs could be materially reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of the U.S. Government's continuing assessment of priorities, changes in government priorities, the implementation of sequestration (particularly in those circumstances where sequestration is implemented across-the-board without regard to national priorities), or other budget cuts in lieu of sequestration. In March 2017, the outstanding debt of the U.S. reached the debt borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling. To avoid exceeding the debt ceiling, the U.S. Department of Treasury began employing measures to finance the U.S. Government. On September 8, 2017, Congress passed legislation suspending the debt ceiling through December 8, 2017. Effective on December 9, 2017, the debt limit will be increased to the amount of debt the government holds outstanding on that date. Despite using cash on hand and measures employed by the Department of Treasury, however, the debt ceiling is expected to be reached again in early 2018. Congress will need to raise the debt limit in order for the U.S. Government to continue borrowing money before these measures are exhausted. If the debt ceiling is not raised, the U.S. Government may not be able to pay for expenditures or fulfill its funding obligations and there could be significant disruption to all discretionary programs. Although we believe that key defense, intelligence and homeland security programs would receive priority, the effect on individual programs or Telos cannot be predicted at this time. We anticipate there will continue to be a significant amount of debate and negotiations within the U.S. Government over defense spending and the debt ceiling. In the context of these negotiations, it is possible that existing cuts to government programs could be kept in place, replaced with different spending cuts, and/or replaced with a package of broader reforms to reduce the federal deficit. 29 Table of Contents The principal element of the Company's operating expenses as a percentage of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (unaudited) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales 67.2 73.6 65.4 68.2 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 32.9 21.2 38.2 28.0 Operating (loss) income (0.1) 5.2 (3.6) 3.8 Other income --- --- --- --- Interest expense (6.1) (2.5) (6.9) (3.8) (Loss) income before income taxes (6.2) 2.7 (10.5) -- Provision for income taxes (0.7) (0.3) (0.7) (0.2) Net (loss) income (6.9) 2.4 (11.2) (0.2) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (3.8) (2.6) (2.0) (2.5) Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation (10.7)% (0.2)% (13.2)% (2.7)% Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Revenue decreased by 48.6% to $28.3 million for the third quarter of 2017, from $54.9 million for the same period in 2016. Services revenue decreased to $19.1 million for the third quarter of 2017 from $43.5 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in sales of $22.8 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables due primarily to a significant contract delivery in the prior year that was not repeated in the current year and to us not being awarded a re-competed contract with a government agency as discussed above, $2.4 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security deliverables, offset by an increase in sales of $0.7 million of Identity Management solutions and $0.1 million of IT & Enterprise solutions. The change in product and services revenue varies from period to period depending on the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions, as well as the timing of deliverables. Product revenue decreased to $9.1 million for the third quarter of 2017 from $11.5 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in resold product sales of $1.9 million of Identity Management solutions, $1.5 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security proprietary software deliverables, offset by an increase in sales of $1.1 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility resold product sales. Cost of sales decreased to $19.0 million for the third quarter of 2017 from $40.4 million for the same period in 2016, primarily due to decreases in revenue of $26.7 million, coupled with a decreased cost of sales as a percentage of revenue of 6.3%. Cost of sales for services decreased by $21.2 million, and as a percentage of services revenue decreased by 13.2%, due to a change in the mix of the programs and timing of certain Telos-installed solutions in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables. Cost of sales for products decreased by $0.2 million, and as a percentage of product revenue increased by 13.9% due primarily to a decrease in proprietary software sales which carry lower cost of sales and an increase in lower margin resold product sales. The decrease in cost of sales is not necessarily indicative of a trend as the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions can vary from period to period, and further can be affected by the timing of deliverables. Gross profit decreased to $9.3 million for the third quarter of 2017 from $14.5 million for the same period in 2016. Gross margin increased to 32.8% in the third quarter of 2017, from 26.4% for the same period in 2016. Services gross margin increased to 36.3% from 23.0% in 2016, and product gross margin decreased to 25.5% in 2017 from 39.4% in 2016, due primarily to a change in program mix during the period as noted above. 30 Table of Contents Selling, general, and administrative expense (SG&A) decreased by 20.3% to $9.3 million for the third quarter of 2017, from $11.7 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in accrued bonuses of $2.1 million, labor costs of $0.1 million, and the capitalization of software development costs of $0.3 million, offset by an increase in outside services of $0.2 million. Operating loss was $34,000 for the third quarter of 2017, compared to operating income of $2.9 million for the same period in 2016, due primarily to a decrease in gross profit as noted above. Interest expense increased by 26.1% to $1.7 million for the third quarter of 2017, from $1.4 million for the same period in 2016, primarily due to an increase in interest on the EnCap senior term loan. Income tax provision was $211,000 for the third quarter of 2017, compared to $158,000 for the same period in 2016, which is based on the estimated annual effective tax rate applied to the pretax loss incurred for the quarter, based on our expectation of pretax loss for the fiscal year. Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation was $3.0 million for the third quarter of 2017, compared to $0.1 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to the increase in operating loss for the quarter as discussed above. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Revenue decreased by 33.4% to $72.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $108.8 million in the same period in 2016. Services revenue decreased to $57.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $91.3 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in sales of $29.3 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables, including a significant contract delivery in the prior year that was not repeated in the current year and a decline related to us not being awarded a re-competed contract with a government agency as discussed above, $4.6 million of IT & Enterprise solutions due primarily to us not being awarded a re-competed contract with a government agency as discussed above, and $0.8 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security deliverables, offset by an increase in sales of $0.8 million of Identity Management solutions. The change in product and services revenue varies from period to period depending on the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions, as well as the timing of deliverables. Product revenue decreased to $15.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $17.5 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in resold product sales of $3.0 million of Identity Management solutions and $1.6 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security proprietary software deliverables, offset by increases in sales of $1.3 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility resold product sales, and $1.0 million of IT & Enterprise solutions. Cost of sales decreased to $47.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $74.2 million for the same period in 2016, primarily due to decreases in revenue of $36.4 million, coupled with a decreased cost of sales as a percentage of revenue of 2.9%. Cost of sales for services decreased by $26.5 million, and as a percentage of services revenue decreased by 4.8%, due to a change in the mix of the programs and timing of certain Telos-installed solutions in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables. Cost of sales for products decreased by $0.4 million, and as a percentage of product revenue increased by 6.7% due primarily to a decrease in proprietary software sales which carry lower cost of sales and an increase in lower margin resold product sales. The decrease in cost of sales is not necessarily indicative of a trend as the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions can vary from period to period, and further can be affected by the timing of deliverables. Gross profit decreased to $25.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $34.6 million compared to the same period in 2016, due primarily to the change in the mix of the solutions sold as discussed above. Gross margin increased to 34.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, from 31.8% in the same period in 2016. SG&A expense decreased by 9.0% to $27.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 from $30.4 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in accrued bonuses of $2.3 million, amortization of intangible assets of $1.1 million, and the capitalization of software development costs of $1.1 million, offset by an increase in outside services of $1.5 million and labor costs of $0.2 million. Operating loss was $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to operating income of $4.2 million for the same period in 2016, due primarily to a decrease in gross profit as noted above. 31 Table of Contents Interest expense increased by 20.4% to $5.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, from $4.1 million for the same period in 2016, primarily due to an increase in interest on the EnCap senior term loan. Income tax provision was $529,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $181,000 for the same period in 2016, which is based on the estimated annual effective tax rate applied to the pretax loss for the nine month period, adjusted for the income tax provision previously provided, based on our expectation of pretax loss for the fiscal year. Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation was $9.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $2.9 million for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to the increase in operating loss as discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As described in Note 5 Current Liabilities and Debt Obligations, we maintain a Credit Agreement with EnCap, a Purchase Agreement with RCA and a Financing Agreement with Action Capital. The willingness of RCA to purchase our accounts receivable under the Purchase Agreement and of Action Capital to make advances under the Financing Agreement, and our ability to obtain additional financing, may be limited due to various factors, including the eligibility of our receivables, the status of our business, global credit market conditions, and perceptions of our business or industry by EnCap, RCA, Action Capital, or other potential sources of financing. If we are unable to maintain the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement, we would need to obtain additional credit to fund our future operations. If credit is available in that event, lenders may impose more restrictive terms and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity, increase our costs, or reduce our operating flexibility. The failure to maintain, extend, renew or replace the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement with a comparable arrangement or arrangements that provide similar amounts of liquidity for the Company would have a material negative impact on our overall liquidity, financial and operating results. While a variety of factors related to sources and uses of cash, such as timeliness of accounts receivable collections, vendor credit terms, or significant collateral requirements, ultimately impact our liquidity, such factors may or may not have a direct impact on our liquidity, based on how the transactions associated with such circumstances impact our availability under our credit arrangements. For example, a contractual requirement to post collateral for a duration of several months, depending on the materiality of the amount, could have an immediate negative effect on our liquidity, as such a circumstance would utilize cash resources without a near-term cash inflow back to us. Likewise, the release of such collateral could have a corresponding positive effect on our liquidity, as it would represent an addition to our cash resources without any corresponding near-term cash outflow. Similarly, a slow-down of payments from a customer, group of customers or government payment office would not have an immediate and direct effect on our availability unless the slowdown was material in amount and over an extended period of time. Any of these examples would have an impact on our cash resources, our financing arrangements, and therefore our liquidity. Management may determine that, in order to reduce capital and liquidity requirements, planned spending on capital projects and indirect expense growth may be curtailed, subject to growth in operating results. Additionally, management may seek to put in place a credit facility with a commercial bank, although no assurance can be given that such a facility could be put in place under terms acceptable to the Company. Should management determine that additional capital is required, management would likely look first to the sources of funding discussed above to meet any requirements, although no assurances can be given that these investors would be able to invest or that the Company and the investors would agree upon terms for such investments. Our working capital was $(5.4) million and $(8.6) million as of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Although no assurances can be given, we expect that our financing arrangements with EnCap, RCA and Action Capital, collectively, are sufficient to maintain the liquidity we require to meet our operating, investing and financing needs for the next 12 months. Cash used in operating activities was $2.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $14.2 million cash provided in operating activities for the same period in 2016. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is primarily driven by the Company's operating income, the timing of receipt of customer payments, the timing of its payments to vendors and employees, and the timing of inventory turnover, adjusted for certain non-cash items that do not impact cash flows from operating activities. Additionally, net loss was $8.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. 32 Table of Contents Cash used in investing activities was approximately $1.6 million and $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, due primarily to the capitalization of software development costs of $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, and the purchase of property and equipment. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $4.1 million, compared to $11.6 million cash used in financing activities for the same period in 2016, primarily attributable to the proceeds of $9.4 million from the EnCap senior term loan, offset by distribution of $2.6 million to the Telos ID Class B member, and the redemption of $2.1 million senior preferred stock for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to net repayments of $8.5 million to the Facility (as defined below) and distribution of $1.3 million to Telos ID Class B member for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Additionally, our capital structure consists of redeemable preferred stock and common stock. The capital structure is complex and requires an understanding of the terms of the instruments, certain restrictions on scheduled payments and redemptions of the various instruments, and the interrelationship of the instruments especially as it relates to the subordination hierarchy. Therefore, a thorough understanding of how our capital structure impacts our liquidity is necessary and accordingly we have disclosed the relevant information about each instrument as follows: Enlightenment Capital Credit Agreement On January 25, 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Enlightenment Capital Solutions Fund II, L.P., as agent (the "Agent"), and the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), (together referenced as "EnCap"). The Credit Agreement provides for an $11 million senior term loan (the "Loan") with a maturity date of January 25, 2022, subject to acceleration in the event of customary events of default. All borrowings under the Credit Agreement will accrue interest at the rate of 13.0% per annum (the "Accrual Rate"). If, at the request of the Company, the Agent executes an intercreditor agreement with another senior lender under which the Agent and the Lenders subordinate their liens on the Company's and the Guarantor's collateral (an "Alternative Interest Rate Event"), the interest rate will increase to 14.5% per annum. After the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, the interest rate will increase 2.0%. The Company is obligated to pay accrued interest in cash on a monthly basis at a rate of not less than 10.0% per annum or, during the continuance of an Alternate Interest Rate Event, 11.5% per annum. The Company may elect to pay the remaining interest in cash, by payment-in-kind (by addition to the principal amount of the Loan) or by combination of cash and payment-in-kind. Upon thirty days prior written notice, the Company may prepay any portion or the entire amount of the Loan. An amount of approximately $1.1 million was netted from the proceeds on the Loan as a prepayment of all interest due and payable at the Accrual Rate during the period from January 25, 2017 to October 31, 2017. A separate fee letter executed by the Company and the Agent, dated January 25, 2017, sets forth the fees payable to the Agent in connection with the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains representations, warranties, covenants, terms and conditions customary for transactions of this type. In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Agent has been granted, for the benefit of the Lenders, a security interest in and general lien upon various property of the Company and the Guarantors, subject to certain permitted liens and any intercreditor agreement. The occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement could result in the Loan and other obligations becoming immediately due and payable and allow the Lenders to exercise all rights and remedies available to them under the Credit Agreement or as a secured party under the UCC, in addition to all other rights and remedies available to them. While we did not earn sufficient revenue to meet the revenue covenant in Section 7.15(d) of the Credit Agreement, the Lenders agreed to waive our compliance with the covenant and consequently, as of September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with the Credit Agreement's financial covenants. 33 Table of Contents In connection with the Credit Agreement, on January 25, 2017, the Company issued warrants (each, a "Warrant") to Agent and certain of the Lenders representing in the aggregate the right to purchase in accordance with their terms 1,135,284.333 shares of the Class A Common Stock of the Company, no par value per share, which is equivalent to approximately 2.5% of the common equity interests of the Company on a fully diluted basis. The exercise price is $1.321 per share and each Warrant expires on January 25, 2027. The value of the warrants were determined to be de minimis and no value was allocated to them on a relative fair value basis in accounting for the debt instrument. Effective February 23, 2017, the Credit Agreement was amended to change the required timing of certain post-closing items, to allow for more time to complete the legal and administrative requirements around such items. On April 18, 2017, the Credit Agreement was further amended (the "Second Amendment") to incorporate the parties' agreement to subordinate certain debt owed by the Company to the affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (the "Subordinated Debt") and to redeem all outstanding shares of the Series A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock and the Series A-2 Redeemable Preferred Stock, including those owned by Mr. John R.C. Porter and his affiliates, for an aggregate redemption price of $2.1 million. In connection with the Second Amendment and that subordination of debt, on April 18, 2017, we also entered into Subordination and Intercreditor Agreements (the "Intercreditor Agreements") with affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (together referenced as "Porter"), in which Porter agreed that the Subordinated Debt is fully subordinated to the amended Credit Agreement and related documents, and that required payments, if any, under the Subordinated Debt are permitted only if certain conditions are met. The Credit Agreement also includes an $825,000 exit fee, which is payable upon any repayment or prepayment of the loan. This amount has been included in the total principal due and treated as an unamortized discount on the debt, which will be amortized over the term of the loan, using the effective interest method at a rate of 15.0%. We incurred fees and transaction costs of approximately $374,000 related to the issuance of the Credit Agreement, which are being amortized over the life of the Credit Agreement. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $0.4 million and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, on the Credit Agreement. Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement On July 15, 2016, we entered into an Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Republic Capital Access, LLC ("RCA" or "Buyer"), pursuant to which we may offer for sale, and RCA, in its sole discretion, may purchase, eligible accounts receivable relating to U.S. government prime contracts or subcontracts of the Company (collectively, the "Purchased Receivables"). Upon purchase, RCA becomes the absolute owner of any such Purchased Receivables, which are payable directly to RCA, subject to certain repurchase obligations of the Company. The total amount of Purchased Receivables is subject to a maximum limit of $10 million of outstanding Purchased Receivables (the "Maximum Amount") at any given time. The Purchase Agreement has an initial term expiring on June 30, 2018 and automatically renews for successive 12-month renewal periods unless terminated in writing by either the Company or RCA. The initial purchase price of a Purchased Receivable is equal to 90% of the face value of the receivable if the account debtor is an agency of the U.S. government, and 85% if the account debtor is not an agency of the U.S. government; provided, however, that RCA has the right to adjust these initial purchase price rates in its sole discretion. After collection by RCA of the portion of a Purchased Receivable in excess of the initial purchase price, RCA shall pay the Company the residual 10% or 15% of such Purchased Receivable, as appropriate, less (i) a discount factor equal to 0.30%, for federal government prime contracts (or 0.56% for non-federal government investment grade account obligors or 0.62% for non-federal government non-investment grade account obligors) of the face amounts of Purchased Receivables; (ii) a program access fee equal to 0.008% of the daily ending account balance for each day that Purchased Receivable are outstanding; (iii) a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum of Maximum Amount minus the amount of Purchased Receivables outstanding; and (iv) fees, costs and expenses relating to the preparation, administration and enforcement of the Purchase Agreement and any other related agreements. At the time the Purchase Agreement was signed, the Company received proceeds in an amount equal to $6.3 million, net of an initial enrollment fee equal to $25,000. Those proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Facility to Wells Fargo as described below. 34 Table of Contents The Purchase Agreement provides that in the event, but only to the extent, that the conveyance of Purchased Receivables by the Company is characterized by a court or other governmental authority as a loan rather than a sale, the Company shall be deemed to have granted RCA, effective as of the date of the first purchase under the Purchase Agreement, a security interest in all of the Company's right, title and interest in, to and under all of the Purchased Receivables, whether now or hereafter owned, existing or arising. The Company provides a power of attorney to RCA to take certain actions in the Company's stead, including (a) to sell, assign or transfer in whole or in part any of the Purchased Receivables; (b) to demand, receive and give releases to any account debtor with respect to amounts due under any Purchased Receivables; (c) to notify all account debtors with respect to the Purchased Receivables; and (d) to take any actions necessary to perfect RCA's interests in the Purchased Receivables. The Company is liable to Buyer for any fraudulent statements and all representations, warranties, covenants, and indemnities made by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement. It is considered an event of default if (a) the Company fails to pay any amounts it owes to RCA when due (subject to a cure period); (b) the Company has voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceedings commenced by or against it; (c) the Company is no longer solvent or is generally not paying its debts as they become due; (d) any voluntary liens, garnishments, attachments, or the like are issued against or attach to the Purchased Receivables; (e) the Company breaches any warranty, representation, or covenant (subject to a cure period); (f) the Company is not in compliance or has otherwise defaulted under any document or obligation in favor of RCA or an RCA affiliate; or (g) the Purchase Agreement or any material provision terminates (other than in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement) or ceases to be effective or to be a binding obligation of the Company. If any such event of default occurs, then RCA may take certain actions, including ceasing to buy any eligible receivables, declaring any indebtedness or other obligations immediately due and payable, or terminating the Purchase Agreement. Financing and Security Agreement On July 15, 2016, we entered into a Financing and Security Agreement (the "Financing Agreement") with Action Capital Corporation ("Action Capital"), pursuant to which Action Capital agreed to provide the Company with advances of up to 90% of the net amount of certain acceptable customer accounts of the Company that have been assigned as collateral to Action Capital (the "Acceptable Accounts"). The maximum outstanding principal amount of advances under the Financing Agreement was $5 million. The Financing Agreement has a term of two years, provided that the Company may terminate it at any time without penalty upon written notice. At the time the Financing Agreement was signed, the Company did not borrow any amounts under the Financing Agreement. The Company shall pay Action Capital interest on the advances outstanding under the Financing Agreement at a rate equal to the prime rate of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in effect on the last business day of the prior month plus 2%, and a monthly fee equal to 0.50%. All interest calculations are based on a year of 360 days. The Company's obligations under the Financing Agreement are secured by certain assets of the Company pertaining to the Acceptable Accounts, including all accounts, accounts receivable, earned and unbilled revenue, contract rights, chattel paper, documents, instruments, general intangibles, reserves, reserve accounts, rebates, books and records, and all proceeds of the foregoing. Pursuant to the terms of the Financing Agreement, Action Capital shall have full recourse against the Company when an Acceptable Account is not paid in full by the respective customer within 90 days of the date of purchase or if for any reason it ceases to be an Acceptable Account, including the right to charge-back any such Acceptable Account. It is considered an event of default if the Company breaches any covenant or warranty, knowingly provides false or incorrect material information to Action Capital, or otherwise defaults on any of its material obligations under the Financing Agreement or any other material agreements with Action Capital (subject to a cure period). If any such events of default occur, then Action Capital may take certain actions, including declaring any indebtedness immediately due and payable, requiring any customers with Acceptable Accounts to make payments directly to Action Capital, exercising its power of attorney from the Company to take actions in the Company's stead with respect to any of Company's Acceptable Accounts, or terminating the Financing Agreement. As of September 30, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Financing Agreement. 35 Table of Contents In connection with the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement, we terminated our revolving credit facility (the "Facility") with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC ("Wells Fargo"), effective as of July 15, 2016, prior to its maturity date of April 1, 2017, and repaid all amounts outstanding under the Facility; other than (1) the obligations of the Company under the Facility and related loan documents with respect to letters of credits and fees, charges, costs and expenses related thereto, (2) the obligations of the Company under the Facility and related loan documents to reimburse Wells Fargo for costs and expenses that may become due and payable after the date of the termination of the Facility, and (3) any customary contingent indemnification obligations. The Company paid an early termination fee of $100,000, and no other early termination fees or prepayment penalties were incurred by the Company in connection with the termination of the Facility. Senior Revolving Credit Facility On March 30, 2016, we amended our Facility with Wells Fargo ("the Seventeenth Amendment") to reduce the total credit available from $20 million to $10 million effective as of the date of the amendment, which more appropriately reflected the Company's projected utilization of the Facility. The Seventeenth Amendment fixed the interest rate at the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 2.25%, the Federal Funds rate plus 2.75%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 3.25%. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $14,000 and $220,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, on the Facility. In consideration for the closing of the Seventeenth Amendment, we paid Wells Fargo a fee of $100,000, plus expenses related to the closing. On July 15, 2016, the outstanding balance under the Facility was paid in full. Subordinated Debt On March 31, 2015, the Company entered into Subordinated Loan Agreements and Subordinated Promissory Notes ("Porter Notes") with affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (together referenced as "Porter"). Mr. Porter and Toxford Corporation, of which Mr. Porter is the sole shareholder, own 34.9% of our Class A Common Stock. Under the terms of the Porter Notes, Porter lent the Company $2.5 million on or about March 31, 2015. Telos also entered into Subordination and Intercreditor Agreements (the "Subordination Agreements") with Porter and Wells Fargo, in which the Porter Notes are fully subordinated to the Facility and any subsequent senior lenders (including Action Capital), and payments under the Porter Notes are permitted only if certain conditions are met. According to the terms of the Porter Notes, the outstanding principal sum bears interest at the fixed rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum which would be payable in arrears in cash on the 20th day of each May, August, November and February, with the first interest payment date due on August 20, 2015. The Porter Notes do not call for amortization payments and are unsecured. The Porter Notes, in whole or in part, may be repaid at any time without premium or penalty. The unpaid principal, together with interest, was originally due and payable in full on July 1, 2017. On April 18, 2017, we amended and restated the Porter Notes to reduce the interest rate from twelve percent (12%) to six percent (6%) per annum, to be accrued, and extended the maturity date from July 1, 2017 to July 25, 2022. Telos also entered into the Intercreditor Agreements with Porter and EnCap, in which the Porter Notes are fully subordinated to the Credit Agreement and any subsequent senior lenders (including Action Capital), and payments under the Porter Notes are permitted only if certain conditions are met. All other terms remain in full force and effect. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $99,000 and $218,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, and $75,000 and $225,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, on the Porter Notes. As a result of the amendment and restatement of the Porter Notes, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $1 million, which consisted of the remeasurement of the debt at fair value. As the extinguishment was with a related party, the transaction was deemed to be a capital transaction and the gain was recorded in the Company's stockholders' deficit as of September 30, 2017. Public Preferred Stock A maximum of 6,000,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, has been authorized for issuance. We initially issued 2,858,723 shares of the Public Preferred Stock pursuant to the acquisition of the Company during fiscal year 1990. The Public Preferred Stock was recorded at fair value on the date of original issue, November 21, 1989, and we made periodic accretions under the interest method of the excess of the redemption value over the recorded value. We adjusted our estimate of accrued accretion in the amount of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2006. The Public Preferred Stock was fully accreted as of December 2008. We declared stock dividends totaling 736,863 shares in 1990 and 1991. Since 1991, no other dividends, in stock or cash, have been declared. In November 1998, we retired 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock. The total number of shares issued and outstanding at September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 3,185,586. The Public Preferred Stock is quoted as TLSRP on the OTCQB marketplace and the OTC Bulletin Board. 36 Table of Contents Since 1991, no dividends were declared or paid on our Public Preferred Stock, based upon our interpretation of restrictions in our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, limitations in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock instrument, specific dividend payment restrictions in the Credit Agreement and the Porter Notes to which the Public Preferred Stock is subject, other senior obligations currently or previously in existence, and Maryland law limitations in existence prior to October 1, 2009. Subsequent to the 2009 Maryland law change, dividend payments continue to be prohibited except under certain specific circumstances as set forth in Maryland Code Section 2-311, which the Company did not satisfy as of the measurement dates. Pursuant to the terms of the Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were scheduled, but not required, to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in five annual tranches during the period 2005 through 2009. However, due to our substantial senior obligations currently or previously in existence, limitations set forth in the covenants in the Credit Agreement and the Porter Notes, foreseeable capital and operational requirements, and restrictions and prohibitions of our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were and remain unable to meet the redemption schedule set forth in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock as of the measurement dates. Moreover, the Public Preferred Stock is not payable on demand, nor callable, for failure to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the redemption schedule set forth in the instrument. Therefore, we classify these securities as noncurrent liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. On January 25, 2017, we became parties with certain of our subsidiaries to the Credit Agreement with EnCap. Under the Credit Agreement, we agreed that, until full and final payment of the obligations under the Credit Agreement, we would not make any distribution or declare or pay any dividends (other than common stock) on our stock, or purchase, acquire, or redeem any stock, or exchange any stock for indebtedness, or retire any stock. Additionally, the Porter Notes contain similar prohibitions on dividend payments or stock redemptions. Accordingly, as stated above, we will continue to classify the entirety of our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as a long-term obligation. The Credit Agreement and the Porter Notes prohibit, among other things, the redemption of any stock, common or preferred, other than as described above. The Public Preferred Stock by its terms also cannot be redeemed if doing so would violate the terms of an agreement regarding the borrowing of funds or the extension of credit which is binding upon us or any of our subsidiaries, and it does not include any other provisions that would otherwise require any acceleration of the redemption of or amortization payments with respect to the Public Preferred Stock. Thus, the Public Preferred Stock is not and will not be due on demand, nor callable, within 12 months from September 30, 2017. This classification is consistent with ASC 210-10, "Balance Sheet" and 470-10, "Debt" and the FASB ASC Master Glossary definition of "Current Liabilities." ASC 210-10 and the FASB ASC Master Glossary define current liabilities as follows: The term current liabilities is used principally to designate obligations whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require the use of existing resources properly classifiable as current assets, or the creation of other current liabilities. As a balance sheet category, the classification is intended to include obligations for items which have entered into the operating cycle, such as payables incurred in the acquisition of materials and supplies to be used in the production of goods or in providing services to be offered for sale; collections received in advance of the delivery of goods or performance of services; and debts that arise from operations directly related to the operating cycle, such as accruals for wages, salaries, commissions, rentals, royalties, and income and other taxes. Other liabilities whose regular and ordinary liquidation is expected to occur within a relatively short period of time, usually twelve months, are also intended for inclusion, such as short-term debts arising from the acquisition of capital assets, serial maturities of long-term obligations, amounts required to be expended within one year under sinking fund provisions, and agency obligations arising from the collection or acceptance of cash or other assets for the account of third persons. ASC 470-10 provides the following: The current liability classification is also intended to include obligations that, by their terms, are due on demand or will be due on demand within one year (or operating cycle, if longer) from the balance sheet date, even though liquidation may not be expected within that period. It is also intended to include long-term obligations that are or will be callable by the creditor either because the debtor's violation of a provision of the debt agreement at the balance sheet date makes the obligation callable or because the violation, if not cured within a specified grace period, will make the obligation callable. 37 Table of Contents If, pursuant to the terms of the Public Preferred Stock, we do not redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the scheduled redemptions described above, the terms of the Public Preferred Stock require us to discharge our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as soon as we are financially capable and legally permitted to do so. Therefore, by its very terms, the Public Preferred Stock is not due on demand or callable for failure to make a scheduled payment pursuant to its redemption provisions and is properly classified as a noncurrent liability. We pay dividends on the Public Preferred Stock when and if declared by the Board of Directors. The Public Preferred Stock accrues a semi-annual dividend at the annual rate of 12% ($1.20) per share, based on the liquidation preference of $10 per share and is fully cumulative. Dividends in additional shares of the Public Preferred Stock for 1990 and 1991 were paid at the rate of 6% of a share for each $.60 of such dividends not paid in cash. For the cash dividends payable since December 1, 1995, we have accrued $98.8 million and $95.9 million as of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. We accrued dividends on the Public Preferred Stock of $1.0 million and $2.9 million for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which was recorded as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10 on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' accumulated deficit. Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock was senior to all other outstanding equity of the Company, including the Public Preferred Stock. The Series A-1 ranked on a parity with the Series A-2. The components of the authorized Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock were 1,250 shares of Series A-1 and 1,750 shares of Series A-2 Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, each with $.01 par value. The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock carried a cumulative per annum dividend rate of 14.125% of its liquidation value of $1,000 per share. The dividends were payable semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each year. We had not declared dividends on our Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock since its issuance, other than in connection with the redemptions from 2010 to 2013. The liquidation preference of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock was the face amount of the Series A-1 and A-2 ($1,000 per share), plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. Due to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Porter Notes, other senior obligations currently or previously in existence, the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and applicable provisions of Maryland law governing the payment of distributions, we had been precluded from redeeming the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and paying any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, other than the redemptions that occurred from 2010 to 2013. In addition, certain holders of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock had entered into standby agreements whereby, among other things, those holders would not demand any payments in respect of dividends or redemptions of their instruments and the maturity dates of the instruments had been extended. As a result of such standby agreements, as of December 31, 2016, instruments held by Toxford Corporation ("Toxford"), the holder of 76.4% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, would mature on May 31, 2018. At December 31, 2016, the total number of shares of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock issued and outstanding was 197 shares and 276 shares for Series A-1 and Series A-2, respectively. At December 31, 2016, cumulative undeclared, unpaid dividends relating to the Senior Redeemable Preferred stock totaled $1.6 million. We accrued dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock of $20,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, and $17,000 and $50,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, which were reported as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10, "Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity," on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' deficit. In accordance with the requirements of the Second Amendment to the EnCap Credit Agreement, we redeemed all outstanding shares of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock on April 18, 2017 for $2.1 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 as filed with the SEC on March 30, 2017. 38 Table of Contents