Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth in the risk factors section included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as filed with the SEC. General Our goal is to deliver superior IT solutions that meet or exceed our customers' expectations. We focus on secure enterprise solutions that address the unique requirements of the federal government, the military, and the intelligence community, as well as commercial enterprises that require secure solutions. Our IT solutions consist of the following: Cyber Operations and Defense: o Cyber Security Solutions and services that assure the security of our customers' information, systems, and networks, including the Xacta IA Manager suite for IT governance, risk management, and compliance. Our information and cyber security consulting services include security assessments, digital forensics, and continuous compliance monitoring. o Secure Mobility Design, engineering and delivery of secure solutions that empower the mobile and deployed workforce in business and government. Our solutions protect sensitive communication while delivering voice, data, and video at the point of work in classified and unclassified environments. Identity Management Solutions that establish trusted identities in order to ensure authenticated physical access to offices, workstations, and other facilities; secure digital access to databases, host systems, and other IT resources; and protect people and organizations against insider threats. IT and Enterprise Solutions We have the experience with solution development and global integration to meet the requirements of business and government enterprises with secure IT solutions, from organizational messaging and data visualization to network construction and management. Backlog Funded backlog as of September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $62.9 million and $53.8 million, respectively. Funded backlog was $59.2 million at December 31, 2015. Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Telos Corporation and its subsidiaries including Ubiquity.com, Inc., Xacta Corporation, and Teloworks, Inc., all of whose issued and outstanding share capital is owned by Telos Corporation (collectively, the "Company" or "Telos" or "We"). We have also consolidated the results of operations of Telos ID (see Note 2 Non-controlling Interests). All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Our operating cycle involves many types of solutions, product and service contracts with varying delivery schedules. Accordingly, results of a particular quarter, or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of recorded sales and operating profits, may not be indicative of future operating results and the following comparative analysis should therefore be viewed in such context. 27 Index We provide different solutions and are party to contracts of varying revenue types under the NETCENTS (Network-Centric Solutions) and NETCENTS-2 contracts to the U.S. Air Force. NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") and government-wide acquisition contracts ("GWAC"), therefore any government customer may utilize the NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 vehicles to meet its purchasing needs. Consequently, revenue earned on the underlying NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 delivery orders varies from period to period according to the customer and solution mix for the products and services delivered during a particular period, unlike a standalone contract with one separately identified customer. The contracts themselves do not fund any orders and they state that the contracts are for an indefinite delivery and indefinite quantity. The majority of our task/delivery orders have periods of performance of less than 12 months, which contributes to the variances between interim and annual reporting periods. The original NETCENTS contract was awarded in 2004 and has been modified 40 times since that time, including numerous modifications to extend the period of performance. The period of performance for the award of new task orders under the contract ended on September 30, 2013. Previously awarded task orders that contain periods of performance that extended past September 30, 2013, including exercisable option years under existing task orders, were not affected by the contract expiration. We were selected for an award on the NETCENTS replacement contract, NETCENTS-2 Network Operations and Infrastructure Solutions Small Business Companion, on March 27, 2014. Although no protest was filed over the Telos contract award, protests filed by other bidders resulted in a recommendation by the Government Accountability Office ("GAO") that the U.S. Air Force re-evaluate proposals and make a new source selection decision. As a result of the delays in the NETCENTS-2 procurement, some government orders that could have been issued through NETCENTS-2 have been issued through other contract vehicles, under which we were not prime contract awardees. This has contributed to declines in revenues and margins below historical performance levels for 2015. Subsequent to the Air Force's reevaluation of the NETCENTS-2 procurement related to the protests, we were selected for an award on April 3, 2015 and the contract was opened for issuance of new orders in May 2015. While we historically derived a substantial amount of revenue from task/delivery orders under the NETCENTS contract, we have also been awarded other IDIQ/GWACs, including the Department of Homeland Security's EAGLE II and blanket purchase agreements under our GSA schedule. However, we have not been awarded significant delivery orders under EAGLE II due in part to government funding issues for the Department of Homeland Security. On August 31, 2015, we were notified that we were not awarded the re-compete of a contract within our IT & Enterprise Solutions (formerly Secure Communications) area for a government agency. The contract had a total funded value of over $45 million over the prior three years and accounted for approximately 11% of revenue for 2015. We filed a protest of the award with the Court of Federal Claims, which entered a final order denying the protest on February 29, 2016. On March 4, 2016, we filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, appealing the decision of the Court of Federal Claims. The appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit remains pending, with oral arguments scheduled for December 8, 2016. We continued to perform under the contract through the period of performance, which ended on May 22, 2016. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation. In 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011, which established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years 2012-2021. On November 2, 2015, the President signed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 ("BBA") into law. The BBA sets fiscal year 2016 and 2017 DoD spending caps that exceed recent DoD budget funding levels. These spending caps are recognized by both the Executive branch and Congress and are therefore expected to lead to a stable budget process for those two years. In addition, while the spending cap increase does not meet the DoD's original fiscal year 2016 base budget funding request or its planned fiscal year 2017 funding level, it should provide for modest growth in the DoD's modernization budgets for fiscal years 2016 and 2017. 28 Index The principal element of the Company's operating expenses as a percentage of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (unaudited) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales 73.6 74.2 68.2 75.9 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 21.2 24.4 28.0 26.6 Operating income (loss) 5.2 1.4 3.8 (2.5) Other income --- --- --- --- Interest expense (2.5) (4.2) (3.8) (4.5) Income (loss) before income taxes 2.7 (2.8) --- (7.0) (Provision) benefit for income taxes (0.3) 1.8 (0.2) 1.9 Net income (loss) 2.4 (1.0) (0.2) (5.1) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (2.6) (3.2) (2.5) (1.9) Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation (0.2)% (4.2)% (2.7)% (7.0)% Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Revenue increased by 63.2% to $54.9 million for the third quarter of 2016, from $33.7 million for the same period in 2015. Such increase primarily consists of increases in sales under the U.S. Air Force NETCENTS-2 contract. As discussed above, NETCENTS-2 is an IDIQ contract utilized by multiple government customers and sales under NETCENTS-2 varied from period to period according to the solution mix and timing of deliverables for a particular period. Services revenue increased to $43.5 million for the third quarter of 2016 from $23.9 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to increases in sales of $18.7 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables, $3.7 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security deliverables, and $0.6 million of Identity Management solutions, offset by a decrease in sales of $3.4 million of IT & Enterprise solutions. The change in product and services revenue varies from period to period depending on the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions, as well as the timing of deliverables. Product revenue increased to $11.5 million for the third quarter of 2016 from $9.8 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to increases in sales of $1.0 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security proprietary software deliverables, $0.9 million of Identity Management solutions, offset by decreases in sales of $0.2 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables, and $0.1 million of IT & Enterprise solutions. Cost of sales increased by 61.7% to $40.4 million for the third quarter of 2016 from $25.0 million for the same period in 2015, primarily due to increases in revenue of $21.3 million, coupled with a decreased cost of sales as a percentage of revenue of 0.7%. Cost of sales for services increased by $15.7 million, and as a percentage of services revenue increased by 2.5%, due to a change in the mix of the programs and timing of certain Telos-installed solutions in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility, as well as the loss of a contract in IT & Enterprise Solutions. Cost of sales for products decreased by $0.3 million, and as a percentage of product revenue decreased by 13.1%, primarily due to improved product reselling margins. The increase in cost of sales for services is not necessarily indicative of a trend as the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions can vary from period to period, and further can be affected by the timing of deliverables. 29 Index Gross profit increased by 67.6% to $14.5 million for the third quarter of 2016 from $8.7 million for the same period in 2015. Gross margin increased to 26.4% in the third quarter of 2016, from 25.8% for the same period in 2015. Services gross margin decreased to 23.0% from 25.6%, and product gross margin increased to 39.4% from 26.3%, due primarily to a change in program mix during the period as noted above. Selling, general, and administrative expense (SG&A) increased by 42.5% to $11.7 million for the third quarter of 2016, from $8.2 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to increases in accrued bonuses of $2.4 million, labor costs of $1.0 million, and outside services of $0.5 million, bank charges of $0.2 million, offset by a decrease in amortization of other intangible assets of $0.6 million. Operating income was $2.9 million for the third quarter of 2016, compared to $0.5 million for the same period in 2015, due primarily to an increase in gross profit offset by an increase in SG&A as noted above. Interest expense decreased by $78,000 for the third quarter of 2016, primarily due to a decrease in interest on the Facility. Income tax provision was $158,000 for the third quarter of 2016, compared to income tax benefit of $618,000 for the same period in 2015, which is based on the estimated annual effective tax rate applied to the pretax income incurred for the quarter, based on our expectation of pretax loss for the fiscal year. Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation was $0.1 million for the third quarter of 2016, compared to $1.4 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to the increase in operating income for the quarter as discussed above. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Compared with Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Revenue increased by 16.1% to $108.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $93.7 million in the same period in 2015. Such increase primarily consists of increases in sales under the U.S. Air Force NETCENTS contract. As discussed above, NETCENTS is an IDIQ contract utilized by multiple government customers and sales under NETCENTS varied from period to period according to the solution mix and timing of deliverables for a particular period. Services revenue increased to $91.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $74.2 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to increases in sales of $11.0 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables, $9.0 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security deliverables, and $2.4 million of Identity Management solutions, offset by a decrease in sales of $5.3 million of IT & Enterprise solutions. The change in product and services revenue varies from period to period depending on the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions, as well as the timing of deliverables. Product revenue decreased to $17.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $19.5 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to decreases in sales of $2.3 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility deliverables, and $0.3 million of IT & Enterprise solutions, offset by increases in sales of $0.5 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security proprietary software deliverables, $0.1 million of Identity Management solutions. Cost of sales increased by 4.4% to $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $71.1 million for the same period in 2015, due primarily to the increase in revenue. Gross profit increased by 52.8% to $34.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $22.6 million compared to the same period in 2015, due primarily to the change in the mix of the solutions sold as discussed above. Gross margin increased to 31.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, from 24.1% in the same period in 2015. SG&A expense increased 21.7% to $30.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $25.0 million for the same period in 2015, primarily due to increases in accrued bonuses of $2.7 million, labor costs of $2.0 million, outside services of $0.6 million, bank charges of $0.3 million, legal costs of $0.2 million, and trade show expenses of $0.2 million, offset by a decrease in amortization of other intangible assets of $0.6 million. 30 Index Operating income was $4.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to operating loss of $2.4 million for the same period in 2015, due primarily to an increase in gross profit offset by an increase in SG&A as noted above. Interest expense decreased 1.6% to $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, from $4.2 million for the same period in 2015, primarily due to a decrease in interest on the Facility, offset by an increase in interest on the Porter Notes. Income tax provision was $181,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to income tax benefit of $1.8 million for the same period in 2015, which is based on the estimated annual effective tax rate applied to the pretax income for the nine month period, adjusted for the income tax provision previously provided, based on our expectation of pretax loss for the fiscal year. Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation was $2.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $6.6 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to the increase in operating income as discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As described in more detail below, we maintained a revolving credit facility (the "Facility") with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Inc. ("Wells Fargo") until July 15, 2016. Borrowings under the Facility were collateralized by substantially all of our assets including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable. The amount of available borrowings fluctuated based on the underlying asset-borrowing base, in general 85% of our trade accounts receivable, as adjusted by certain reserves (as further defined in the Facility agreement). The Facility provided us with virtually all of the liquidity we required to meet our operating, investing and financing needs prior to July 15, 2016. On July 15, 2016, the outstanding balance under the Facility was paid in full. On July 15, 2016, we entered into an Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Republic Capital Access, LLC ("RCA" or "Buyer"), pursuant to which we may offer for sale, and RCA, in its sole discretion, may purchase, eligible accounts receivable relating to U.S. government prime contracts or subcontracts of the Company (collectively, the "Purchased Receivables"). Additionally, on July 15, 2016, we entered into a Financing and Security Agreement (the "Financing Agreement") with Action Capital Corporation ("Action Capital"), pursuant to which Action Capital agreed to provide the Company with advances of up to 90% of the net amount of certain acceptable customer accounts of the Company that have been assigned as collateral to Action Capital (the "Acceptable Accounts"). The willingness of RCA to purchase our accounts receivable under the Purchase Agreement and of Action Capital to make advances under the Financing Agreement, and our ability to obtain additional financing, may be limited due to various factors, including the eligibility of our receivables, the status of our business, global credit market conditions, and perceptions of our business or industry by RCA, Action Capital, or other potential sources of financing. If we are unable to maintain the new financing arrangements, we would need to obtain additional credit to fund our future operations. If credit is available in that event, lenders may impose more restrictive terms and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity, increase our costs, or reduce our operating flexibility. The failure to maintain, extend, renew or replace our new sources of financing with a comparable arrangement or arrangements that provide similar amounts of liquidity for the Company would have a material negative impact on our overall liquidity, financial and operating results. RCA initially pays the Company 90% of U.S. Federal government receivables or 85% of certain commercial prime contractors. The remaining payment is deferred and based on the amount RCA receives from our customer, less a discount fee and a program access fee that is determined by the amount of time the receivable is outstanding before payment. The structure of the transaction provides for a true sale of the receivables transferred. Accordingly, upon transfer of the receivable to RCA, the receivable is removed from the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet, a loss on the sale is recorded and the residual amount remains a deferred payment as an account receivable until payment is received from RCA. The balance of the sold receivables may not exceed $10 million. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company sold approximately $25.8 million of receivables, and recognized a related loss of approximately $0.1 million in selling, general and administrative expenses for the same period. As of September 30, 2016, the balance of the sold receivables was approximately $4.7 million, and the related deferred price was approximately $0.7 million. 31 Index On July 15, 2016, Telos repaid the entire balance of the Facility utilizing proceeds generated through new financing arrangements with RCA and Action Capital, entered into concurrently with the payoff of the Facility, and terminated the Facility. At the time of the Facility repayment, the outstanding loan balance, including accrued interest and fees, was $5.4 million. Additionally, Wells Fargo required the Company to collateralize, by cash deposit, $0.3 million for an outstanding letter of credit and as general returned item collateral. Under the terms of the payoff letter for the Facility, RCA paid $5.7 million directly to Wells Fargo with the Company receiving the residual amount from the sale of $7.4 million of Purchased Receivables to RCA. Additionally, at the time of the Facility repayment, approximately $2.5 million of receivables were eligible to be financed through the Action Capital credit facility at the time of closing. The Company elected not to use this credit facility to effect the payoff, instead electing to finance the payoff through the RCA facility. Since receivables under the RCA facility are sold to RCA, current assets were utilized to pay off the Facility. The Company utilizes the RCA and Action Capital facilities in concert to meet its operating, investing and financing cash flow requirements. The Company utilized the Action Capital facility shortly after the close of the transactions. While the Company's decision to pay off a current liability (which was a noncurrent liability in the previous period) utilizing current assets (even though it had a noncurrent financing option for a substantial amount of the payoff available to it) had, and this quarter continues to have a negative effect on working capital as of the balance sheet date, the Company views this as a temporary situation that will begin to be reversed as it utilizes the Action Capital facility to finance its operations, as receivables that have not been financed through either facility are collected, and as it continues to generate earnings from operations. While a variety of factors related to sources and uses of cash, such as timeliness of accounts receivable collections, vendor credit terms, or significant collateral requirements, ultimately impact our liquidity, such factors may or may not have a direct impact on our liquidity based on how the transactions associated with such circumstances impact our availability under our credit arrangements. For example, a contractual requirement to post collateral for a duration of several months, depending on the materiality of the amount, could have an immediate negative effect on our liquidity, as such a circumstance would utilize cash resources without a near-term cash inflow back to us. Likewise, the release of such collateral could have a corresponding positive effect on our liquidity, as it would represent an addition to our cash resources without any corresponding near-term cash outflow. Similarly, a slow-down of payments from a customer, group of customers or government payment office would not have an immediate and direct effect on our availability unless the slowdown was material in amount and over an extended period of time. Any of these examples would have an impact on our cash resources, our financing arrangements, and therefore our liquidity. Additionally, as a result of operations for 2014, and the continued impact of contract delays as well as other government budgetary funding issues, management determined the need to raise additional working capital. Accordingly, in December 2014, we sold 10% of the membership interests in Telos ID to the Telos ID Class B member for $5 million, and, in March 2015, we issued subordinated notes in the amount of $2.5 million to affiliated entities of John R.C. Porter ("Porter Notes"), a holder of Telos Class A Common Stock and Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. Management currently believes that the Company's existing borrowing capacity is sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next 12 months. Management may determine that, in order to reduce capital and liquidity requirements, planned spending on capital projects and indirect expense growth may be curtailed, subject to growth in operating results. Should management determine that additional capital is required, management would likely look first to the sources of funding discussed above to meet any requirements, although no assurances can be given that these investors would be able to invest or that the Company and the investors would agree upon terms for such investments. Our working capital was $(5.6) million and $1.1 million as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. See discussion above regarding the effect on working capital as of the balance sheet date of the subsequent origination of the RCA and Action Capital facilities and payoff of the Wells Fargo Facility. 32 Index Cash provided by operating activities was $14.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $4.0 million for the same period in 2015. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is primarily driven by the Company's operating income, the timing of customer receivables and receipt of customer payments which used $4.3 million, the timing of its payments to vendors which provided $14 million, and the timing of its accruals and payments to employees, inclusive of bonus accruals, which provided $3.3 million, and the timing of inventory turnover which used $4.9 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items that do not impact cash flows from operating activities. Additionally, net loss was $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $4.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Cash used in investing activities was approximately $0.4 million and $0.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, due to the purchase of property and equipment. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $11.6 million, compared to $3.7 million for the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to net repayments of $8.5 million to the Facility and distribution of $1.3 million to the Telos ID Class B member for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to net repayments of $4.3 million to the Facility, distribution of $1.3 million to the Telos ID Class B member, offset by proceeds of $2.5 million from the Porter Notes for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Additionally, our capital structure consists of redeemable preferred stock and common stock. The capital structure is complex and requires an understanding of the terms of the instruments, certain restrictions on scheduled payments and redemptions of the various instruments, and the interrelationship of the instruments especially as it relates to the subordination hierarchy. Therefore, a thorough understanding of how our capital structure impacts our liquidity is necessary and accordingly we have disclosed the relevant information about each instrument as follows: Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement On July 15, 2016, we entered into the Purchase Agreement. Upon purchase of Purchased Receivables, RCA becomes the absolute owner of any such Purchased Receivables, which are payable directly to RCA, subject to certain repurchase obligations of the Company. The total amount of Purchased Receivables is subject to a maximum limit of $10 million of outstanding Purchased Receivables (the "Maximum Amount") at any given time. The Purchase Agreement has an initial term expiring on June 30, 2018 and automatically renews for successive 12 month renewal periods unless terminated in writing by either the Company or RCA. The initial purchase price of a Purchased Receivable is equal to 90% of the face value of the receivable if the account debtor is an agency of the U.S. government, and 85% if the account debtor is not an agency of the U.S. government; provided, however, that RCA has the right to adjust these initial purchase price rates in its sole discretion. After collection by RCA of the portion of a Purchased Receivable in excess of the initial purchase price, RCA shall pay the Company the residual 10% or 15% of such Purchased Receivable, as appropriate, less (i) a discount factor equal to 0.30%, for federal government prime contracts (or 0.56% for non-federal government investment grade account obligors or 0.62% for non-federal government non-investment grade account obligors) of the face amounts of Purchased Receivables; (ii) a program access fee equal to 0.008% of the daily ending account balance for each day that the Purchased Receivable is outstanding; (iii) a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum of Maximum Amount minus the amount of Purchased Receivables outstanding; and (iv) fees, costs and expenses relating to the preparation, administration and enforcement of the Purchase Agreement and any other related agreements. At the time the Purchase Agreement was signed, the Company received proceeds in an amount equal to $6.3 million, net of an initial enrollment fee equal to $25,000. Those proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Facility to Wells Fargo. The Purchase Agreement provides that in the event, but only to the extent, that the conveyance of Purchased Receivables by the Company is characterized by a court or other governmental authority as a loan rather than a sale, the Company shall be deemed to have granted RCA, effective as of the date of the first purchase under the Purchase Agreement, a security interest in all of the Company's right, title and interest in, to and under all of the Purchased Receivables, whether now or hereafter owned, existing or arising. 33 Index The Company provides a power of attorney to RCA to take certain actions in the Company's stead, including (a) to sell, assign or transfer in whole or in part any of the Purchased Receivables; (b) to demand, receive and give releases to any account debtor with respect to amounts due under any Purchased Receivables; (c) to notify all account debtors with respect to the Purchased Receivables; and (d) to take any actions necessary to perfect RCA's interests in the Purchased Receivables. The Company is liable to Buyer for any fraudulent statements and all representations, warranties, covenants, and indemnities made by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement. It is considered an event of default if (a) the Company fails to pay any amounts it owes to RCA when due (subject to a cure period); (b) the Company has voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceedings commenced by or against it; (c) the Company is no longer solvent or is generally not paying its debts as they become due; (d) any voluntary liens, garnishments, attachments, or the like are issued against or attach to the Purchased Receivables; (e) the Company breaches any warranty, representation, or covenant (subject to a cure period); (f) the Company is not in compliance or has otherwise defaulted under any document or obligation in favor of RCA or an RCA affiliate; or (g) the Purchase Agreement or any material provision terminates (other than in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement) or ceases to be effective or to be a binding obligation of the Company. If any such event of default occurs, then RCA may take certain actions, including ceasing to buy any eligible receivables, declaring any indebtedness or other obligations immediately due and payable, or terminating the Purchase Agreement. Financing and Security Agreement On July 15, 2016, we entered into the Financing Agreement. The maximum outstanding principal amount of advances under the Financing Agreement was $2.5 million, which was subsequently increased to $5 million on September 6, 2016. The Financing Agreement has a term of two years, provided that the Company may terminate it at any time without penalty upon written notice. At the time the Financing Agreement was signed, the Company did not borrow any amounts under the Financing Agreement. The Company shall pay Action Capital interest on the advances outstanding under the Financing Agreement at a rate equal to the prime rate of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in effect on the last business day of the prior month plus 2%, and a monthly fee equal to 0.50%. All interest calculations are based on a year of 360 days. The Company's obligations under the Financing Agreement are secured by certain assets of the Company pertaining to the Acceptable Accounts, including all accounts, accounts receivable, earned and unbilled revenue, contract rights, chattel paper, documents, instruments, general intangibles, reserves, reserve accounts, rebates, books and records, and all proceeds of the foregoing. Pursuant to the terms of the Financing Agreement, Action Capital shall have full recourse against the Company when an Acceptable Account is not paid in full by the respective customer within 90 days of the date of purchase or if for any reason it ceases to be an Acceptable Account, including the right to charge-back any such Acceptable Account. It is considered an event of default if the Company breaches any covenant or warranty, knowingly provides false or incorrect material information to Action Capital, or otherwise defaults on any of its material obligations under the Financing Agreement or any other material agreements with Action Capital (subject to a cure period). If any such events of default occur, then Action Capital may take certain actions, including declaring any indebtedness immediately due and payable, requiring any customers with Acceptable Accounts to make payments directly to Action Capital, exercising its power of attorney from the Company to take actions in the Company's stead with respect to any of Company's Acceptable Accounts, or terminating the Financing Agreement. As of September 30, 2016, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Financing Agreement. 34 Index In connection with the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement, we terminated the Facility with Wells Fargo, effective as of July 15, 2016, prior to its maturity date of April 1, 2017, and repaid all amounts outstanding under the Facility; other than (1) the obligations of the Company under the Facility and related loan documents with respect to letters of credits and fees, charges, costs and expenses related thereto, (2) the obligations of the Company under the Facility and related loan documents to reimburse Wells Fargo for costs and expenses that may become due and payable after the date of the termination of the Facility, and (3) any customary contingent indemnification obligations. The Company paid an early termination fee of $100,000, and no other early termination fees or prepayment penalties were incurred by the Company in connection with the termination of the Facility. Senior Revolving Credit Facility On March 31, 2015, we amended our Facility with Wells Fargo ("the Twelfth Amendment") to extend the maturity date to April 1, 2016. The Twelfth Amendment also amended the terms of the Facility, reducing the total credit available from $30 million to $20 million, and reducing the letter of credit sub-line limit from $5 million to $1 million. The reduced limits under the Facility more appropriately reflected the Company's projected utilization of the Facility. The Twelfth Amendment required quarterly installment payments of $350,000 beginning April 1, 2015, and extended the maturity date to April 1, 2016. The Twelfth Amendment established EBITDA and recurring revenue covenants, amending and restating in the entirety previously established financial covenants. The Twelfth Amendment authorized the issuance of $5 million in subordinated notes to affiliated entities of John R.C. Porter ("Porter Notes"), a holder of Telos Class A Common Stock and Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. The Twelfth Amendment also established a minimum excess availability requirement under the revolving component of $1.25 million and allowed for the payment of interest under the Porter Notes, subject to separate subordination agreements. In consideration for the closing of the Twelfth Amendment, we paid Wells Fargo a fee of $150,000, plus expenses related to the closing. On March 30, 2016 the Facility was amended ("the Seventeenth Amendment") to extend the maturity date to January 1, 2017. The Seventeenth Amendment also amended the terms of the Facility, reducing the total credit available from $20 million to $10 million effective as of the date of the amendment, which more appropriately reflected the Company's projected utilization of the Facility. The Seventeenth Amendment set the quarterly EBITDA covenants to more accurately reflect the Company's current operating budget. All other financial covenants remained unchanged. The Seventeenth Amendment eliminated the bottom tier of pricing established in the Twelfth Amendment, fixing the interest rate at the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 2.25%, the Federal Funds rate plus 2.75%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 3.25%. The Seventeenth Amendment also increased the minimum excess availability requirement under the revolving component from $1.25 million to $2.0 million, effective as of the date of the amendment, and increased the requirement to $2.5 million, effective July 1, 2016, and $3.0 million, effective November 1, 2016, if the Company did not receive $5 million of equity or subordinated debt investment by June 1, 2016. If such capital investment was not received by June 1, 2016, we would pay a fee of $100,000 to Wells Fargo, which was paid in June 2016. In consideration for the closing of the Seventeenth Amendment, we paid Wells Fargo a fee of $100,000, plus expenses related to the closing. On May 16, 2016, the Facility was amended to extend the maturity date to April 1, 2017. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $14,000 and $220,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, and $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively, on the Facility. At December 31, 2015, we had outstanding borrowings of $8.5 million on the Facility, which included the $3.2 million term loan, of which $1.4 million was short-term. At December 31, 2015, we had unused borrowing availability on the Facility of $5.8 million, respectively. The effective weighted average interest rate on the outstanding borrowings under the Facility was 7.3% and 6.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. On July 15, 2016, the outstanding balance under the Facility was paid in full. 35 Index Subordinated Debt On March 31, 2015, the Company entered into Subordinated Loan Agreements and Subordinated Promissory Notes ("Porter Notes") with affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (together referenced as "Porter"). Mr. Porter and Toxford Corporation, of which Mr. Porter is the sole shareholder, own 39.3% of our Class A Common Stock. Under the terms of the Porter Notes, Porter lent the Company $2.5 million on or about March 31, 2015. Telos also entered into Subordination and Intercreditor Agreements (the "Subordination Agreements") with Porter and Wells Fargo, in which the Porter Notes are fully subordinated to the Facility and any subsequent senior lenders (including Action Capital), and payments under the Porter Notes are permitted only if certain conditions are met. According to the terms of the Porter Notes, the outstanding principal sum bears interest at the fixed rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum which would be payable in arrears in cash on the 20th day of each May, August, November and February, with the first interest payment date due on August 20, 2015. The Porter Notes do not call for amortization payments and are unsecured. The unpaid principal, together with interest, is due and payable in full on July 1, 2017. The Porter Notes, in whole or in part, may be repaid at any time without premium or penalty. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $75,000 and $225,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, and $76,000 and $153,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively, on the Porter Notes. In accordance with the terms of the Porter Notes, interest has been accrued but was not paid due to restrictions on the payment of interest in the Subordination Agreements, and is not expected to be paid in the near term. Redeemable Preferred Stock We currently have two primary classes of redeemable preferred stock - Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and Public Preferred Stock. These classes of stock carry cumulative dividend rates of 14.125% and 12%, respectively. We accrue dividends on both classes of redeemable preferred stock and provided for accretion related to the Public Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Public Preferred Stock was fully accreted. The total carrying amount of redeemable preferred stock, including accumulated and unpaid dividends was $128.9 million and $125.9 million at September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. We recorded dividends of $1.0 million and $2.9 million for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, on the two classes of redeemable preferred stock, and such amounts have been included in interest expense. Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock is senior to all other outstanding equity of the Company, including the Public Preferred Stock. The Series A-1 ranks on a parity with the Series A-2. The components of the authorized Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock are 1,250 shares of Series A-1 and 1,750 shares of Series A-2 Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, each with $.01 par value. The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock carries a cumulative per annum dividend rate of 14.125% of its liquidation value of $1,000 per share. The dividends are payable semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each year. We have not declared dividends on our Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock since its issuance. The liquidation preference of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock is the face amount of the Series A-1 and A-2 ($1,000 per share), plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. Due to the terms of the Facility, the Porter Notes, the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and applicable provisions of Maryland law governing the payment of distributions, we have been precluded from redeeming the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and paying any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, other than described below. Certain holders of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock have entered into standby agreements whereby, among other things, those holders will not demand any payments in respect of dividends or redemptions of their instruments and the maturity dates of the instruments have been extended. As a result of such standby agreements, as of September 30, 2016, instruments held by Toxford Corporation ("Toxford"), the holder of 76.4% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, will mature on May 31, 2018. As of September 30, 2016, Mr. John Porter held 6.3% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. In the aggregate, as of September 30, Mr. Porter and Toxford held a total of 163 shares and 228 shares of Series A-1 and Series A-2 Redeemable Preferred Stock, respectively, or 82.7% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock. Mr. Porter is the sole stockholder of Toxford. Mr. Porter and Toxford own 39.3% of our Class A Common Stock. 36 Index At September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the total number of shares of Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock issued and outstanding was 197 shares and 276 shares for Series A-1 and Series A-2, respectively. Due to the limitations, contractual restrictions, and agreements described above, the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock is classified as noncurrent as of September 30, 2016. At September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, cumulative undeclared, unpaid dividends relating to Senior Redeemable Preferred stock totaled $1.6 million. We accrued dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock of $17,000 and $50,000 for the each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which were reported as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10, "Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity," on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' deficit. Public Preferred Stock A maximum of 6,000,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, has been authorized for issuance. We initially issued 2,858,723 shares of the Public Preferred Stock pursuant to the acquisition of the Company during fiscal year 1990. The Public Preferred Stock was recorded at fair value on the date of original issue, November 21, 1989, and we made periodic accretions under the interest method of the excess of the redemption value over the recorded value. We adjusted our estimate of accrued accretion in the amount of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2006. The Public Preferred Stock was fully accreted as of December 2008. We declared stock dividends totaling 736,863 shares in 1990 and 1991. Since 1991, no other dividends, in stock or cash, have been declared. In November 1998, we retired 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock. The total number of shares issued and outstanding at September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 was 3,185,586. The Public Preferred Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and the OTC Pink marketplace. Since 1991, no dividends were declared or paid on our Public Preferred Stock, based upon our interpretation of restrictions in our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, limitations in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock instrument, specific dividend payment restrictions in the Facility and the Porter Notes to which the Public Preferred Stock is subject, other senior obligations, and Maryland law limitations in existence prior to October 1, 2009. Subsequent to the 2009 Maryland law change, dividend payments continue to be prohibited except under certain specific circumstances as set forth in Maryland Code Section 2-311, which the Company does not currently satisfy. Pursuant to the terms of the Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were scheduled, but not required, to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in five annual tranches during the period 2005 through 2009. However, due to our substantial senior obligations, limitations set forth in the covenants in the Facility and the Porter Notes, foreseeable capital and operational requirements, and restrictions and prohibitions of our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were unable to meet the redemption schedule set forth in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock. Moreover, the Public Preferred Stock is not payable on demand, nor callable, for failure to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the redemption schedule set forth in the instrument. Therefore, we classify these securities as noncurrent liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Until July 15, 2016, we were parties with certain of our subsidiaries to the Facility agreement with Wells Fargo. Under the Facility, we agreed that, so long as any credit under the Facility is available and until full and final payment of the obligations under the Facility, we would not make any distribution or declare or pay any dividends (other than common stock) on our stock, or purchase, acquire, or redeem any stock, or exchange any stock for indebtedness, or retire any stock. Additionally, the Porter Notes contain similar prohibitions on dividend payments or stock redemptions. Accordingly, as stated above, we will continue to classify the entirety of our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as a long-term obligation. The Porter Notes and the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock prohibit, among other things, the redemption of any stock, common or preferred, other than as described above. The Public Preferred Stock by its terms also cannot be redeemed if doing so would violate the terms of an agreement regarding the borrowing of funds or the extension of credit which is binding upon us or any of our subsidiaries, and it does not include any other provisions that would otherwise require any acceleration of the redemption of or amortization payments with respect to the Public Preferred Stock. Thus, the Public Preferred Stock is not and will not be due on demand, nor callable, within 12 months from September 30, 2016. This classification is consistent with ASC 210-10, "Balance Sheet" and 470-10, "Debt" and the FASB ASC Master Glossary definition of "Current Liabilities." 37 Index ASC 210-10 and the FASB ASC Master Glossary define current liabilities as follows: The term current liabilities is used principally to designate obligations whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require the use of existing resources properly classifiable as current assets, or the creation of other current liabilities. As a balance sheet category, the classification is intended to include obligations for items which have entered into the operating cycle, such as payables incurred in the acquisition of materials and supplies to be used in the production of goods or in providing services to be offered for sale; collections received in advance of the delivery of goods or performance of services; and debts that arise from operations directly related to the operating cycle, such as accruals for wages, salaries, commissions, rentals, royalties, and income and other taxes. Other liabilities whose regular and ordinary liquidation is expected to occur within a relatively short period of time, usually twelve months, are also intended for inclusion, such as short-term debts arising from the acquisition of capital assets, serial maturities of long-term obligations, amounts required to be expended within one year under sinking fund provisions, and agency obligations arising from the collection or acceptance of cash or other assets for the account of third persons. ASC 470-10 provides the following: The current liability classification is also intended to include obligations that, by their terms, are due on demand or will be due on demand within one year (or operating cycle, if longer) from the balance sheet date, even though liquidation may not be expected within that period. It is also intended to include long-term obligations that are or will be callable by the creditor either because the debtor's violation of a provision of the debt agreement at the balance sheet date makes the obligation callable or because the violation, if not cured within a specified grace period, will make the obligation callable. If, pursuant to the terms of the Public Preferred Stock, we do not redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the scheduled redemptions described above, the terms of the Public Preferred Stock require us to discharge our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as soon as we are financially capable and legally permitted to do so. Therefore, by its very terms, the Public Preferred Stock is not due on demand or callable for failure to make a scheduled payment pursuant to its redemption provisions and is properly classified as a noncurrent liability. We pay dividends on the Public Preferred Stock when and if declared by the Board of Directors. The Public Preferred Stock accrues a semi-annual dividend at the annual rate of 12% ($1.20) per share, based on the liquidation preference of $10 per share and is fully cumulative. Dividends in additional shares of the Public Preferred Stock for 1990 and 1991 were paid at the rate of 6% of a share for each $.60 of such dividends not paid in cash. For the cash dividends payable since December 1, 1995, we have accrued $94.9 million and $92.1 million as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. We accrued dividends on the Public Preferred Stock of $1.0 million and $2.9 million for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which was recorded as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10 on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' accumulated deficit. The carrying value of the accrued Paid-in-Kind ("PIK") dividends on the Public Preferred Stock for the period 1992 through June 1995 was $4.0 million. Had we accrued such dividends on a cash basis for this time period, the total amount accrued would have been $15.1 million. However, as a result of the redemption of the 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock in November 1998, such amounts were reduced and adjusted to $3.5 million and $13.4 million, respectively. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, Section 2(a) states, "Any dividends payable with respect to the Exchangeable Preferred Stock ("Public Preferred Stock") during the first six years after the Effective Date (November 20, 1989) may be paid (subject to restrictions under applicable state law), in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors, in cash or by issuing additional fully paid and nonassessable shares of Exchangeable Preferred Stock ". Accordingly, the Board had the discretion to pay the dividends for the referenced period in cash or by the issuance of additional shares of Public Preferred Stock. During the period in which we stated our intent to pay PIK dividends, we stated our intention to amend our Charter to permit such payment by the issuance of additional shares of Public Preferred Stock. In consequence, as required by applicable accounting requirements, the accrual for these dividends was recorded at the estimated fair value (as the average of the ask and bid prices) on the dividend date of the shares of Public Preferred Stock that would have been (but were not) issued. This accrual was $9.9 million lower than the accrual would be if the intent was only to pay the dividend in cash, at that date or any later date. 38 Index In May 2006, the Board concluded that the accrual of PIK dividends for the period 1992 through June 1995 was no longer appropriate. Since 1995, we have disclosed in the footnotes to our audited financial statements the carrying value of the accrued PIK dividends on the Public Preferred Stock for the period 1992 through June 1995 as $4.0 million, and that had we accrued cash dividends during this time period, the total amount accrued would have been $15.1 million. As stated above, such amounts were reduced and adjusted to $3.5 million and $13.4 million, respectively, due to the redemption of 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock in November 1998. On May 12, 2006, the Board voted to confirm that our intent with respect to the payment of dividends on the Public Preferred Stock for this period changed from its previously stated intent to pay PIK dividends to that of an intent to pay cash dividends. We therefore changed the accrual from $3.5 million to $13.4 million, the result of which was to increase our negative shareholder equity by the $9.9 million difference between those two amounts, by recording an additional $9.9 million charge to interest expense for the second quarter of 2006, resulting in a balance of $126.9 million and $123.9 million for the principal amount and all accrued dividends on the Public Preferred Stock as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. This action is considered a change in assumption that results in a change in accounting estimate as defined in ASC 250-10, which sets forth guidance concerning accounting changes and error corrections. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 as filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016.