Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 6 Current Liabilities and Debt Obligations to the consolidated financial statements. Our 12% Cumulative Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Public Preferred Stock") trades over the OTC Bulletin Board and the OTCQB marketplace under the symbol "TLSRP". See Note 7 Redeemable Preferred Stock to the consolidated financial statements. No public market exists for our Series A-1 and Series A-2 Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock"). See Note 7 Redeemable Preferred Stock to the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2017, there were 45,213,461 and 4,037,628 shares issued and outstanding of Class A and Class B Common Stock, respectively. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following should be read in connection with the accompanying information presented in Item 7 and Item 8 of this Form 10-K. OPERATING RESULTS Years Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 (amounts in thousands) Sales $ 107,727 $ 134,868 $ 120,634 $ 127,562 $ 207,394 Operating income (loss) 414 2,112 (3,617 ) (11,644 ) 6,111 (Loss) income before income taxes (6,265 ) (3,335 ) (9,237 ) (16,600 ) 867 Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation (5,833 ) (7,175 ) (15,940 ) (12,288 ) (2,618 ) FINANCIAL CONDITION As of December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 (amounts in thousands) Total assets $ 74,361 $ 56,799 $ 59,964 $ 73,820 $ 88,609 Senior term loan (1) 10,786 --- --- --- --- Senior credit facility, long-term (1) --- --- 7,144 8,590 19,141 Subordinated debt, long-term (1) 2,289 --- 2,500 --- --- Capital lease obligations, long-term (2) 17,980 18,990 19,908 20,735 14,901 Deferred income taxes, long-term (3) 741 3,391 3,199 --- --- Senior redeemable preferred stock (4) --- 2,092 2,025 1,958 1,891 Public preferred stock (4) 131,565 127,742 123,919 120,097 116,274 (1) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 regarding our debt obligations. (2) See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 regarding our capital lease obligations. (3) See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 regarding our income taxes. (4) See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 regarding our redeemable preferred stock. 13 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General Our goal is to deliver superior IT solutions that meet or exceed our customers' expectations. We focus on secure enterprise solutions that address the unique requirements of the federal government, the military, and the intelligence community, as well as commercial enterprises that require secure solutions. Our IT solutions consist of the following: Cyber Operations and Defense: o Cyber Security Solutions and services that assure the security of our customers' information, systems, and networks, including the Xacta suite for IT governance, risk management, and compliance. Our information and cyber security consulting services include security assessments, digital forensics, and continuous compliance monitoring. o Secure Mobility Design, engineering and delivery of secure solutions that empower the mobile and deployed workforce in business and government. Our solutions protect sensitive communication while delivering voice, data, and video at the point of work in classified and unclassified environments. Identity Management (formerly Telos ID) Solutions that establish trusted identities in order to ensure authenticated physical access to offices, workstations, and other facilities; secure digital access to databases, host systems, and other IT resources; and protect people and organizations against insider threats. IT and Enterprise Solutions We have the experience with solution development and global integration to meet the requirements of business and government enterprises with secure IT solutions, from organizational messaging and data visualization to network construction and management. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements include revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, allowance for inventory obsolescence, the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, income taxes, contingencies and litigation, potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, estimated pension-related costs for our foreign subsidiaries and accretion of Public Preferred Stock. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of the most critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") ASC 605-10-S99. We consider amounts earned upon evidence that an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenues on arrangements requiring the delivery of more than one product or service are recognized in accordance with ASC 605-25, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables," which addresses and requires the separation and allocation at the inception of the arrangement of all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. This determination is made first by employing vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE"), to the extent it exists, then third-party evidence ("TPE") of selling price, to the extent that it exists. Given the nature of the deliverables contained in our multi-element arrangements, which often involve the design and/or delivery of complex or technical solutions to the government, we have not obtained TPE of selling prices on multi-element arrangements due to the significant differentiation which makes obtaining comparable pricing of products with similar functionality impractical. Therefore we do not utilize TPE. If VSOE and TPE are not determinable, we use our best estimate of selling price ("ESP") as defined in ASC 605-25, which represents our best estimate of the prices under the terms and conditions of a particular order for the various elements if they were sold on a stand-alone basis. We recognize revenues for software arrangements upon persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery of the software, and determination that collection of a fixed or determinable license fee is probable. Revenues for software licenses sold on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the related license period. For arrangements where the sale of software licenses are bundled with other products, including software products, upgrades and enhancements, post-contract customer support ("PCS"), and installation, the relative fair value of each element is determined based on VSOE. VSOE is defined by ASC 985-605, "Software Revenue Recognition," and is limited to the price charged when the element is sold separately or, if the element is not yet sold separately, the price set by management having the relevant authority. When VSOE exists for undelivered elements, the remaining consideration is allocated to delivered elements using the residual method. If VSOE does not exist for the allocation of revenue to the various elements of the arrangement, all revenue from the arrangement is deferred until the earlier of the point at which (1) such VSOE does exist or (2) all elements of the arrangement are delivered. PCS revenues, upon being unbundled from a software license fee, are recognized ratably over the PCS period. Software arrangements requiring significant production, modification, or customization of the software are accounted for in accordance with ASC 605-35 "Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts." 14 Table of Contents We may use subcontractors and suppliers in the course of performing contracts and under certain contracts we provide supplier procurement services and materials for our customers. Some of these arrangements may fall within the scope of ASC 605-45, "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent." We presume that revenues on our contracts are recognized on a gross basis, as we generally provide significant value-added services, assume credit risk, and reserve the right to select subcontractors and suppliers, but we evaluate the various criteria specified in the guidance in making the determination of whether revenue should be recognized on a gross or net basis. A description of the business lines, the typical deliverables, and the revenue recognition criteria in general for such deliverables follows: Cyber Operations and Defense Our Cyber Operations and Defense business line consists of Cyber Security and Secure Mobility solutions areas. Regarding our deliverables of Cyber Security solutions, we provide Xacta software and cybersecurity services to our customers. The software and accompanying services fall within the scope of ASC 985-605, "Software Revenue Recognition," as discussed above. We provide consulting services to our customers under either a firm-fixed price ("FFP") or time-and-management ("T&M") basis. Such contracts fall under the scope of ASC 605-10-S99. Revenue for FFP services is recognized on a proportional performance basis. FFP services may be billed to the customer on a percentage-of-completion basis or based upon milestones as appropriate under a particular contract, which may approximate the proportional performance of the services under the agreements, as specified in such agreements. To the extent that customer billings exceed the performance of the specified services, the revenue would be deferred. Revenue is recognized under T&M contracts based upon specified billing rates and other direct costs as incurred. For cost plus fixed fee ("CPFF") contracts, revenue is recognized in proportion to the allowable costs incurred unless indicated otherwise in the terms of the contract. Regarding our deliverables of Secure Mobility solutions, we provide wireless and wired networking solutions consisting of hardware and services to our customers. The solutions within the Secure Mobility group are generally sold as FFP bundled solutions. Certain of these networking solutions involve contracts to design, develop, or modify complex electronic equipment configurations to a buyer's specification or to provide network engineering services, and as such fall within the scope of ASC 605-35. Revenue is earned upon percentage of completion based upon proportional performance, such performance generally being defined by performance milestones. Certain other solutions fall within the scope of ASC 605-10-S99, such as resold information technology products, like laptops, printers, networking equipment and peripherals, and ASC 605-25, such as delivery orders for multiple solutions deliverables. For product sales, revenue is recognized upon proof of acceptance by the customer, otherwise it is deferred until such time as the proof of acceptance is obtained. For example, in delivery orders for Department of Defense customers, which comprise the majority of the Company's customers, such acceptance is achieved with a signed Department of Defense Form DD-250 or electronic invoicing system equivalent. Services provided under these contracts are generally provided on a FFP basis, and as such fall within the scope of ASC 605-10-S99. Revenue for services is recognized based on proportional performance, as the work progresses. FFP services may be billed to the customer on a percentage-of-completion basis or based upon milestones, which may approximate the proportional performance of the services under the agreements, as specified in such agreements. To the extent that customer billings exceed the performance of the specified services, the revenue would be deferred. Revenue is recognized under T&M services contracts based upon specified billing rates and other direct costs as incurred. Identity Management (formerly Telos ID) We provide our identity assurance and access management solutions and services and sell information technology products, such as computer laptops and specialized printers, and consumables, such as identity cards, to our customers. The solutions are generally sold as FFP bundled solutions, which would typically fall within the scope of ASC 605-25 and ASC 605-10-S99. Revenue for services is recognized based on proportional performance, as the work progresses. FFP services may be billed to the customer on a percentage-of-completion basis or based upon milestones, which may approximate the proportional performance of the services under the agreements, as specified in such agreements. To the extent that customer billings exceed the performance of the specified services, the revenue would be deferred. Revenue is recognized under T&M contracts based upon specified billing rates and other direct costs as incurred. IT & Enterprise Solutions We provide the Automated Message Handling System ("AMHS") as well as related services to our customers. The system and accompanying services fall within the scope of ASC 985-605, as fully discussed above. Other services fall within the scope of ASC 605-10-S99 for arrangements that include only T&M contracts and ASC 605-25 for contracts with multiple deliverables such as T&M elements and FFP services. Under such arrangements, the T&M elements are established by direct costs. Revenue is recognized on T&M contracts according to specified rates as direct labor and other direct costs are incurred. For CPFF contracts, revenue is recognized in proportion to the allowable costs incurred unless indicated otherwise in the terms of the contract. Revenue for FFP services is recognized on a proportional performance basis. FFP services may be billed to the customer on a percentage-of-completion basis or based upon milestones, which may approximate the proportional performance of the services under the agreements, as specified in such agreements. To the extent that customer billings exceed the performance of the specified services, the revenue would be deferred. 15 Table of Contents Estimating future costs and, therefore, revenues and profits, is a process requiring a high degree of management judgment. In the event of a change in total estimated contract cost or profit, the cumulative effect of a change is recorded in the period the change in estimate occurs. To the extent contracts are incomplete at the end of an accounting period, revenue is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, on a proportional performance basis, using costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs, or costs are deferred as appropriate under the terms of a particular contract. In the event cost estimates indicate a loss on a contract, the total amount of such loss, excluding overhead and general and administrative expense, is recorded in the period in which the loss is first estimated. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, where cost is determined primarily on the weighted average cost method. Inventories consist primarily of purchased customer off-the-shelf hardware and software, and component computer parts used in connection with system integration services that we perform. Inventories also include spare parts utilized to support certain maintenance contracts. Spare parts inventory is amortized on a straight-line basis over two to five years, which represents the shorter of the warranty period or estimated useful life of the asset. An allowance for obsolete, slow-moving or non-salable inventory is provided for all other inventory. This allowance is based on our overall obsolescence experience and our assessment of future inventory requirements . Goodwill and other intangible assets We evaluate the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," which requires goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets to be assessed on at least an annual basis for impairment using a fair value basis. Between annual evaluations, if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount, then impairment must be evaluated. Such circumstances could include, but are not limited to: (1) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, or (2) a loss of key contracts or customers. As the result of an acquisition, we record any excess purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as goodwill. An allocation of the purchase price to tangible and intangible net assets acquired is based upon our valuation of the acquired assets. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. We complete our goodwill impairment tests as of December 31st each year. Additionally, we make evaluations between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The evaluation is based on the estimation of the fair values of our three reporting units, Cyber Operations and Defense ("CO&D"), Identity Management, and IT & Enterprise Solutions, of which goodwill is housed in the CO&D reporting unit, in comparison to the reporting unit's net asset carrying values. Our discounted cash flows required management judgment with respect to forecasted revenue streams and operating margins, capital expenditures and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate. We utilized the weighted average cost of capital as derived by certain assumptions specific to our facts and circumstances as the discount rate. The net assets attributable to the reporting units are determined based upon the estimated assets and liabilities attributable to the reporting units in deriving its free cash flows. In addition, the estimate of the total fair value of our reporting units is compared to the market capitalization of the Company. The Company's assessment resulted in a fair value that was greater than the Company's carrying value, therefore the second step of the impairment test, as prescribed by the authoritative literature, was not required to be performed and no impairment of goodwill was recorded as of December 31, 2017. Subsequent reviews may result in future periodic impairments that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations in the period recognized. Recent operating results have reduced the projection of future cash flow growth potential, which indicates that certain negative potential events, such as a material loss or losses on contracts, or failure to achieve projected growth could result in impairment in the future. We estimate fair value of our reporting unit and compare the valuation with the respective carrying value for the reporting unit to determine whether any goodwill impairment exists. If we determine through the impairment review process that goodwill is impaired, we will record an impairment charge in our consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill is amortized and deducted over a 15-year period for tax purposes. Other intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationship enhancements. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 5 years. The amortization is based on a forecast of approximately equal annual customer orders over the 5-year period. Other intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount is not recoverable. As of June 30, 2016, the intangible assets had been fully amortized and no impairment charges had been taken. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740-10, "Income Taxes." Under ASC 740-10, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of temporary differences and income tax credits. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured by applying enacted statutory tax rates that are applicable to the future years in which deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized for differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities. Any change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in net income in the period in which the tax rate change is enacted. We record a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is "more likely than not" that deferred tax assets will not be realized. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Based on available evidence, realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income. We considered projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and reversal of taxable temporary differences in making this assessment. As such, we have determined that a full valuation allowance is required as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. We are not able to use temporary taxable differences related to goodwill as a source of future taxable income. As a result of a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, a deferred tax liability (hanging credit) related to goodwill remained on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Due to the tax reform enacted on December 22, 2017, net operating losses generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 will have an indefinite carryforward period, which will be available to offset future taxable income created by the reversal of temporary taxable differences related to goodwill. As a result, we have adjusted the valuation allowance on our deferred taxes at December 31, 2017. See additional information on tax reform and its impact on our income taxes in Note 9 Income Taxes. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations We derive substantially all of our revenues from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. Government. Our revenues are generated from a number of contract vehicles and task orders. Over the past several years we have sought to diversify and improve our operating margins through an evolution of our business from an emphasis on product reselling to that of an advanced solutions technologies provider. To that end, although we continue to offer resold products through our contract vehicles, we have focused on selling solutions and outsourcing product sales, as well as designing and delivering Telos manufactured and branded technologies. We believe our contract portfolio is characterized as having low to moderate financial risk due to the limited number of long-term fixed price development contracts. Our firm fixed-price activities consist principally of contracts for the products and services at established contract prices. Our time-and-material contracts generally allow the pass-through of allowable costs plus a profit margin. For 2017, 2016, and 2015, the Company's revenue derived from firm fixed-price contracts was 83.1%, 76.0%, and 77.0%, respectively, cost plus contracts was 7.4%, 16.4%, and 12.0%, respectively, and time-and-material contracts was 9.5%, 7.6%, and 11.0%, respectively. We provide different solutions and are party to contracts of varying revenue types under the NETCENTS (Network-Centric Solutions) and NETCENTS-2 contracts to the U.S. Air Force. NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") and government-wide acquisition contracts ("GWAC"), therefore any government customer may utilize the NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 vehicles to meet its purchasing needs. Consequently, revenue earned on the underlying NETCENTS and NETCENTS-2 delivery orders varies from period to period according to the customer and solution mix for the products and services delivered during a particular period, unlike a standalone contract with one separately identified customer. The contracts themselves do not fund any orders and they state that the contracts are for an indefinite delivery and indefinite quantity. The majority of our task/delivery orders have periods of performance of less than 12 months, which contributes to the variances between interim and annual reporting periods. The period of performance for the original NETCENTS contract ended on September 30, 2013. Previously awarded task orders that contain periods of performance that extended past September 30, 2013, including exercisable option years under existing task orders, were not affected by the contract expiration. We were selected for an award on the NETCENTS replacement contract, NETCENTS-2 Network Operations and Infrastructure Solutions Small Business Companion, on March 27, 2014. Although no protest was filed over the Telos contract award, protests filed by other bidders resulted in a recommendation by the Government Accountability Office ("GAO") that the U.S. Air Force re-evaluate proposals and make a new source selection decision. Subsequent to the Air Force's reevaluation of the NETCENTS-2 procurement related to the protests, we were selected for an award on April 3, 2015 and the contract was opened for issuance of new orders in May 2015. We have also been awarded other IDIQ/GWACs, including the Department of Homeland Security's EAGLE II and blanket purchase agreements under our GSA schedule. However, we have not been awarded significant delivery orders under EAGLE II. On August 31, 2015, we were notified that we were not awarded the re-compete of a contract within our IT and Enterprise Solutions (formerly Secure Communications) area for a government agency. The contract had a total funded value of over $45 million over the prior three years and accounted for approximately 11% of revenue for 2015. We filed a protest of the award with the United States Court of Federal Claims ("COFC"), which entered a final order denying the protest on February 29, 2016. On March 4, 2016, we filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, appealing the decision of the COFC, and the appellate court affirmed the judgement of the lower court on December 13, 2016. We continued to perform under the contract through the period of performance, which ended on May 22, 2016. On October 13, 2016, we were notified that we were not awarded the re-compete of a contract within our Cyber Operations & Defense area for a government agency that we had bid as part of a joint venture. The contract had a total funded value of over $22 million over the prior three years and accounted for approximately 6% of revenue for 2016. The joint venture filed a protest of the award to another bidder with the GAO on October 24, 2016, which denied the protest on February 2, 2017. The joint venture then filed a claim with the COFC on February 10, 2017, together with a motion seeking to stay and enjoin the transition of the contract. The COFC denied the requests for injunctive relief on February 14, 2017, but initiated a one-month extension on the current contract so as to allow the CODC to address the joint venture's protest, hold a hearing and issue a decision in advance of any final contract transition. On April 27, 2017, the COFC issued a final decision in favor of the government. The period of performance on the contract ended on May 2, 2017. On March 23, 2018, the U.S. Government passed an omnibus appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018 (the "Consolidated Appropriations Act) (the U.S. Government's fiscal year begins on October 1 and ends on September 30). The Consolidated Appropriations Act provides funding to finance all U.S. Government activities through September 30, 2018, including a base budget for the DoD of $589.5 billion, which represents an increase of approximately $61 billion above the amounts enacted in the Defense Appropriations Act of 2017. The Consolidated Appropriations Act also includes funding of $65.2 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). On February 9, 2018, the U.S. Government passed the BBA. The BBA raised DoD fiscal year 2018 and 2019 spending caps to $700 billion and $716 billion, respectively. 17 Table of Contents Currently, U.S. defense spending through fiscal year 2021 remains subject to statutory spending limits established by the Budget Control Act. The spending limits were modified for fiscal years 2013 through 2017 by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. These acts, however, do not provide relief to the spending limits beyond fiscal year 2019. If Congress approves the President's budget proposal or other appropriation legislation with funding levels that exceed the spending limits, automatic across-the-board spending reductions, known as sequestration, would be triggered to reduce funding back to the spending limits. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 raised the limits on DoD spending caps in fiscal year 2018 and 2019 to $700 billion and $716 billion, respectively. However, continued budget uncertainty and the risk of future sequestration cuts remain unless the Budget Control Act is repealed or significantly modified. Our programs could be materially reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of the U.S. Government's continuing assessment of priorities, changes in government priorities, the implementation of sequestration (particularly in those circumstances where sequestration is implemented across-the-board without regard to national priorities), or other budget cuts in lieu of sequestration. On February 9, 2018, Congress passed the BBA, which suspended the debt limit through March 1, 2019. Congress will need to raise the debt limit on that date in order for the U.S. Government to continue borrowing money. If the debt ceiling is not raised in the future, the U.S. Government may not be able to pay for expenditures or fulfill its funding obligations and there could be significant disruption to all discretionary programs. Although we believe that key defense, intelligence and homeland security programs would receive priority, the effect on individual programs or Telos cannot be predicted at this time. We anticipate there will continue to be a significant amount of debate and negotiations within the U.S. Government over defense spending and the debt ceiling. In the context of these negotiations, it is possible that existing cuts to government programs could be kept in place, replaced with different spending cuts, and/or replaced with a package of broader reforms to reduce the federal deficit. Statement of Operations Data The following table sets forth certain consolidated financial data and related percentages for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2015 2015 2015 (dollar amounts in thousands) Revenue $ 107,727 100.0 % $ 134,868 100.0 % $ 120,634 100.0 % Cost of sales 67,161 62.3 91,422 67.8 89,961 74.6 Selling, general and administrative expenses 40,152 37.3 41,334 30.6 34,290 28.4 Operating income (loss) 414 0.4 2,112 1.6 (3,617 ) (3.0 ) Other income (expenses): Non-operating income 11 --- 18 --- 19 --- Interest expense (6,690 ) (6.2 ) (5,465 ) (4.1 ) (5,639 ) (4.6 ) Loss before income taxes (6,265 ) (5.8 ) (3,335 ) (2.5 ) (9,237 ) (7.6 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes 2,767 2.6 (334 ) (2.0 ) (4,265 ) (3.5 ) Net loss (3,498 ) (3.2 ) (3,669 ) (2.7 ) (13,502 ) (11.1 ) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (2,335 ) (2.2 ) (3,506 ) (2.6 ) (2,438 ) (2.0 ) Net loss attributable to Telos Corporation $ (5,833 ) (5.4 )% $ (7,175 ) (5.3 )% $ (15,940 ) (13.1 )% 18 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 Revenue . Revenue decreased by 20.1% to $107.7 million for 2017 from $134.9 million for 2016. Such decrease primarily consists of a decrease in sales from the U.S. Air Force NETCENTS-2 contract. As discussed above, NETCENTS-2 is an IDIQ contract utilized by multiple government customers and sales under NETCENTS-2 varied from period to period according to the solution mix and timing of deliverables for a particular period. Services revenue decreased by 27.7% to $81.6 million for 2017 from $112.9 million for 2016, primarily attributable to decreases in sales of $29.7 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility solutions under several NETCENTS delivery orders for Telos-installed solutions, and $4.5 million of IT & Enterprise solutions, due primarily to the loss of a contract as discussed above, offset by an increase in sales of $3.0 million of Identity Management solutions. The change in product and services revenue varies from period to period depending on the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions, as well as the timing of deliverables. Product revenue increased by 18.8% to $26.1 million for 2017 from $22.0 million for 2016, primarily attributable to increases in sales of $2.2 million of Identity Management solutions, $1.7 million of resold products in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility solutions, and $1.0 million of proprietary software in IT & Enterprise solutions, offset by a decrease in sales of $0.7 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security solutions in proprietary software. Revenue increased by 11.8% to $134.9 million for 2016 from $120.6 million for 2015. Such increase primarily consists of an increase in sales from the U.S. Air Force NETCENTS-2 contract. Services revenue increased by 15.6% to $112.9 million for 2016 from $97.7 million for 2015, primarily attributable to increases in sales of $11.7 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security solutions, $9.2 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility solutions under several NETCENTS delivery orders for Telos-installed solutions, and $2.8 million of Identity Management solutions, offset by a decrease in sales of $8.5 million of IT & Enterprise solutions due to the loss of a contract as discussed above. Product revenue decreased by 4.3% to $22.0 million for 2016 from $23.0 million for 2015, primarily attributable to a decrease in sales of $2.3 million of Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility solutions in resold products and $0.4 million of IT & Enterprise solutions and, offset by increases in sales of $1.2 million of Identity Management solutions, and $0.5 million of proprietary software sales in Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security solutions. Cost of sales. Cost of sales decreased by 26.5% to $67.2 million for 2017 from $91.4 million for 2016 as a result of decreases in revenue. Cost of sales for services decreased by $27.6 million, and as a percentage of services revenue decreased by 7.5%, due to a change in the mix and nature of the programs including an increase in sales of certain Telos-installed solutions in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility solutions under NETCENTS-2 and due to other contracts in Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security solutions, as well as the loss of a contract in IT & Enterprise Solutions as discussed above. Cost of sales for product increased by $3.4 million, primarily due to increases in product revenue for resold products, and as a percentage of product revenue increased by 2.9%, primarily due to declines in resold product margins and proprietary software margins. Cost of sales increased by 1.6% to $91.4 million for 2016 from $90.0 million for 2015 as a result of increases in revenue. Cost of sales for services increased by $4.5 million, and as a percentage of services revenue decreased by 6.1%, due to a change in the mix and nature of the programs including an increase in sales of certain Telos-installed solutions in Cyber Operations and Defense in Secure Mobility solutions under NETCENTS-2 and other contracts, as well as the loss of a contract in IT & Enterprise Solutions as discussed above. Cost of sales for product decreased by $3.0 million, primarily due to decreases in product revenue for resold product, and as a percentage of product revenue decreased by 10.5%, primarily due to improved resold product margins primarily in Telos ID. The increase in cost of sales is not necessarily indicative of a trend as the mix of solutions sold and the nature of such solutions can vary from period to period, and further can be affected by the timing of deliverables. Gross profit . Gross profit decreased by 6.6% to $40.6 million for 2017 from $43.4 million for 2016. Gross margin increased to 37.7% for 2017 from 32.2% for 2016, due to various changes in the mix of contracts in all business lines, primarily increases in sales of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security solutions. Gross profit increased by 41.6% to $43.4 million for 2016 from $30.7 million for 2015. Gross margin increased to 32.2% for 2016 from 25.4% for 2015, due to various changes in the mix of contracts in all business lines, primarily increases in sales of Cyber Operations and Defense in Cyber Security solutions. Selling, general, and administrative expenses . Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased 2.9% to $40.2 million for 2017 from $41.3 million for 2016. Such decrease is primarily attributable to decreases in amortization of other intangible assets of $1.1 million, bonuses of $0.6 million, and bank and financing fees of $0.5 million, offset by an increase in outside services of $1.1 million. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased 20.5% to $41.3 million for 2016 from $34.3 million for 2015. Such increase is primarily attributable to increases in bonuses of $4.1 million, labor costs of $2.6 million, and outside services of $1.5 million, offset by a decrease in amortization of other intangible assets of $1.1 million. Interest expense. Interest expenses increased 22.4% to $6.7 million for 2017 from $5.5 million for 2016, primarily due to an increase in interest on the EnCap senior term loan. 19 Table of Contents Interest expenses decreased 3.1% to $5.5 million for 2016 from $5.6 million for 2015, primarily due to a decrease in interest on senior credit facilities (as defined below). Components of interest expense are as follows: December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (amounts in thousands) Commercial and subordinated note interest incurred $ 2,848 $ 1,575 $ 1,750 Preferred stock interest accrued 3,842 3,890 3,889 Total $ 6,690 $ 5,465 $ 5,639 Provision for income taxes . Income tax benefit was $2.8 million for 2017, compared to income tax provision of $0.3 million for 2016, primarily due to the decrease in the hanging credit deferred tax liability as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Income tax provision was $0.3 million for 2016, compared to $4.3 million for 2015, primarily due to pretax loss of $3.3 million for 2016, compared to $9.2 million for 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As described in more detail below, we maintain a Credit Agreement with EnCap, a Purchase Agreement with RCA and a Financing Agreement with Action Capital. The willingness of RCA to purchase our accounts receivable under the Purchase Agreement and of Action Capital to make advances under the Financing Agreement, and our ability to obtain additional financing, may be limited due to various factors, including the eligibility of our receivables, the status of our business, global credit market conditions, and perceptions of our business or industry by EnCap, RCA, Action Capital, or other potential sources of financing. If we are unable to maintain the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement, we would need to obtain additional credit to fund our future operations. If credit is available in that event, lenders may impose more restrictive terms and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity, increase our costs, or reduce our operating flexibility. The failure to maintain, extend, renew or replace the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement with a comparable arrangement or arrangements that provide similar amounts of liquidity for the Company would have a material negative impact on our overall liquidity, financial and operating results. On July 15, 2016, Telos repaid the entire balance of our revolving credit facility (the "Facility") with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC ("Wells Fargo") utilizing proceeds generated through the new financing arrangements with RCA and Action Capital, entered into concurrently with the payoff of the Facility, and terminated the Facility. At the time of the Facility repayment, the outstanding loan balance, including accrued interest and fees, was $5.4 million. Additionally, Wells Fargo required the Company to collateralize, by cash deposit, $0.3 million for an outstanding letter of credit and as general returned item collateral. Under the terms of the payoff letter for the Facility, RCA paid $5.7 million directly to Wells Fargo with the Company receiving the residual amount from the sale of $7.4 million of Purchased Receivables to RCA. Additionally, at the time of the Facility repayment, approximately $2.5 million of receivables were eligible to be financed through the Action Capital credit facility at the time of closing. The Company elected not to use this credit facility to effect the payoff, instead electing to finance the payoff through the RCA facility. Since receivables under the RCA facility are sold to RCA, current assets were utilized to pay off the Facility. The Company utilizes the RCA and Action Capital facilities in concert to meet its operating, investing and financing cash flow requirements. While the Company's decision to pay off a current liability (which was a noncurrent liability in the previous period) utilizing current assets (even though it had a noncurrent financing option for a substantial amount of the payoff available to it) had a negative effect on working capital at that time, the effect was mitigated through earnings from operations. While a variety of factors related to sources and uses of cash, such as timeliness of accounts receivable collections, vendor credit terms, or significant collateral requirements, ultimately impact our liquidity, such factors may or may not have a direct impact on our liquidity based on how the transactions associated with such circumstances impact our availability under our credit arrangements. For example, a contractual requirement to post collateral for a duration of several months, depending on the materiality of the amount, could have an immediate negative effect on our liquidity, as such a circumstance would utilize cash resources without a near-term cash inflow back to us. Likewise, the release of such collateral could have a corresponding positive effect on our liquidity, as it would represent an addition to our cash resources without any corresponding near-term cash outflow. Similarly, a slow-down of payments from a customer, group of customers or government payment office would not have an immediate and direct effect on our availability unless the slowdown was material in amount and over an extended period of time. Any of these examples would have an impact on our cash resources, our financing arrangements, and therefore our liquidity. 20 Table of Contents Management may determine that, in order to reduce capital and liquidity requirements, planned spending on capital projects and indirect expense growth may be curtailed, subject to growth in operating results. Additionally, management may seek to put in place a credit facility with a commercial bank, although no assurance can be given that such a facility could be put in place under terms acceptable to the Company. Should management determine that additional capital is required, management would likely look first to the sources of funding discussed above to meet any requirements, although no assurances can be given that these investors would be able to invest or that the Company and the investors would agree upon terms for such investments. Our working capital was $(4.1) million and $(8.6) million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Although no assurances can be given, we expect that our financing arrangements with EnCap, RCA and Action Capital, collectively, are sufficient to maintain the liquidity we require to meet our operating, investing and financing needs for the next 12 months. Cash used in operating activities was $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $13.9 million for 2016, and cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 million for 2015. Cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by our operating income, the timing of receipt of customer payments, the timing of payments to vendors and employees, and the timing of inventory turnover, adjusted for certain non cash items that do not impact cash flows from operating activities. In 2017, net loss was $3.5 million, which included $2.8 million of income tax benefit. In 2016, net loss was $3.7 million, which included $0.3 million of income tax provision and $1.1 million of amortization of intangible assets. In 2015, net loss was $13.5 million, which included $4.3 million of income tax provision and $2.3 million of amortization of intangible assets. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 was $2.2 million, $0.6 million, and $0.4 million, respectively, which, for the year ended December 31, 2017, consisted primarily of the capitalization of software development costs of $1.5 million and the purchases of property and equipment. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $2.8 million, compared to cash used in financing activities of $12.6 million for 2016, and $2.3 million for 2015. The financing activities in 2017 consisted primarily of net proceeds of $9.4 million from the EnCap senior term loan, redemption of $2.1 million of senior preferred stock, repayments of $0.9 million under capital leases, and distributions of $3.7 million to the Class B Member of Telos ID. The financing activities in 2016 consisted primarily of net repayments of $6.7 million under the facilities, repayments of $3.2 million of a term loan, repayments of $0.8 million under capital leases, and distributions of $1.9 million to the Class B Member of Telos ID. The financing activities in 2015 consisted primarily of net repayments of $1.3 million under the Facility, repayments of $2.3 million of a term loan, proceeds of $2.5 million from subordinated debt, repayments of $0.8 million under capital leases, proceeds of $2.0 million from sale of 10% of Telos ID membership interest, and distributions of $2.4 million to the Class B Member of Telos ID. Additionally, our capital structure consists of redeemable preferred stock and common stock. The capital structure is complex and requires an understanding of the terms of the instruments, certain restrictions on scheduled payments and redemptions of the various instruments, and the interrelationship of the instruments especially as it relates to the subordination hierarchy. Therefore, a thorough understanding of how our capital structure impacts our liquidity is necessary and accordingly we have disclosed the relevant information about each instrument as follows: Enlightenment Capital Credit Agreement On January 25, 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Enlightenment Capital Solutions Fund II, L.P., as agent (the "Agent"), and the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), (together referenced as "EnCap"). The Credit Agreement provides for an $11 million senior term loan (the "Loan") with a maturity date of January 25, 2022, subject to acceleration in the event of customary events of default. All borrowings under the Credit Agreement will accrue interest at the rate of 13.0% per annum (the "Accrual Rate"). If, at the request of the Company, the Agent executes an intercreditor agreement with another senior lender under which the Agent and the Lenders subordinate their liens (an "Alternative Interest Rate Event"), the interest rate will increase to 14.5% per annum. After the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, the interest rate will increase 2.0%. The Company is obligated to pay accrued interest in cash on a monthly basis at a rate of not less than 10.0% per annum or, during the continuance of an Alternate Interest Rate Event, 11.5% per annum. The Company may elect to pay the remaining interest in cash, by payment-in-kind (by addition to the principal amount of the Loan) or by combination of cash and payment-in-kind. Upon thirty days prior written notice, the Company may prepay any portion or the entire amount of the Loan. An amount of approximately $1.1 million was netted from the proceeds on the Loan as a prepayment of all interest due and payable at the Accrual Rate during the period from January 25, 2017 to October 31, 2017. A separate fee letter executed by the Company and the Agent, dated January 25, 2017, sets forth the fees payable to the Agent in connection with the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains representations, warranties, covenants, terms and conditions customary for transactions of this type. In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Agent has been granted, for the benefit of the Lenders, a security interest in and general lien upon various property of the Company, subject to certain permitted liens and any intercreditor agreement. The occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement could result in the Loan and other obligations becoming immediately due and payable and allow the Lenders to exercise all rights and remedies available to them under the Credit Agreement or as a secured party under the UCC, in addition to all other rights and remedies available to them. While we did not earn sufficient revenue to meet the revenue covenant in Section 7.15(d) of the Credit Agreement, the Lenders agreed to waive our compliance with the covenant as of September 30, 2017. 21 Table of Contents In connection with the Credit Agreement, on January 25, 2017, the Company issued warrants (each, a "Warrant") to Agent and certain of the Lenders representing in the aggregate the right to purchase in accordance with their terms 1,135,284.333 shares of the Class A Common Stock of the Company, no par value per share, which is equivalent to approximately 2.5% of the common equity interests of the Company on a fully diluted basis. The exercise price is $1.321 per share and each Warrant expires on January 25, 2027. The value of the warrants were determined to be de minimis and no value was allocated to them on a relative fair value basis in accounting for the debt instrument. Effective February 23, 2017, the Credit Agreement was amended to change the required timing of certain post-closing items to allow for more time to complete the legal and administrative requirements around such items. On April 18, 2017, the Credit Agreement was further amended (the "Second Amendment") to incorporate the parties' agreement to subordinate certain debt owed by the Company to the affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (the "Subordinated Debt") and to redeem all outstanding shares of the Series A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock and the Series A-2 Redeemable Preferred Stock, including those owned by Mr. John R.C. Porter and his affiliates, for an aggregate redemption price of $2.1 million. In connection with the Second Amendment and that subordination of debt, on April 18, 2017, we also entered into Subordination and Intercreditor Agreements (the "Intercreditor Agreements") with affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (together referenced as "Porter"), in which Porter agreed that the Subordinated Debt is fully subordinated to the amended Credit Agreement and related documents, and that required payments, if any, under the Subordinated Debt are permitted only if certain conditions are met. The Credit Agreement also includes an $825,000 exit fee, which is payable upon any repayment or prepayment of the loan. This amount has been included in the total principal due and treated as an unamortized discount on the debt, which will be amortized over the term of the loan, using the effective interest method at a rate of 15.0%. We incurred fees and transaction costs of approximately $374,000 related to the issuance of the Credit Agreement, which are being amortized over the life of the Credit Agreement. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, under the Credit Agreement. On March 30, 2018, the Credit Agreement was amended (the "Third Amendment") to waive certain covenant defaults and to reset the covenants for 2018 measurement periods to more accurately reflect the Company's projected performance for the year. The measurement against the covenants for consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio were agreed to not be measured as of December 31, 2017 and were reset for 2018 measurement periods. Additionally, a minimum revenue covenant and a net working capital covenant were added. In consideration of these amendments, the interest rate on the loan was increased by 1%, which will revert back to the original rate upon achievement of two consecutive quarters of a specified fixed charge coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. The Company may elect to pay the increase in interest expense in cash or by payment-in-kind (by addition to the principal amount of the Loan). Contemporaneously with the Third Amendment, Mr. Wood agreed to transfer 50,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock owned by him to EnCap. Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement On July 15, 2016, we entered into an Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Republic Capital Access, LLC ("RCA" or "Buyer"), pursuant to which we may offer for sale, and RCA, in its sole discretion, may purchase, eligible accounts receivable relating to U.S. government prime contracts or subcontracts of the Company (collectively, the "Purchased Receivables"). Upon purchase, RCA becomes the absolute owner of any such Purchased Receivables, which are payable directly to RCA, subject to certain repurchase obligations of the Company. The total amount of Purchased Receivables is subject to a maximum limit of $10 million of outstanding Purchased Receivables (the "Maximum Amount") at any given time. The Purchase Agreement had an initial term expiring on June 30, 2018 and automatically renews for successive 12-month renewal periods unless terminated in writing by either the Company or RCA. On March 2, 2018, the term of the Purchase Agreement was extended to June 30, 2020. No fee or consideration of any kind was paid in connection with this extension. The initial purchase price of a Purchased Receivable is equal to 90% of the face value of the receivable if the account debtor is an agency of the U.S. government, and 85% if the account debtor is not an agency of the U.S. government; provided, however, that RCA has the right to adjust these initial purchase price rates in its sole discretion. After collection by RCA of the portion of a Purchased Receivable in excess of the initial purchase price, RCA shall pay the Company the residual 10% or 15% of such Purchased Receivable, as appropriate, less (i) a discount factor equal to 0.30%, for federal government prime contracts (or 0.56% for non-federal government investment grade account obligors or 0.62% for non-federal government non-investment grade account obligors) of the face amounts of Purchased Receivables; (ii) a program access fee equal to 0.008% of the daily ending account balance for each day that the Purchased Receivable is outstanding; (iii) a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum of Maximum Amount minus the amount of Purchased Receivables outstanding; and (iv) fees, costs and expenses relating to the preparation, administration and enforcement of the Purchase Agreement and any other related agreements. At the time the Purchase Agreement was signed, the Company received proceeds in an amount equal to $6.3 million, net of an initial enrollment fee equal to $25,000. Those proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Facility to Wells Fargo. The Purchase Agreement provides that in the event, but only to the extent, that the conveyance of Purchased Receivables by the Company is characterized by a court or other governmental authority as a loan rather than a sale, the Company shall be deemed to have granted RCA, effective as of the date of the first purchase under the Purchase Agreement, a security interest in all of the Company's right, title and interest in, to and under all of the Purchased Receivables, whether now or hereafter owned, existing or arising. 22 Table of Contents The Company provides a power of attorney to RCA to take certain actions in the Company's stead, including (a) to sell, assign or transfer in whole or in part any of the Purchased Receivables; (b) to demand, receive and give releases to any account debtor with respect to amounts due under any Purchased Receivables; (c) to notify all account debtors with respect to the Purchased Receivables; and (d) to take any actions necessary to perfect RCA's interests in the Purchased Receivables. The Company is liable to Buyer for any fraudulent statements and all representations, warranties, covenants, and indemnities made by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement. It is considered an event of default if (a) the Company fails to pay any amounts it owes to RCA when due (subject to a cure period); (b) the Company has voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceedings commenced by or against it; (c) the Company is no longer solvent or is generally not paying its debts as they become due; (d) any voluntary liens, garnishments, attachments, or the like are issued against or attach to the Purchased Receivables; (e) the Company breaches any warranty, representation, or covenant (subject to a cure period); (f) the Company is not in compliance or has otherwise defaulted under any document or obligation in favor of RCA or an RCA affiliate; or (g) the Purchase Agreement or any material provision terminates (other than in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement) or ceases to be effective or to be a binding obligation of the Company. If any such event of default occurs, then RCA may take certain actions, including ceasing to buy any eligible receivables, declaring any indebtedness or other obligations immediately due and payable, or terminating the Purchase Agreement. Financing and Security Agreement On July 15, 2016, we entered into a Financing and Security Agreement (the "Financing Agreement") with Action Capital Corporation ("Action Capital"), pursuant to which Action Capital agreed to provide the Company with advances of up to 90% of the net amount of certain acceptable customer accounts of the Company that have been assigned as collateral to Action Capital (the "Acceptable Accounts"). The maximum outstanding principal amount of advances under the Financing Agreement was $5 million. The Financing Agreement has a term of two years, provided that the Company may terminate it at any time without penalty upon written notice. At the time the Financing Agreement was signed, the Company did not borrow any amounts under the Financing Agreement. The Company shall pay Action Capital interest on the advances outstanding under the Financing Agreement at a rate equal to the prime rate of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in effect on the last business day of the prior month plus 2%, and a monthly fee equal to 0.50%. All interest calculations are based on a year of 360 days. The Company's obligations under the Financing Agreement are secured by certain assets of the Company pertaining to the Acceptable Accounts, including all accounts, accounts receivable, earned and unbilled revenue, contract rights, chattel paper, documents, instruments, general intangibles, reserves, reserve accounts, rebates, books and records, and all proceeds of the foregoing. Pursuant to the terms of the Financing Agreement, Action Capital shall have full recourse against the Company when an Acceptable Account is not paid in full by the respective customer within 90 days of the date of purchase or if for any reason it ceases to be an Acceptable Account, including the right to charge-back any such Acceptable Account. It is considered an event of default if the Company breaches any covenant or warranty, knowingly provides false or incorrect material information to Action Capital, or otherwise defaults on any of its material obligations under the Financing Agreement or any other material agreements with Action Capital (subject to a cure period). If any such events of default occur, then Action Capital may take certain actions, including declaring any indebtedness immediately due and payable, requiring any customers with Acceptable Accounts to make payments directly to Action Capital, exercising its power of attorney from the Company to take actions in the Company's stead with respect to any of Company's Acceptable Accounts, or terminating the Financing Agreement. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Financing Agreement. Senior Revolving Credit Facility As of December 31, 2015, the interest rate on the Facility was 5.75%. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $0.2 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, on the Facility. The effective weighted average interest rate on the outstanding borrowings under the Facility was 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2015. On March 30, 2016 the Facility was amended (the "Seventeenth Amendment") to extend the maturity date to January 1, 2017. The Seventeenth Amendment also amended the terms of the Facility, reducing the total credit available from $20 million to $10 million effective as of the date of the amendment, which more appropriately reflected the Company's projected utilization of the Facility. The Seventeenth Amendment fixed the interest rate at the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank "prime rate" plus 2.25%, the Federal Funds rate plus 2.75%, or the 3-month LIBOR rate plus 3.25%. The Seventeenth Amendment also increased the minimum excess availability requirement under the revolving component from $1.25 million to $2.0 million, effective as of the date of the amendment, and increased the requirement to $2.5 million, effective July 1, 2016, and $3.0 million, effective November 1, 2016, if the Company did not receive $5 million of equity or subordinated debt investment by June 1, 2016. If such capital investment was not received by June 1, 2016, we would pay a fee of $100,000 to Wells Fargo, which was paid in June 2016. In consideration for the closing of the Seventeenth Amendment, we paid Wells Fargo a fee of $100,000, plus expenses related to the closing. 23 Table of Contents On May 16, 2016, the Facility was amended to extend the maturity date to April 1, 2017. In connection with the Purchase Agreement and the Financing Agreement, we terminated the Facility with Wells Fargo, effective as of July 15, 2016, prior to its maturity date of April 1, 2017, and repaid all amounts outstanding under the Facility; other than (1) the obligations of the Company under the Facility and related loan documents with respect to letters of credits and fees, charges, costs and expenses related thereto, (2) the obligations of the Company under the Facility and related loan documents to reimburse Wells Fargo for costs and expenses that may become due and payable after the date of the termination of the Facility, and (3) any customary contingent indemnification obligations. The Company paid an early termination fee of $100,000, and no other early termination fees or prepayment penalties were incurred by the Company in connection with the termination of the Facility. Subordinated Debt On March 31, 2015, the Company entered into Subordinated Loan Agreements and Subordinated Promissory Notes ("Porter Notes") with affiliated entities of Mr. John R. C. Porter (together referenced as "Porter"). Mr. Porter and Toxford Corporation, of which Mr. Porter is the sole shareholder, own 34.9% of our Class A Common Stock. Under the terms of the Porter Notes, Porter lent the Company $2.5 million on or about March 31, 2015. Telos also entered into Subordination and Intercreditor Agreements (the "Subordination Agreements") with Porter and Wells Fargo, in which the Porter Notes are fully subordinated to the Facility and any subsequent senior lenders (including Action Capital), and payments under the Porter Notes are permitted only if certain conditions are met. According to the terms of the Porter Notes, the outstanding principal sum bears interest at the fixed rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum which would be payable in arrears in cash on the 20th day of each May, August, November and February, with the first interest payment date due on August 20, 2015. The Porter Notes do not call for amortization payments and are unsecured. The Porter Notes, in whole or in part, may be repaid at any time without premium or penalty. The unpaid principal, together with interest, was originally due and payable in full on July 1, 2017. On April 18, 2017, we amended and restated the Porter Notes to reduce the interest rate from twelve percent (12%) to six percent (6%) per annum, to be accrued, and extended the maturity date from July 1, 2017 to July 25, 2022. Telos also entered into the Intercreditor Agreements with Porter and EnCap, in which the Porter Notes are fully subordinated to the Credit Agreement and any subsequent senior lenders (including Action Capital), and payments under the Porter Notes are permitted only if certain conditions are met. All other terms remain in full force and effect. We incurred interest expense in the amount of $292,000, $300,000, and $229,000 for 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, on the Porter Notes. As a result of the amendment and restatement of the Porter Notes, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $1 million, which consisted of the remeasurement of the debt at fair value. As the extinguishment was with a related party, the transaction was deemed to be a capital transaction and the gain was recorded in the Company's stockholders' deficit as of December 31, 2017. 24 Table of Contents Public Preferred Stock A maximum of 6,000,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, has been authorized for issuance. We initially issued 2,858,723 shares of the Public Preferred Stock pursuant to the acquisition of the Company during fiscal year 1990. The Public Preferred Stock was recorded at fair value on the date of original issue, November 21, 1989, and we made periodic accretions under the interest method of the excess of the redemption value over the recorded value. We adjusted our estimate of accrued accretion in the amount of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2006. The Public Preferred Stock was fully accreted as of December 2008. We declared stock dividends totaling 736,863 shares in 1990 and 1991. Since 1991, no other dividends, in stock or cash, have been declared. In November 1998, we retired 410,000 shares of the Public Preferred Stock. The total number of shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016, was 3,185,586. The Public Preferred Stock is quoted as "TLSRP" on the OTCQB marketplace and the OTC Bulletin Board. Since 1991, no dividends were declared or paid on our Public Preferred Stock, based upon our interpretation of restrictions in our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, limitations in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock instrument, specific dividend payment restrictions in the Facility and the Porter Notes to which the Public Preferred Stock is subject, other senior obligations currently or previously in existence, and Maryland law limitations in existence prior to October 1, 2009. Subsequent to the 2009 Maryland law change, dividend payments continue to be prohibited except under certain specific circumstances as set forth in Maryland Code Section 2-311, which the Company did not satisfy as of the measurement dates. Pursuant to the terms of the Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were scheduled, but not required, to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in five annual tranches during the period 2005 through 2009. However, due to our substantial senior obligations currently or previously in existence, limitations set forth in the covenants in the Credit Agreement and the Porter Notes, foreseeable capital and operational requirements, and restrictions and prohibitions of our Articles of Amendment and Restatement, we were and remain unable to meet the redemption schedule set forth in the terms of the Public Preferred Stock as of the measurement dates. Moreover, the Public Preferred Stock is not payable on demand, nor callable, for failure to redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the redemption schedule set forth in the instrument. Therefore, we classify these securities as noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. On January 25, 2017, we became parties with certain of our subsidiaries to the Credit Agreement with EnCap. Under the Credit Agreement, we agreed that, until full and final payment of the obligations under the Credit Agreement, we would not make any distribution or declare or pay any dividends (other than common stock) on our stock, or purchase, acquire, or redeem any stock, or exchange any stock for indebtedness, or retire any stock. Additionally, the Porter Notes contain similar prohibitions on dividend payments or stock redemptions. Accordingly, as stated above, we will continue to classify the entirety of our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as a long-term obligation. The Credit Agreement and the Porter Notes prohibit, among other things, the redemption of any stock, common or preferred, other than as described above. The Public Preferred Stock by its terms also cannot be redeemed if doing so would violate the terms of an agreement regarding the borrowing of funds or the extension of credit which is binding upon us or any of our subsidiaries, and it does not include any other provisions that would otherwise require any acceleration of the redemption of or amortization payments with respect to the Public Preferred Stock. Thus, the Public Preferred Stock is not and will not be due on demand, nor callable, within 12 months from December 31, 2017. This classification is consistent with ASC 210-10, "Balance Sheet" and 470-10, "Debt" and the FASB ASC Master Glossary definition of "Current Liabilities." ASC 210-10 and the FASB ASC Master Glossary define current liabilities as follows: The term current liabilities is used principally to designate obligations whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require the use of existing resources properly classifiable as current assets, or the creation of other current liabilities. As a balance sheet category, the classification is intended to include obligations for items which have entered into the operating cycle, such as payables incurred in the acquisition of materials and supplies to be used in the production of goods or in providing services to be offered for sale; collections received in advance of the delivery of goods or performance of services; and debts that arise from operations directly related to the operating cycle, such as accruals for wages, salaries, commissions, rentals, royalties, and income and other taxes. Other liabilities whose regular and ordinary liquidation is expected to occur within a relatively short period of time, usually twelve months, are also intended for inclusion, such as short-term debts arising from the acquisition of capital assets, serial maturities of long-term obligations, amounts required to be expended within one year under sinking fund provisions, and agency obligations arising from the collection or acceptance of cash or other assets for the account of third persons. ASC 470-10 provides the following: The current liability classification is also intended to include obligations that, by their terms, are due on demand or will be due on demand within one year (or operating cycle, if longer) from the balance sheet date, even though liquidation may not be expected within that period. It is also intended to include long-term obligations that are or will be callable by the creditor either because the debtor's violation of a provision of the debt agreement at the balance sheet date makes the obligation callable or because the violation, if not cured within a specified grace period, will make the obligation callable. If, pursuant to the terms of the Public Preferred Stock, we do not redeem the Public Preferred Stock in accordance with the scheduled redemptions described above, the terms of the Public Preferred Stock require us to discharge our obligation to redeem the Public Preferred Stock as soon as we are financially capable and legally permitted to do so. Therefore, by its very terms, the Public Preferred Stock is not due on demand or callable for failure to make a scheduled payment pursuant to its redemption provisions and is properly classified as a noncurrent liability. 25 Table of Contents We pay dividends on the Public Preferred Stock when and if declared by the Board of Directors. The Public Preferred Stock accrues a semi-annual dividend at the annual rate of 12% ($1.20) per share, based on the liquidation preference of $10 per share and is fully cumulative. Dividends in additional shares of the Public Preferred Stock for 1990 and 1991 were paid at the rate of 6% of a share for each $.60 of such dividends not paid in cash. For the cash dividends payable since December 1, 1995, we have accrued $99.7 million and $95.9 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We accrued dividends on the Public Preferred Stock of $3.8 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, which was recorded as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10 on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' accumulated deficit. Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock was senior to all other outstanding equity of the Company, including the Public Preferred Stock. The Series A-1 ranked on a parity with the Series A-2. The components of the authorized Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock were 1,250 shares of Series A-1 and 1,750 shares of Series A-2 Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, each with $.01 par value. The Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock carried a cumulative per annum dividend rate of 14.125% of its liquidation value of $1,000 per share. The dividends were payable semiannually on June 30 and December 31 of each year. We had not declared dividends on our Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock since its issuance, other than in connection with the redemptions from 2010 to 2013. The liquidation preference of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock was the face amount of the Series A-1 and A-2 ($1,000 per share), plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. Due to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Porter Notes, other senior obligations currently or previously in existence, the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and applicable provisions of Maryland law governing the payment of distributions, we had been precluded from redeeming the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock and paying any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, other than the redemptions that occurred from 2010 to 2013. In addition, certain holders of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock had entered into standby agreements whereby, among other things, those holders would not demand any payments in respect of dividends or redemptions of their instruments and the maturity dates of the instruments have been extended. As a result of such standby agreements, as of December 31, 2016, instruments held by Toxford Corporation ("Toxford"), the holder of 76.4% of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock, would mature on May 31, 2018. At December 31, 2016, the total number of shares of Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock issued and outstanding was 197 shares and 276 shares for Series A-1 and Series A-2, respectively. Due to the limitations, contractual restrictions, and agreements described above, the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock was classified as noncurrent as of December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2016, cumulative undeclared, unpaid dividends relating to Senior Redeemable Preferred stock totaled $1.6 million. In accordance with the requirements of the Second Amendment to the EnCap Credit Agreement, we redeemed all outstanding shares of the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock on April 18, 2017 for $2.1 million. We accrued dividends on the Senior Redeemable Preferred Stock of $20,000, $67,000, and $67,000 for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which were reported as interest expense. Prior to the effective date of ASC 480-10, "Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity," on July 1, 2003, such dividends were charged to stockholders' deficit. Contractual Obligations The following summarizes our contractual obligations and our redeemable preferred stock at December 31, 2017 (in thousands): Payments due by Period Total 2018 2019 - 2021 2022 - 2024 2025 and later Capital lease obligations (1) $ 25,356 $ 1,948 $ 6,141 $ 6,609 $ 10,658 Senior term loan (2) 16,903 1,450 4,354 11,099 --- Subordinated debt (3) 3,905 --- --- 3,905 --- Operating lease obligations 2,740 516 1,504 720 --- $ 48,904 $ 3,914 $ 11,999 $ 22,333 $ 10,658 Public preferred stock (4) 131,565 Total $ 180,469 (1) Includes interest expense: $ 6,363 $ 935 $ 2,462 $ 1,826 $ 1,140 (2) Amount represents the carrying value as of December 31, 2017, plus interest and fee accrual of $5.9 million, is due and payable in full on January 25, 2022. (3) Amount represents the carrying value as of December 31, 2017, plus interest accrual of $1.6 million, is due and payable in full on July 25, 2022. (4 In accordance with ASC 480, the public preferred stock was reclassified from equity to liability in July 2003. Amount represents the carrying value as of December 31, 2017, and includes accrual of accumulated dividends and accretion of $125.2 million. Payment of such amount presumes conditions precedent being satisfied (See Note 7 Redeemable Preferred Stock) and as such, redemption date is unknown and accordingly payment is not reflected in a particular period. Amount does not reflect additional dividends and accretion through the redemption date as such date is unknown. Such additional dividends accrue annually in the amount of $3.8 million. Such accretion has been fully accreted as of December 31, 2008. 26 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303, paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K) that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, sales or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for property and equipment were $0.7 million, $0.6 million, and $0.4 million for 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. We presently anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $2.2 million in 2018; however, there can be no assurance that this level of capital expenditures will occur. We believe that available cash and borrowings under the Purchase Agreement and Financing Agreement will be sufficient to generate adequate amounts of cash to fund our projected capital expenditures for 2018. Capital Leases and Related Obligations We have various lease agreements for property and equipment that, pursuant to ASC 840, "Leases," require us to record the present value of the minimum lease payments for such equipment and property as an asset in our consolidated financial statements. Such assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the related lease or their useful life, whichever is shorter. Inflation The rate of inflation has been moderate over the past five years and, accordingly, has not had a significant impact on the Company. We have generally been able to pass through any increased costs to customers through higher prices to the extent permitted by competitive pressures. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements.