Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements about us and our industry that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated herein, including statements regarding our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipate, believe, contemplate, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, project, should, target, will or would or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. Within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, these forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: the evolving treatment paradigm for cancer, including physicians use of molecular data and targeted oncology therapeutics and the market size for our current and future products; our ability to expand our business beyond oncology into new disease areas; estimates of our addressable market and our expectations regarding our revenue, expenses, capital requirements and operating results; our ability to develop new products and services, including our goals and strategy regarding development and commercialization of AI Applications; our ability to maintain and grow our datasets, including in new disease areas and geographies; any expectation that the growth of our datasets will improve the quality of our products and services and accelerate their adoption; our ability to capture, aggregate, analyze or otherwise utilize genomic data in new ways and in additional diagnostic modalities; any expectation that we will continue to commercialize de-identified records and license them to multiple customers; the acceptance of our publications in peer-reviewed journals or of our presentations at scientific and medical conference presentations; the implementation of our business model and strategic plans for our products, technologies and businesses; competitive companies and technologies and our industry; the potential of Intelligent Diagnostics to be disruptive across a broad set of disease areas and the clinical trial process; our ability to manage and grow our business by expanding our sales to existing customers or introducing our products to new customers; third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions, including our strategy to increase reimbursement; our ability to establish and maintain intellectual property protection for our products or avoid claims of infringement; potential effects of evolving and/or extensive government regulation; the timing or likelihood of regulatory filings and approvals; our ability to hire and retain key personnel; our ability to expand internationally, including through our joint venture, SB Tempus Corp., or SB Tempus, in Japan; our ability to successfully acquire businesses, form joint ventures or make investments in companies or technologies, including our ability to realize the expected benefits of strategic plans, including our acquisition of Ambry Genetics Corporation, or Ambry; 1 our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, including our trade secret protected proprietary rights in our platform; our ability to service or pay down existing or future debt obligations; our anticipated cash needs and our needs for additional financing; and anticipated trends and challenges in our business and the markets in which we operate. You should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. And while we believe that information provides a reasonable basis for these statements, that information may be limited or incomplete. Our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on these statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments. 2 PART I Item 1. Business. Overview We endeavor to unlock the true power of precision medicine by creating Intelligent Diagnostics through the practical application of artificial intelligence, or AI, in healthcare. Intelligent Diagnostics use AI, including generative AI, to make laboratory tests more accurate, tailored, and personal. We make tests intelligent by connecting laboratory results to a patients own clinical data, thereby personalizing the results. Our novel insight was realizing that all laboratory test results, genomic or otherwise, could be contextualized for a specific patient based upon that patients unique characteristics, and technology could therefore guide therapy selection and treatment decisions to allow each patient to progress on their own unique path. The drugs recommended, the clinical trials explored, the care pathways evaluated, the adverse events consideredall have the potential to be refined and enhanced when test results are connected to a patients personal profile, enabling the right patient to be routed to the right therapy at the right time. To accomplish this, we built the Tempus Platform, which comprises both a technology platform to free healthcare data from silos and an operating system to make the resulting data useful. Our proprietary technology has allowed us to amass what we consider to be one of the largest libraries of clinical and molecular oncology data in the world. Our goal is to embed AI, including generative AI, throughout every aspect of diagnostics to enable physicians and researchers to make personalized, data-driven decisions that improve patient care. The ability to deploy AI in precision medicine at scale has only recently become possible. Advances in cloud computing, imaging technologies, large language models and low-cost molecular profiling, along with the digitization of vast amounts of healthcare data, have created a landscape that we believe is finally ripe for AI. However, despite an increase in the availability of healthcare data, physicians and researchers are largely unable today to leverage this data to improve patient care. The vast majority of healthcare data remains disconnected and lacks harmonization and structure. Traditional diagnostic tests are typically based only on a single data modality, such as a blood-based biomarker or a genomic mutation, and do not connect and integrate other forms of relevant clinical data, such as outcomes, or adverse events, or pathology results, which are essential for many clinical decisions. In order to bring AI to healthcare at scale, we believe the foundation of how data flows throughout the ecosystem needs to be rebuilt. We established new data pipes, going to and from providers, to allow for the free exchange of data between physicians, who interpret data, and diagnostic and life science companies, who provide data, integrating relevant clinical data, such as outcomes, or adverse events, which are essential for many clinical decisions. Without this capability, we believe that data would continue to accumulate without impacting patient care. To accomplish this, we built both a technology platform to free healthcare data from silos and an operating system to make this data useful, the combination of which we refer to as our Platform. Our Platform connects multiple stakeholders within the larger healthcare ecosystem, often in near real time, to assemble and integrate the data we collect, thereby providing an opportunity for physicians to make data-driven decisions in the clinic and for researchers to discover and develop therapeutics. We aim to help physicians find the best therapies for their patients, help pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies make the best drugs possible, and enable patient access to emerging therapies and clinical trials when appropriate. Tempus is a technology company focused on healthcare that straddles two converging worlds. We strive to combine deep healthcare expertise, providing next-generation diagnostics across multiple disease areas, with leading technology capabilities, harnessing the power of data and analytics to help personalize medicine. We endeavor to unlock the true power of precision medicine by creating Intelligent Diagnostics through the practical application of artificial intelligence, or AI, in healthcare. Intelligent Diagnostics use AI, including generative AI, to make laboratory tests more accurate, tailored, and personal. Unlike traditional diagnostic labs, we can incorporate unique patient information, such as clinical, molecular, and imaging data, with the goal of making our tests more intelligent and our results more insightful. Unlike other technology companies, we are deeply rooted in clinical care delivery as one of the largest sequencers of cancer patients, and patients with other diseases, in the United States. Straddling both worlds is advantageous as we believe Intelligent Diagnostics represent the future of precision medicine, informing more personalized and data-driven therapy selection and development. We believe their adoption could empower physicians to deliver better care and researchers to develop more precise therapies, with the potential to save millions of lives. 3 Our Platform includes proprietary software and dedicated data pipelines that create a network of healthcare institutions through approximately 700 unique data connections, many of which supply us with complex multimodal data in near real time, across approximately 3,000 healthcare institutions that order our products and services. Healthcare institutions supply us with this data in our capacity as a covered entity (for example, when we provide Next Generation Sequencing, or NGS, services on behalf of a patient), or as a business associate (for example, when we provide clinical trial matching services or data de-identification and structuring services). In addition to the data we receive in these capacities, we currently have a limited number of paid license agreements through which we acquire de-identified data directly from healthcare associations or institutions, and in certain circumstances we cover the actual direct costs associated with the technical integrations needed to create a data connection. We then integrate this data into a unified multimodal database through which we offer numerous analytical and decision support capabilities to our customers. We establish dedicated and integrated data connections with healthcare institutions to enhance the information we provide in our clinical reports, to increase the effectiveness of our clinical trial matching services, and to enable our AI Applications product line, which we believe has the ability to transform healthcare. We have developed multiple productseach based on our Platformthat have allowed us to invest in structuring and harmonizing multimodal data, which is a necessary precursor for deploying AI at scale. Our products are organized under three product lines, Genomics, Data, and AI Applications or Algos. Each product line is designed to enable and enhance the others, thereby creating network effects in each of the markets in which we operate. Our business model allows pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to unlock value from the data we collect, and allows us to monetize a de-identified copy of that data, in different ways across our different product lines. We believe these network effects provide a unique advantage to our business as the compounding value of each data record in our database serves to enhance our competitive moat. The more data we collect, the smarter our tests become, the more applications we launch, the more physicians join our network, further growing our database, making our tests more precise for clinicians and our database more valuable for researchers. Our Genomics product line leverages our laboratories to provide NGS diagnostics, PCR profiling, and other anatomic and molecular pathology testing to healthcare providers, life sciences companies, researchers, and other third parties. However, unlike other laboratory diagnostic testing providers, many of our tests are connected to clinical data in some manner, which allows our suite of tests to be self-learning and become more accurate with each new test that we run. Our Data and Services product line facilitates drug discovery and development for life sciences companies through two primary products, Insights and Trials. Through our Insights product, we license de-identified libraries of linked clinical, molecular, and imaging data and provide a suite of analytic and cloud-and-compute tools to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our second product within our Data and Services product line, Trials, leverages the broad network of physicians we work with in oncology to provide clinical trial support for pharmaceutical companies that are looking to reach hard-to-find and underserved patient populations. Our third product line, AI Applications, is focused on developing and providing diagnostics that are algorithmic in nature, implementing new software as a medical device, and building and deploying clinical decision support tools. The primary product of AI Applications is currently Next, an AI platform that leverages machine learning to apply an intelligent layer onto routinely generated data to proactively identify and minimize care gaps for oncology and cardiology patients. As this product gains adoption, we intend to leverage large language models, generative AI algorithms, and our vast database of de-identified data to develop algorithmic diagnostics designed to identify these patients earlier in their disease progression, when treatments are most effective. 4 Industry Background The Limitations of Employing Technology, Data, and AI in Healthcare and Precision Medicine Technology has had a significant impact on almost every sector of our global economy. From the way we shop online, access information on the internet, or use GPS to navigate the world. We benefit from, and depend on, technology, data, and the vast computational and connective ecosystem that surrounds us. Yet healthcare has seemingly lagged other industries in embracing the power of technology and leveraging the ensuing computational revolution. We believe this is changing. Recent technological advancements have facilitated the deployment of modern computational methods, such as AI and machine learning, to improve healthcare. Breakthroughs in cloud computing, imaging technologies, large language models, and low-cost molecular profiling have made it easier and more cost effective to digitize, structure, harmonize, and store healthcare data, and analyze the resulting datasets at an unprecedented rate. These developments are expediting the adoption of AI, which we believe will impact all aspects of healthcare, from clinical diagnostic testing to the discovery and development of therapeutics, to healthcare delivery more broadly. Despite the accumulation of healthcare data, we believe the healthcare system still lacks the integrated networks and modern analytical tools necessary to facilitate data-driven care at scale. The vast majority of healthcare data created today remains locked in silos and lacks harmonization due to decentralized institutions using non-standardized methods for collecting data, in addition to a large percentage of the data being in unstructured formats like free text (such as physician progress notes) and non-digitized images (such as pathology slides). Clinical outcomes data, to the extent it even exists, often remains disconnected from diagnostic data, and traditional laboratory tests provide results that are often based only on a single data modality that lack patient context. In addition, clinical and research decisions are too often made based on small sample sizes of historic data. In order to bring AI to healthcare at scale, we began by rebuilding the foundation of how data flows in and out of healthcare institutions, which we refer to as the Tempus Platform. We have established data pipes, going to and from providers, which allow for the free exchange of data between physicians, who interpret data, and diagnostic and therapeutic companies, who provide data. Harnessing the power of this data at scale required a Platform that could break down data silos, collect vast amounts of multimodal data, structure and harmonize it, and deploy AI to make it useful for physicians and researchers to make data-driven decisions in the clinic or at the lab bench, thereby advancing precision medicine. Our access to broad and diverse data serves as the basis for our ability to train generative AI models, and we believe our relationships with healthcare institutions provide us with proprietary data to deliver on the promise of AI in healthcare. Without this Platform, we believe the data would continue to pile up at an increasing rate without improving patient care. We have built a version of this Platform and are now deploying it at scale in oncology in the United States, with other disease areas following. Importance of Multimodal Healthcare Data Technology is enabling the healthcare industry to collect data at an unprecedented scale, yet most datasets continue to be fractured or narrowly focused by disease type or data modality; almost none are comprehensive enough to provide a full picture of the patient and their clinically relevant characteristics. We set out to solve that problem by building a platform that collects broad datasets in near real time and at scale. Our Platform is differentiated in several ways. First, we collect data from multiple diagnostic modalities, including NGS, anatomic pathology slides, radiology images, and other laboratory tests. Second, the data we collect is often connected to EHR data, such as key phenotypic characteristics, therapeutic data, and clinical outcome and response data. Third, our Platform is multi-disease, spanning oncology, neurology, cardiology, and infectious disease. Our Platform is purpose built to deploy AI at scale, using multimodal datasets, across disease areas. We believe these differentiators have the potential to transform healthcare. A New Industry: Intelligent Diagnostics to Advance Precision Medicine While AI has the potential to broadly impact healthcare, we believe it will transform diagnostics first. Diagnostics, broadly defined, is the process of determining by examination or assessment the nature and circumstance of disease. Physicians use diagnostics all the time; they order blood tests, biopsies, scans, genomic tests, and others. Physicians rely on diagnostic results to make the vast majority of their treatment decisions. Researchers rely on diagnostic tests to better understand disease and make better decisions throughout their discovery processes. 5 The ability to leverage generative AI on top of large, harmonized, multimodal datasets provides the opportunity to make diagnostic tests more personalized, and therefore more intelligent. Intelligent Diagnostics incorporate an individual patients longitudinal phenotypic, morphologic, and molecular data, including outcome data from the patients EHR, to give laboratory test results clinical context. In doing so, Intelligent Diagnostics can leverage generative AI to make laboratory tests more accurate, tailored, and personal. The test result itself is designed to be specific to each patient and their own unique patient journey. The result is also informed by our large dataset that enables association of clinical outcomes and therapeutic response for patients who are similar to the patient being treated. The process for making a diagnostic intelligent improves upon the process for performing genomic testing, by leveraging technology and data to add clinical context and therapeutic insights. An Intelligent Diagnostic requires the following: (i) perform a laboratory test or ingest results from a laboratory test; (ii) review the test results on a stand-alone basis; (iii) combine the stand-alone results with other forms of relevant clinical data from that patients medical records; (iv) contextualize or reconfigure the stand-alone laboratory results to the extent necessary with the insight derived from that patients clinical history; (v) include the outcome and response data of patients who are similarly situated to the patient for whom the test was ordered; and (vi) use generative AI to derive analytical and clinically relevant insights and provide those to the physician and patient. See below for an illustration comparing an Intelligent Diagnostic to a standard genomic test: We believe the adoption and deployment of Intelligent Diagnostics will have a substantial impact on patient care. In oncology, for example, Intelligent Diagnostics have the potential to eventually incorporate insights using data from molecular and anatomic pathology, bioinformatics, genomic variant analysis, inherited cancer risk, computational biology, drug label data, noted adverse events, clinical trial data, research publications, investigational studies, care pathways, real world evidentiary studies, and phenotypic and morphologic data. We already have the ability to incorporate many of these data elements today. The consequence of incorporating multimodal data is to make precision medicine personalized as opposed to targeted. A targeted diagnostic test might find a specific condition or characteristic of a patient that is relevant to a particular therapy. For example, in cancer, a targeted diagnostic test may identify a genomic biomarker that could inform therapy selection, such as identifying a HER2 amplification that would allow a HER2 inhibitor to be prescribed to a breast cancer patient. The standard test to determine whether a HER2 amplification is present (other than at Tempus) is typically not designed to assess factors such as whether the patient is male or female, old or young, or has diabetes or a heart condition. Nor does the standard test consider the medication the patient has taken or is currently taking, or the adverse events the patient has experienced. 6 An Intelligent Diagnostic test, by contrast, might recommend specific therapies based not just on a singular characteristic, but on the comprehensive profile of the patient who will receive the proposed therapy. For example, an Intelligent Diagnostic might highlight that the breast cancer patient should consider immunotherapy before taking the HER2 inhibitor, or might highlight a series of adverse events the physician should be aware of based on other phenotypic characteristics for that patient, such as if the patient had a heart condition and therefore an elevated risk of a cardiac adverse event from taking the HER2 inhibitor. By linking multimodal data regarding both the disease, such as cancer or diabetes, and the host, our tests can provide a more comprehensive and holistic view of the patient and reconfigure results based in part on the clinical data we collect and the aggregate information in our database. Intelligent Diagnostics also have the potential to disrupt the clinical trial process. Today new therapies are typically approved based on randomized clinical trials that apply to broad populations and demonstrate incremental improvements over the existing standard of care. The current process suffers from several inherent flaws. First, clinical trials are generally expensive and slow to complete. Second, if and when therapeutics are approved, they can have less of an impact on the larger population than the trial population, given an inherent bias on who has access to academic medical centers and emerging studies. Third, many new therapies are only effective on a subset of patients that enter clinical trials. We believe Intelligent Diagnostics, AI, and technology broadly can help solve these problems. We believe our ability to contextualize test results to individual patients, to incorporate real world evidence at scale, to identify patterns across similarly situated patients, will help physicians make better, data-driven decisions which drug to prescribe, which trial to consider, and so on. The Tempus Platform Tempus set out to build proprietary technology to implement Intelligent Diagnostics and to facilitate access to, and use of, the resulting datasets. The Tempus Platform connects multiple stakeholders within the larger healthcare ecosystem and provides both the technical infrastructure for what we consider to be one of the worlds largest libraries of matched clinical and molecular data, and an operating system to make that information useful. Our Platform is end-to-end and vertically integrated. It allows us to ingest data from providers, perform diagnostic testing upon request, generate results leveraging our multimodal database, and provide clinical context for a specific patient. Below is a graphic illustrating our Platforms core functionality. 7 We believe our AI-enabled Platform can provide unique value whenever two conditions exist: a heterogeneous diseased population and a variety of therapeutics or therapeutic pathways, which are often prescribed based on trial and error. For example, in oncology, there is a diverse population diagnosed with cancer, and each subtype has different characteristics. The combination of unique patient characteristics and different cancer subtypes results in a variety of phenotypic attributes (old, young, male, female, black, white, etc.). In addition, there are hundreds of possible therapeutic paths to consider in cancer (surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, etc.). These conditions create an ideal backdrop for the benefits of big data and AI. The same is true in neuropsychiatry. A heterogeneous population suffers from numerous neurological disorder subtypes, such as depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, and other psychiatric conditions. Like oncology, there is a diverse patient population and a number of prescribed antidepressants, often based on trial and error. Further, the complexity of oncology, neuropsychiatry, and many other major causes of morbidity necessitate a multimodal data approach, as any single modality (e.g., DNA-only) is unlikely to provide enough information to differentiate meaningful patient subgroups. We believe technology and AI should facilitate data associations and substantially reduce the guesswork associated with which drug to prescribe, in what amount, and in which order. Facilitated by our relationships with many leading hospitals across the healthcare system in the United States, we believe we are well positioned to introduce precision medicine at scale across multiple disease categories and drive adoption of our Platform and novel AI solutions. We are leveraging our ability to collect, structure and harmonize data, and deploy AI on large datasets to facilitate precision medicine broadly. We initially deployed our Platform in oncology, expanded substantially within oncology, and recently extended into neuropsychiatry, radiology, and cardiology. Below is a timeline of our Platforms evolution, both within oncology and into different disease categories: Core Elements of our Platform The Tempus Platform combines multiple elements into a vertically integrated infrastructure that enables us to ingest data from providers, structure and harmonize the data into a common database, provide laboratory diagnostic testing, and deliver personalized results that provide clinical context by leveraging our data. We offer closed-loop, full- stack, bi-directional integrations between a clinicians desktop and our laboratory diagnostic capabilities, analytics platform, and repository of multimodal data. Our scaled, interconnected provider network covers more than 50% of U.S. oncologists and provides us with broad data rights, including the rights to longitudinally updated data from time to time. The combination of our Platform and vast provider network yields a powerful flywheel that continues to become more accurate and precise as more patients are added, thereby compounding the network effects of our offering. We believe each of these elements is difficult for competitors to replicate, and together represent a significant competitive advantage. The following diagram represents the different elements of our Platform. 8 Ingestion and Generation of Data We ingest healthcare data in near real time and at scale, including molecular, clinical, and imaging data. Between our sequencing and data collection efforts, we are connected in some way to more than 50% of all oncologists practicing in the United States, along with a growing number of patients in neuropsychiatry, cardiology, and infectious disease. Our methods for collecting and creating data include the following: Ingesting data through our relationships and partnerships with healthcare providers. We have developed proprietary tools to establish approximately 700 direct data connections, across approximately 3,000 hospitals, many of which are bi-directional. We have established relationships with hundreds of provider networks, including more than 65% of all academic medical centers in the United States. To obtain data from these sources, we use a variety of near real-time connections (e.g., HL7, FHIR) and batch data exchanges. Healthcare institutions supply us with this data in our capacity as a covered entity (for example, when we provide NGS services on behalf of a patient), or as a business associate (for example, when we provide clinical trial matching services or data de-identification and structuring services). We ingest and structure data using optical character recognition, or OCR, natural language processing, or NLP, and proprietary workflow tools along with manual data curation. Our proprietary tools connect to a providers EHR system, data warehouse, or third-party data provider to pull out relevant structured and unstructured data that the provider has agreed to provide to Tempus, including longitudinal follow-up data to the extent the provider has made such data available. To facilitate these data- sharing relationships, we have developed software products and services that align to our customers interests by helping providers use our software tools to improve patient care. In certain circumstances, we cover the actual direct costs associated with the technical integrations needed to create a data connection. We cover these costs to help facilitate providers contribution of data and their corresponding use of our products, which then makes our tests more intelligent and helps them to facilitate the delivery of better care. We generally retain the rights we acquire in de-identified data even if our contractual obligations expire or are terminated. Relationships with industry associations. In addition to healthcare providers, we work with numerous industry associations in the United States, such as ASCO. Under our collaboration with ASCO, we structure and distribute the oncology data ASCO collects as part of CancerLinq, which is their oncology data effort. We work with other large associations such as ONCare Alliance, LLC (surviving entity after merger of the National Cancer Care Alliance and the Quality Cancer Care Alliance), and have agreements in place with large integrated community practices. While our 9 relationships in oncology are widespread, we are making inroads in other disease areas. For example, we are working with a large hospital network to train algorithmic models based on a de-identified subset of approximately 3.5 million electrocardiograms, or ECGs, across more than 800,000 patients, with decades of longitudinal clinical data, including outcome and response data. We also have agreements with numerous other institutions through both our sequencing and data efforts to collect and structure multimodal infectious disease data, and have entered into a variety of partnerships and collaborations across neuropsychiatry, diabetes, and cardiology giving us access to additional clinical data. Laboratory diagnostics. In addition to our dedicated data pipelines, we generate data for our Platform from our four high-throughput diagnostic testing labs in Chicago, Atlanta, Raleigh, and Aliso Viejo. Our labs offer a range of anatomical and molecular NGS tests, including a broad portfolio of solid tumor and liquid biopsy cancer tests. Our laboratory offerings enable us to populate our database with connected and comprehensive molecular, clinical, and morphologic data that has been de-identified. We also make available an unrestricted copy of the raw files containing the rich data we generate in the laboratory, along with any clinical data we curate, to the providers who order our tests, to further enable their own research efforts. In February 2025, we acquired Ambry Genetics Corporation, or Ambry, a leader in hereditary cancer screening and the supplier of our germline sequencing (Tempus|xG) for hereditary cancer risk. With the acquisition of Ambry, we can leverage its vast amounts of data to augment our current data offerings. Further, Ambrys offerings span multiple disease areas, enabling us to expand beyond oncology into new categories, such as pediatrics, rare disease, cardiology, reproductive health and immunology. Additionally, Ambrys significant laboratory capabilities on the west coast will help increase our overall footprint in the country. We ingest and generate a variety of different types of data from different sources. The following represents selected data modalities that we collect and aggregate into our database. Proprietary Data Processing Once data is ingested, we deploy proprietary clinical data abstraction tools, including natural language processing, optical character recognition, and our abstraction software, to structure, harmonize, and de-identify the data we collect. We have developed various software tools, including algorithmic agents that leverage large language models, to organize millions of records into a common format that spans a variety of data types. For example, we organize clinical data from unstructured documents and structured EHR fields, and typically digitize whole-slide pathology images as part of our clinical workflow. We then combine this data with the molecular data that we generate in our labs or process from third parties, giving us a more comprehensive profile of patients. Unstructured data housed in physician notes and other documents is processed using OCR and NLP, mapped to Tempus Medical Ontology, and routed to data abstractors for further curation and quality control. Typically we receive identified data, either in our capacity as a covered entity under the Health Insurance 10 Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, or to the extent we have a business associate agreement with the provider. Following abstraction and structuring, we de-identify data and only retain the resulting de-identified dataset, other than through our obligations to retain selected identified data as a covered entity providing laboratory tests to clinicians. Many clinicians who order Tempus tests clinically are also involved in research related activities. By making this organized and structured data available to the clinicians (along with raw files associated with the testing we perform) we serve, those clinicians can use the data to further their own research efforts to help patients. Our Proprietary Multimodal Database We believe most healthcare databases lack real-time functionality, depth among data types, and the scale of matched clinical and molecular records needed to meaningfully improve therapeutic research and development. Tempus is attempting to solve this problem by democratizing the use of near-real time molecular, clinical, and imaging data by embedding our solution into the clinical care of patients. As our testing volume has grown, and as our dedicated data pipelines have expanded, the size of our database has increased exponentially. Since we launched our Platform in 2016, Tempus has amassed over 900 million documents, across more than 7.3 million de-identified patient records, including over 1.1 billion pages of rich clinical text that we use to train our large language models. The database also includes over 1,400,000 records with imaging data, more than 1,300,000 with matched clinical records linked with genomic information, and more than 260,000 with full transcriptomic profiles. Within oncology specifically, we believe this represents one of the largest and most comprehensive molecular libraries of cancer patients in the world. The breadth of our database, the quality and diversity of our data, as well as its regularly updating nature, allow us to offer a variety of AI-enabled solutions to the market. We believe our unique data set enables us to bring the benefits of generative AI and large language models to healthcare, as our curated, multimodal database can be used as a proprietary training set to build a variety of AI based applications, which we intend to deploy through our existing network and distribution platform. We also retain the rights to broadly commercialize de-identified data. As the amount of data in our cloud environment continues to grow from its current size of more than 240 petabytes, we believe new AI applications and opportunities will emerge that are only possible with scale, driving innovations in patient treatment that were previously unattainable. The following diagram represents the growth of our database over time. 11 Another valuable attribute of our dataset is the number of different data modalities represented. We believe multimodal data is a necessary predicate to successfully build and deploy AI-based applications given the complexity of disease and the various attributes across different forms of data (e.g., text, images, molecules, etc.). As of December 31, 2024, our database included the following types of data, among others: Footnote: Our clinical data typically includes the following information to the extent provided and abstracted by Tempus: unique identifier; age; sex; race/ethnicity; histology; stage of disease; sample type (primary vs. metastatic); anatomical site of sample and method of procurement; cancer treatment history, including therapies administered; timing of relapse and timing of treatments, including cancer-related treatments and surgery; genomic profiling results (e.g., internal, external providers); tumor response; progression free survival; RECIST or equivalent; ECOG/Karnofsky scores, or equivalent; and adverse events. Proprietary Software Tools and Solutions We have developed numerous software tools and applications to help make our services accessible to multiple constituencies within the healthcare ecosystem and support our various product lines. We believe this system architecture, which employs AI techniques such as neural networks, deep learning, large language models, and other statistical learning techniques to generate patient-specific insights. We are able to not only train and validate some of these AI models for research use, but we can also develop them into clinical-grade algorithmic tests, or Algos, and deploy them clinically as part of routine care. As our data advantage and system architecture continue to improve, we believe our existing Intelligent Diagnostics will gain further adoption thereby accelerating our ability to deploy technologies, including AI Applications, in the clinical setting. We are both a healthcare company and a technology company, which we believe allows us to more quickly and effectively develop and deploy AI techniques within our proprietary software systems. To do so, we rely on employees with expertise spanning multiple disciplines, including those with PhDs and other advanced degrees in the scientific fields of machine learning, data science and computational biology, as well as Medical Doctors practicing disciplines such as pathology and oncology. In addition to our diverse employee base, we are able to train AI models using our proprietary and expansive multimodal, de-identified dataset. We leverage our varied expertise and extensive resources to continuously monitor and review the statistical performance of the models used across our Platform to ensure performance and prevent degradation. 12 We describe below some of the core software applications that form part of our Platform, including examples where we have developed and deployed AI techniques. External Facing Applications We have two primary software applications that serve as interfaces for different markets and allow our customers to interact with our Platform. Hub is our clinical application for physicians and other healthcare providers and is used primarily in our Genomics product line as an end-to-end application for healthcare providers who use our NGS tests. Lens is our application for life sciences customers and other healthcare researchers, launched in May 2021. Lens is aligned with Insights, one of our products within Data, and allows users to identify, license, and ultimately analyze cohorts of data for research purposes. We typically enable our customers to access free or charge certain software applications (like Hub) and certain features of other applications (like Lens). However, in some cases we may charge for access to Lens when a customer is interested in some form of customization or access to Lens full suite of capabilities. Hub Hub can be accessed on the web or through our mobile applications. Hub enables physicians and other providers to interact with our Platform, place orders for our laboratory tests, track them through the sequencing process, view results, and develop treatment plans using the other information Tempus makes available. Hub streamlines and automates what previously required a significant investment of both time and resources for those ordering and delivering genomic reports. A physicians experience, through Hub, typically begins with our online ordering feature, which presents providers with Tempus various test options and guides users through the ordering process. Once Tempus has processed an order and sequenced a specimen, Hub synthesizes information across our various tests, orders, and patients, and presents the information in a consumer-friendly interface. For example, Order Summary synthesizes information from various clinical orders, test results, and other information relevant to a patients course of treatment. A typical patient might have multiple sequencing events over time. Hub visually presents all of a patients results side-by-side, so a treating physician can comprehensively view how a patients disease has changed over time, including in response to therapy. Hub also provides care teams a robust set of search and filtering tools so they can navigate our Platform. Physicians can use Hub to identify similarly situated patients or patient sub-groups, including by specific molecular alteration. Physicians can also export and download the resulting dataset for further analysis. Hub offers additional functionality that goes beyond ordering and presenting clinical results. Our clinical trial system, for example, handles the complexities of matching patients to clinical trials, by synthesizing clinical and molecular data matched against inclusion and exclusion criteria for the trial. It even allows physicians to activate their point of care as a clinical trial site, if approved by the trial sponsor, in order to easily enroll patients who would otherwise not have access to experimental therapies. The proprietary features within Hub put powerful analytics in the hands of physicians, allowing them to pursue research opportunities using accessible molecular data, and explore immune insights such as HLA type, immune infiltrates and neoantigens. Finally, Time on Therapy provides physicians a view into the Tempus Precision Medicine Library, which includes the treatment paths of patients within our de-identified database who display similar molecular or phenotypic profiles to their own patients. These tools enable new patients to potentially benefit from the experience of those that came before. One example of an AI model whose results are available within Hub, and which illustrates a typical development and validation process for our AI models, is our tumor origin, or TO, algorithm. Our TO algorithm predicts the site of origin for cancer patients whose primary tumor site is unknown using machine learning models trained on tumor RNA expression results from our de-identified multimodal database. We began developing our TO algorithm in 2019, and it was first deployed in a clinical setting in 2021. We developed and trained the TO algorithm, like other machine learning models, by adopting current best practices for AI model development. For example, in developing the TO algorithm, we explored distinct model architectures (logistic regression, random forests and neural networks) and feature selection methods, and we utilized multiple cross validation techniques using both our own and independent third-party datasets. After its launch, we continue to monitor the performance of the TO algorithm by using advanced statistical methods to detect potential model drift or degradation over time. Each TO prediction is reviewed by our board certified pathologists for consistency with underlying data, and the distribution of expected cases is reviewed and assessed against the expected distribution of diagnoses. 13 We include below some illustrations depicting some of Hubs capabilities: 14 15 16 Lens Lens is our software application for life sciences and advanced precision research. We designed Lens to expose our multimodal, de-identified dataset to two main constituencies: (i) clinicians interested in exploring data related both to their own patients and to similarly situated patients from the broader Tempus dataset, and (ii) pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients that are focused on drug discovery and development and want to explore our dataset and/or supplement their own analytics with our tools and data. For clinicians, Lens helps users filter our multimodal database to identify groups of patients that meet their research requirements. It allows browsing, segmenting, selecting, and analyzing cohorts of patients using a variety of clinical, molecular, and demographic characteristics. We generally make these aspects of Lens available to our customers without charge because such access helps our customers identify data cohorts of interest and facilitates data licensing opportunities. In addition to this basic functionality, Lens allows advanced computational users to perform robust analytics using our cloud-and-compute infrastructure and modeling tool set. We launched certain of these advanced features in May 2021, one of which is called Notebooks, a proprietary tool that allows users to run their own AI models within our cloud-and-compute environment, taking advantage of fast and streamlined access to our data and computational infrastructure, and saving researchers time and money. Over time, we intend to enter into separate subscription agreements, and charge separately, for expanded access to Lens and the increased functionality we intend to provide to our users. We believe that as Lens evolves, it has the potential to redefine life sciences research as investigators can both use our tools for their computational needs and instantly download the data they need for their analysis. We are not aware of any other application in oncology, or any other major disease area, that allows researchers to build large multimodal cohorts, utilize advanced analytics capabilities to explore the data, and download data for deeper analysis in near real time. 17 We include below some illustrations depicting some of Lens' current capabilities, which we expect to continue to expand and enhance over time: 18 Other Software Applications Our software applications extend beyond the oncology space. In the neuropsychiatry space, for example, we have built a series of proprietary and customized applications that are oriented around depression and other related psychiatric conditions. In addition, we licensed a customized software tool, which we call TempusPRO, that helps track patient reported outcomes, which we integrate into Hub. Patients use the mobile application to complete regular and systematic check-ins, while providers use the tool to view clinical reports and review the patient reported information. We have developed this application to empower providers to make data-driven, personalized treatment decisions, as well as collect outcome measurements on a regular, longitudinal basis in an effort to build one of the largest real-world multimodal datasets in psychiatry. 19 Our Three Product Lines Our products are organized under three product lines, with each product line designed to enable and enhance the others, thereby creating network effects in the markets in which we operate. Our Genomics product line provides a broad range of diagnostic testing services to healthcare providers. Our Data and Services product line monetizes de-identified data that we collect and facilitates enrollment in clinical trials, and which at scale has allowed us to provide a series of data related services to our life sciences customers, such as clinical trial matching. Our AI Applications product line leverages our database to provide diagnostics entirely driven by data, which helps route patients to the optimal therapy and advance research more broadly. Our three product lines and their corresponding product offerings are illustrated in the diagram below: We believe the interrelated nature of our three product lines is unique. Our business model allows our clients to unlock value from our data, and allows us to monetize that data (in de-identified format), in different ways across our different product lines. We believe these network effects and the compounding impact on the value of each data record in our database enhance our competitive advantage. The more data we collect, the smarter our tests become, the more applications we can launch, the more physicians join our network, further growing our database, making our tests smarter for clinicians and our database more valuable for researchers. Genomics We launched our Genomics product line to provide a comprehensive suite of Intelligent Diagnostics to healthcare providers, and to generate a steady stream of molecular data to help fuel growth in our Data and AI Applications product lines. As we run more tests through our laboratories, and as those tests are linked to patient records and clinical outcomes, we 20 grow our data assets and leverage them across our other product lines. We operate three laboratories that provide NGS diagnostics, PCR profiling, and other anatomic and molecular pathology tests. We have broad capabilities across genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, microbiomic, epigenetic, and methylation-based assays, and our laboratory infrastructure allows us to operate as a high-quality, low-cost NGS provider broadly serving the market. However, unlike other laboratory diagnostic testing providers, many of our tests are connected to clinical data, in some manner, which allows our suite of tests to be self-learning, becoming more accurate and precise with each new test that we run. Furthermore, rather than providing a result based on a single data modality, such as a DNA mutation, our Platform leverages data from other modalities and other patients in an effort to be more comprehensive. We are generally paid for our Genomics services by billing insurance companies, or patients directly, who reimburse us for the tests we run, or by billing providers or pharmaceutical companies directly. The following diagram represents a summary of our test offerings as of December 31, 2024: Our Oncology Tests Our Platforms first application was in oncology, where we have built a versatile portfolio of cancer tests spanning solid tumors and hematologic malignancies, germline and somatic variants, and tissue and liquid biopsies. Since our inception, our approach to precision oncology has been to provide comprehensive genomic profiling through NGS that enables us to both generate clinically relevant insights that may not be possible with narrower testing approaches, and contribute high-quality molecular information back to providers and to our database. We offer large-panel solid tumor and hematologic testing through multiple assays, with our core clinical assay (xT and xR) offering large panel DNA, RNA full transcriptome, and incidental germline findings through normal blood or saliva analyses. Our current offerings also include liquid biopsy (xF), whole exome (xE), and hereditary cancer risk (xG). With our acquisition of Ambry in February 2025, we believe we have an opportunity to further expand and enhance our inherited risk screening capabilities for cancer patients. We are also currently validating a treatment response monitoring assay. Our oncology tests are differentiated not only because of their breadth, but also because in many cases they are connected to clinical data, which allows us to account for the drugs the patient took historically, how they responded, and for which clinical trials they are actually eligible. We endeavor to not recommend drugs for which a patient has been previously prescribed in a prior line of therapy and failed, and not recommend clinical trials they are not eligible to participate in, based on the inclusion or exclusion criteria of the trial. 21 The following table lists our current oncology test offerings: Lab Tests Launch Year Description Oncology tests Tempus|xT 2017 Designed to detect actionable oncologic targets by sequencing tumor tissue samples Typically associated with incidental germline testing for matched normal saliva or blood samples, when available Fourth generation test that covers648 genes at 500x coverage spanning approximately 3.6 Mb of genomic space Includes full TCR, BCR, and HLA typing for immuno- oncology, or IO, signatures Detects TMB, MSI, and fusions The test has an approximately 10-day quoted turnaround time. In our analytical validation, we demonstrated sensitivities >98% for SNVs,>92% for rearrangements / fusions, >92% for CNVs and indels, and 99.9% for MSI. Premarket approval (PMA) obtained from the FDA in April 2023 Awarded Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Test (ADLT) status Tempus|xE 2018 A whole exome cancer assay designed to identify actionable oncologic variants as well as neoantigens across the exome from tissue samples, thus enabling IO applications Run at ~150-250x media coverage for approximately 650 of the most significant onco-driving mutations and ~150-200x median coverage for more than 19,000genes on the panel Detects TMB, MSI, and fusions Tempus|xF 2018 Next-generation liquid biopsy assay covering 105 genes at approximately 20,000x coverage from peripheral blood samples for solid tumors Typically used for oncogenic and resistance mutations that can be detected in cell free DNA, or cfDNA, from a peripheral blood draw In our analytical validation, for 0.5% VAF and 30ng of DNA, we demonstrated >99.9% sensitivity for SNVs, 98.8% for indels, >99.9% for CNVs, and 97.4% for rearrangements and fusions. xF also demonstrated 100% sensitivity concordance with Roche AVENIO ctDNA Expanded Kit for indels, CNVs, and rearrangements. We also demonstrated >99.9% specificity for SNVs, indels, and fusions, and 96.2% specificity for CNVs Tempus|xG 2021 The xF+ version is a 523 gene panel that includes bTMB, MSI, additional fusions and CNVs 52 gene inherited cancer germline panel run off whole exome platform at 75x depth of coverage Tests hereditary predisposition across common and well- described cancer syndromes such as breast, ovarian, prostate cancer (BRCA1, BRCA2), pancreatic cancer (CDKN2A, PALB2), colorectal cancer (APC, BMPR1A), and Lynch Syndrome (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2, EPCAM) Typically used in patients with a personal and / or family history suggestive of hereditary predisposition to cancer and can guide future diagnostic decisions The xG+ version is an 88 gene panel covering genes associated with both 22 Lab Tests Launch Year Description common and rare hereditary cancers Tempus|xR 2023 Full transcriptomic profiling assay for solid tumors and hematologic malignancies at 50 million paired end reads, offered as a separate test as of January 2023 (previous paired with xT and xE) Reports clinically relevant fusions for more than 100 targeted genes, as well as altered splicing events for MET exon 14 and EGFRvIII, in an unbiased and comprehensive manner 43.4% of patients were matched to a targeted therapy when DNA seq, RNA seq, and immune biomarker assessment were combined, compared to 29.6% of patients who had a therapy match using DNA seq alone Among patients with identified fusions, 29% more patients were identified with a unique clinically actionable fusion that could be matched to a targeted therapy when RNA seq was incorporated, compared to DNA seq alone The test has an approximately 10-day quoted turnaround time We launched xM, a high coverage methylation sequencing assay for monitoring for cancer recurrence and minimal residual disease on June 1, 2024, initially covering colorectal cancer with the potential to expand into additional indications. In November 2023, we entered into a Commercialization and Reference Laboratory Agreement with Personalis, Inc., or Personalis, pursuant to which we began marketing Personalis Personal Dx test in the United States initially in non-small cell lung cancer and breast cancer, as well as IO treatment response monitoring. Personalis will conduct additional development activities to further analytically validate the test in other indications. Personalis will perform tests ordered by patients through us and will bill such patients or payers. We believe incorporating clinical data in our diagnostic tests has widespread benefits. For example, combining clinical and molecular data resulted in improved therapy matching for patients in a study that we conducted, the results of which were published in Nature Bio in September 2019. In that study, using our sequencing results and matched clinical data from 500 patient samples across a range of tumor types, we observed that 96% of patients could be matched to at least one clinical trial. Approximately 77% of patients were matched to at least one clinical trial based on a gene variant. Of the patients who were not matched to a biomarker-based clinical trial, 19.4% were matched to at least one disease-based clinical trial from clinical data alone. 23 The results of the Nature Bio study indicated that paired tumor-normal DNA-seq and RNA profiling of patient cancer biopsies yielded high match rates to targeted therapies and clinical trials, and also underscored the value of integrating and contextualizing clinical and molecular data to provide physicians with distilled information regarding their patients disease and potentially actionable characteristics. In sum, our Platform demonstrated an ability to help maximize personalized therapeutic options for a broader proportion of patients with cancer, which typically cannot be attained through smaller tumor-only DNA-seq panels. In addition, in a paper we published in Nature Precision Oncology in July 2021, we highlighted the benefits of performing both solid tumor and liquid biopsy profiling. We observed that the concordance of the results of tissue sequencing and liquid testing, even when concurrently profiled, was approximately 70% at most, with both liquid testing and tissue sequencing missing a selected number of potentially actionable mutations. Yet when both are performed, as Tempus often does, the coverage of potentially actionable mutations increases. We believe the market is recognizing the value of our products and their benefits, as they relate to sequencing both somatic and germline variants, running both solid tumor and liquid biopsies, broadly sequencing RNA in addition to DNA, making available raw files and structured clinical data, and matching the results to clinical data for the patient sequenced. As a result, our clinical volume in oncology rose from approximately 31,000 samples sequenced in 2018 to approximately 350,000 samples in 2024. Our Neuropsychiatry Tests We entered neuropsychiatry in 2019. We currently offer our proprietary nP assay for pharmacogenomic testing for patients with psychiatric conditions, such as depression, general anxiety disorder, bipolar disorder, and other relevant diagnoses. Despite the growing prevalence of depression and anxiety, their treatment remains largely the same as it has been for decades. Today, there are dozens of antidepressants that are often prescribed based on trial and error, where psychiatrists alter the dose and class of medications when one fails to work. The difficulties in prescribing medications leads many patients to take the wrong medications, in the wrong dose. Emerging evidence demonstrates that there are molecular mechanisms that suggest one drug, or class of drugs, may work better than another based on the genetic profile of the patient, and our assay is designed to elucidate these differences. The following table describes our nP assay. 24 Tempus|nP 2019 Pharmacogenomic profiling for patients with psychiatric conditions; primarily used for depression Covers 13 validated genes with known roles in pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and immune response to FDA approved medications that may be prescribed in the neuropsychiatric space Uses matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry to analyze 80 single nucleotide and small insertion-deletion (indel) variants in the 13 genes. Concurrently, DNA fragment analysis is used to analyze copy number variants in CYP2D6 and a large indel in the SLC6A4 promoter In an effort to bring AI to this field, we are not only performing pharmacogenomic profiling, we also regularly collect two additional data modalities: (i) time on therapy data from the patients EHR (or directly from the ordering physician), and (ii) patient reported outcome, or PRO, data through our TempusPRO mobile application. TempusPRO is our patient-facing mobile application that collects PRO measurements on a longitudinal basis. We are also capturing passive lifestyle measurements through mobile sensory devices, such as daily steps and minutes spent exercising. These measurements serve as a quantitative, unbiased backbone to the more qualitative and subjective measures that are commonplace in psychiatry. As we continue to advance the field of psychiatric medicine, we believe our Platform is well suited to extend to additional neurological conditions beyond depression, anxiety, and bipolar disorder. Data and Services Our Data and Services product line facilitates drug discovery and development for life sciences companies through two primary products: Insights and Trials. We also maintain a growing tumor-derived biological modeling (or organoid) laboratory, which allows us to provide modeling and screening services to our pharmaceutical and biotech clients. One way we measure our data business is based on the remaining total contract value, or the Remaining TCV, that is contractually committed to be delivered in the future. As of December 31, 2024, we have signed contracts with a Remaining TCV of more than $940.0 million, which includes approximately $300.0 million in additional potential future contractual opt-ins. Remaining TCV is equal to the total potential value of signed contracts and assumes the exercise of all contract options, all discretionary opt-ins, and no early termination. Remaining TCV includes the total potential value of the companys strategic collaborations with AstraZeneca AB, or AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK, which, although listed under the Data and Services product line, could be satisfied by the purchase of any of the companys products and services. Remaining TCV excludes any revenue recognized to date on these contracts or any future adjustments made to the contractual value as a result of amendments or terminations. Our agreements contain termination clauses, including the ability of our counterparty to terminate for convenience, and there can be no guarantee that contracts will not be terminated, that contractual options and discretionary opt-ins will be exercised, or that we will achieve the full amount of potential revenue represented by these contracts. Remaining TCV is not a calculation of revenue and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue, as Remaining TCV is not intended to be combined with or replace these items. Similarly, Remaining TCV is not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by, among other things, contract start and end dates, our ability to meet performance obligations, and the exercise of contractual options or termination rights. Moreover, Remaining TCV may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies and may not be comparable to such other metrics. Insights Historically, the primary means for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to build a dataset for drug discovery and development was to run a preclinical study or clinical trial, and to leverage limited datasets such as medical claims data. We believe Tempus is changing the existing paradigm. We launched our Insights product to allow researchers to access large amounts of multimodal healthcare data that historically did not exist at scale in a single consolidated database. We have amassed a large connected dataset, which we organize in near-real time across multiple modalities and multiple disease areas, allowing us to work with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies across the drug lifecyclefrom discovery, research and development, and, ultimately, commercialization. 25 For our Insights offering, we license libraries of linked, de-identified clinical, molecular, and imaging data, and provide a suite of analytic and cloud-and-compute tools for discovery, research, development, and other commercial purposes. Our primary customers are pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These customers either pay us on a per file basis or through multi-year data licensing agreements to use our de-identified patient database. We currently work with 19 of the 20 largest public pharmaceutical companies based on 2023 revenue. We believe we offer a unique value proposition to the industry as a cost-effective source of high-quality and comprehensive data on targeted patient populations. Our data is useful across the oncology drug development value chain, and our biotechnology and pharmaceutical customers are using the data to inform decisions in a variety of discovery and development applications, selected below. One metric that illustrates the utility of our data to our customers is Net Revenue Retention. Net Revenue Retention compares the annual Insights product revenue generated from all customers that made an Insights purchase in one year to the annual Insights product revenue generated from the same cohort of customers in the subsequent year. Net Revenue Retention is not a calculation of revenue and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue, as Net Revenue Retention is not intended to be combined with or replace these items. Similarly, Net Revenue Retention is not a forecast of future revenue. Moreover, Net Revenue Retention may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies and may not be comparable to such other metrics. For the year ended December 31, 2024, Net Revenue Retention was approximately 140% compared to the same cohort of customers for the period ended December 31, 2023. To illustrate an example of how our data can be applied, in December 2020, we published a peer-reviewed study in ScienceDirect in which we analyzed longitudinal real-world data, or RWD, from a large cohort of patients with breast cancer (n = 4,000) to test whether results were consistent with previous clinical studies and to demonstrate the real-world evidence validity of our database. We also evaluated whole-transcriptome sequencing as a complementary diagnostic tool (n = 400). The conclusions of the study demonstrated that our database mirrored the overall population of patients with breast cancer in the United States, and that near real-time, RWD analyses are feasible in a large, highly heterogeneous database. Furthermore, the study demonstrated that molecular data may aid deficiencies and discrepancies observed from breast cancer clinical RWD. Because many of our data profiles regularly update with clinical outcome and response data over time, the utility of a single de-identified record may increase over time. As such, the files we generate by sequencing a patient, when connected to clinical data, are valuable to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as they not only allow users to gain molecular insight into what is happening among cohorts of patients, but they also allow users to track those cohorts over time. As a result, our files behave as if they have a lifetime value that has the potential to increase over time, in a manner similar to a content company where you pay to create content and then monetize the content over time as people subscribe to access the content. 26 Trials Trials is our second offering within our Data and Services product line and leverages our broad network of physicians we work with in oncology to provide clinical trial matching services for pharmaceutical companies trying to reach hard-to-find and underserved patient populations. Our clinical trial matching product is built on top of our near real-time data feeds and harnesses AI to accelerate the connection between patients, clinical trial sites (hospitals) and clinical trial sponsors (life sciences companies). We empower both oncologists to help their patients find clinical trials and pharmaceutical companies to enroll patients into their trials. We generate revenue from both matching the patient to the trial (through notices we send to physicians alerting them of potential trials that are a fit for their patients), and from the patient actually enrolling in the trial. Our Trials product is a bold initiative that we do not believe has been implemented at scale in the United States by any other organization. We are endeavoring to create a just-in-time network across a wide variety of academic medical centers and community providers, that can support hundreds or even thousands of trials, in which the administrative and logistical foundation is uniform across the entire network. This network allows us to identify a patient that is a match for a targeted trial and get that patient enrolled within days, even if the trial was not previously open at the hospital (assuming consent of the trial sponsor), anywhere in the United States. Prior to Tempus, we believe it would have been virtually impossible to even attempt to build this type of just-in-time program across oncology, as the required ingredients for success are unique to our Platform, namely: (i) a large genomic sequencing business that is widely adopted and allows for the identification of patients that are molecular matches to trials; (ii) the ability to structure clinical data for those patients in near real time to filter for inclusion and exclusion criteria; (iii) direct pipelines allowing data to be transferred to and from the laboratory and provider; and (iv) an analytic engine able to stratify patients and follow each unique patient journey ensuring that patients actually enroll in the studies. Our clinical trial matching offering is called the TIME Trial program, which we launched in June of 2019. Since its introduction, this program has gained significant traction with more than 250 clinical trials signed into the network. More than 30,000 patients were identified for potential enrollment into clinical trials in our network as of December 31, 2024. We believe the breadth of our network, the data to which we have near real-time access, and our relationships with oncologists enable us to offer a clinical trial matching service that has the potential to materially expand patient access to and accelerate enrollment in clinical trials in the United States. 27 One of the primary benefits of our Trials product is our ability to facilitate the initiation of a clinical trial in a new location in a short amount of time. Third-party research suggests that it takes 6-12 months, on average, to initiate a new trial site for an ongoing clinical trial in the United States. We have been able to substantially streamline this process by leveraging technology and introducing a standard methodology, with activation of new sites through our Trials product taking approximately two weeks on average in 2024. A comparison of our average time from site initiation to patient consent with the industry average is below: In addition to TIME, we provide other clinical trial services and conduct our own studies as part of our Trials program, all with a goal of identifying new therapies and bringing them to market more efficiently. In January 2022, we acquired Highline Consulting, LLC, a contract research organization, or CRO, which we subsequently renamed Tempus Compass, LLC, or Tempus Compass. Tempus Compass manages and executes early and late-stage clinical trials, primarily in oncology. We also partner with life sciences companies to sponsor studies of drugs, devices, and diagnostics, integrating our life science solutions to help bring new drugs to market faster. Each of the products and services within our Trials program complement each other to create a suite of integrated solutions for life sciences companies from early discovery to commercialization. Tumor Derived Biological ModelingOrganoids In addition to our efforts to collect vast amounts of phenotypic, morphologic, and molecular data, we have built a large, biological modeling lab that allows us to test various theories in vitro through our large repository of tumor-derived Organoids, and to perform drug screening for our various life sciences clients. Many of our Organoids are fully characterized and sequenced using our NGS panels, providing genomic and transcriptomic data for our models, allowing us to explore various hypotheses that enhance our data. Examples of hypotheses we are able to test in our Organoid lab include: (i) which therapeutics are most effective; (ii) differential levels of drug response by tumor type, genomic profile, or other targeted attributes; (iii) discovery of RNA signatures; (iv) attributes of responders and non-responders; and (v) response rates in therapy-resistant models. We work with numerous collaborators including biotechnology companies, pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, and government labs. Since 2017, we have scaled our sample collection efforts and have received approximately 4,100 tumor samples to date. These samples cover a wide range of cancer subtypes, allowing us to work on comprehensive drug screening applications across multiple epithelial based tumor types, such as breast, lung, colorectal, and pancreatic. One of the goals of this screening is to predict a series of therapeutic responses in our Organoids and then test whether or not patients are experiencing similar responses in the clinical setting. 28 We view biological models as another form of data. Our efforts to grow Organoids are part of our overall strategy to leverage the best of systems biology along with the best of AI to collect the requisite data needed to produce answers broadly throughout healthcare. AI Applications The vastness of our dataset, along with our connected platform, creates an opportunity to use data to algorithmically diagnose and treat patients. Our third product line, AI Applications, or Algos, is focused on developing and providing diagnostics that are algorithmic in nature, implementing new software as a medical device, and building and deploying clinical decision support tools. The primary product of AI Applications is currently Next, an AI platform that leverages machine learning to apply an intelligent layer onto routinely generated data to proactively identify and minimize care gaps for oncology and cardiology patients. As this product gains adoption, we intend to leverage large language models, generative AI algorithms, and our vast database of de-identified data to develop algorithmic diagnostics designed to identify these patients earlier in their disease progression, when treatments are most effective. For example, algorithmic diagnostics that integrate multimodal data can be used to create a more accurate risk profile for patients, leading to improved outcomes and reduced cost. Our repository of multimodal data allows us to find associations and patterns that are largely invisible through a single data modality, but readily apparent when combined. In addition, we find the strength of our analytic models, and our ability to deploy them clinically, improves as we add additional datasets. While we plan to continue developing our own proprietary software and algorithms, from time to time, we also utilize open source technologies or in-license technologies from third parties. The example diagram below represents how algorithm-based diagnostics work and the value of multimodal data as it relates to improved analytics: 29 Algorithm-based diagnostics are already being used in healthcare, but are not widespread. For example, algorithms exist today that leverage EHR data and lab results to predict early onset of hospital-borne infections, but these tools are still in the very early stages of adoption and validation. While Algos today represent only a small proportion of the diagnostics market, we expect their adoption to grow substantially in the future. We believe Algos represent a significant long-term opportunity that may be substantially larger than our other existing product lines. We believe our ability to launch Algos at scale is a key differentiator of our Platform. Our Oncology Algos Portfolio We believe our robust, multimodal dataset creates an opportunity for Algos that otherwise would not be possible and allows us to build AI models at scale, clinically validate them, and deploy the resulting Algos into clinical practice. We currently offer a suite of Algos in oncology, and have more in various stages of development. As of December 31, 2024, more than 80,000 molecular oncology Algos have been ordered with our various genomic assays. Most of the Algos we currently offer are part of our xR assay, and we do not bill separately for them. Some Algos will likely yield little to no reimbursement until their clinical utility is established or will be ordered separately with our existing NGS assays or diagnostics to enhance the actionable information for physicians, and some may obtain reimbursement at prevailing rates for comparable tests. Algo Launch Year Description Oncology Tumor Origin (TO) Test 2021 Predicts the site of origin for cancer patients whose primary tumor site is unknown using tumor RNA expression results Intended use of the TO test is for cancers of unknown primary, or CUPs, and may help clinicians make more informed decisions where other clinical information like imaging and immunohistochemistry results do not provide a definitive diagnosis Uses information from analysis of nucleic acids by NGS performed as part of a separately ordered genomic or transcriptomic test Built using a large internal database of more than 20,000 annotated tumors with transcriptomic molecular data. By comparing the molecular profile (transcriptome) of the patients cancer with profiles of other cancers in our database, we can help pinpoint the origin of the patients cancer, potentially helping to inform the course of therapy For the year ended December 31, 2024, ordered on approximately 10% of our solid tumor profiles Homologous Recombination Deficiency (HRD) Test 2020 A DNA-based algorithmic test that helps identify if a patient has HRD, providing a comprehensive view into a patients ability to repair double-stranded DNA breaks HRD status can be used to identify patients who may be sensitive to PARP inhibitors and/or platinum-based chemotherapy Takes into account results from our solid tumor profiling, giving a full view into commonly mutated genes in the HR-pathway, along with a genome wide l LOH score, giving a clinician a complete view of HRD status Can be ordered across all major cancer subtypes and does not require additional tissue from the patient Currently incorporating RNA into a second version of the algorithm, which is intended to improve prediction 30 Algo Launch Year Description Dihydropyrimidine Dehydrogenase Deficiency (DPYD) Test 2021 Identifies certain alterations in the DPYDgene, which may be associated with a patients potential toxicity to 5-FU/Capecitabine chemotherapy based on the associated drug labeling and guidelines from the Clinical Pharmacogenomics Implementation Consortium, or CPIC. Provides insight into the potential likelihood of a patient developing severe or even fatal toxicity of 5-FU/Capecitabine chemotherapy by covering five SNVs in DPYD genes, providing a more complete patient profile. According to CPIC, 5-7% of patients test positive for DPYD deficiency and should be considered for monitoring or dose reduction. This algorithm uses sequencing data generated as a part of a separately-ordered Tempus|xT Solid Tumor + Normal test. Tempus DPYD is available pan-cancer although it is most relevant in colorectal, breast, pancreatic and GI cancer patients who are being considered for treatment with 5-FU/Capecitabine chemotherapy. Tempus PuristSM 2023 Tempus PuristSM test is an algorithm that classifies pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDAC) patients into one of two subtypes (basal-like or classical). Patients with the basal subtype have a worse prognosis and are less likely to benefit from FOLFIRINOX therapy than classical patients. Uses information from nucleic acids by NGS performed as part of a separately ordered genomic or transcriptomic test. USES a k-top scoring pair (k-TSP) method (8 top scoring pairs, 16 genes in total) to assign a basal probability score. Patients with a basal probability score of 50 are categorized as basal subtype, while those with basal probability score <50 are categorized as classical subtype. Our Cardiology Algos Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. About 700,000 Americans die from heart disease annually, with more than 11% of American adults diagnosed with heart disease and millions of patients suffering from undiagnosed, life-threatening, yet highly treatable conditions such as AFib, cardiomyopathy, and valvular heart disease, to name a few. Tempus is working on solutions to find, diagnose, and help treat these patients earlier in order to improve patient outcomes, using routinely generated clinical data, such as data from a 12-lead ECG, a widely used and easily acquired medical test that measures the electrical activity of the heart, to screen patients who might be at high risk and help navigate them to the appropriate interventional therapy. In cardiology, we ingest multimodal data and use approximately 60 algorithms to identify potential care gaps and continuously monitor patient data to find at-risk patients who may be falling through a care gap unbeknownst to their physician, and automatically notify care teams of any needed follow-up or disease progression. More than 100 hospitals nationwide are currently powered by Tempus Next and more than 45,000 patients are screened per month. 31 We are also developing algorithmic models that aid clinicians in identifying patients at increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation, or AFib, along with a variety of other cardiac conditions. These Algos are trained using a de-identified subset from approximately 3.5 million ECGs, across more than 800,000 patients, with decades of longitudinal clinical data, including outcome and response data. The FDA granted Tempus breakthrough status for our first ECG software device, which employs a diagnostic algorithm designed to identify patients at high risk of developing AFib in certain populations (patients 40 years of age and older, without pre-existing or concurrent AFib or atrial flutter, and who are at elevated risk of stroke based on a commonly used clinical stroke risk assessment tool (i.e., CHA2DS2-VASc score of 4)). Algo Launch Year Description Cardiology Atrial Fibrillation Test 2023 (in clinical trial setting) We have developed an algorithm designed to predict AFib from a normal ECG for certain populations. About 3.5% of patients who receive ECGs appear not to have AFib but will develop AFib, acute coronary syndrome, or similar condition within one year. This Algo is designed to predict major cardiac trauma and stroke risk from these normal ECG results. The Tempus AFib test received FDA breakthrough designation in March 2021 for patients 40 years of age and older, without pre-existing or concurrent AFib or atrial flutter, and who are at elevated risk of stroke based on a commonly used clinical stroke risk assessment tool (i.e., CHA2DS2-VASc score of 4). We are also advancing Algos that are designed to predict aortic stenosis, and we are working on other disease areas within cardiology, such as low ejection fraction and familial hypercholesterolemia. We are also advancing Algos that are designed to predict aortic stenosis, and we are working on other disease areas within cardiology, such as low ejection fraction and familial hypercholesterolemia. If broadly deployed, we believe these Algos could have widespread clinical applicability, increase life expectancy, and reduce the total cost of care. In addition to algorithms based on NGS testing or in the cardiology space, we currently offer more than 50 algorithms and are continuing to develop additional algorithms derived from radiologic images and digital pathology slides. In October 2022, we acquired Arterys, Inc., a company that provides a platform to derive insights from radiologic medical images to improve diagnostic decision-making, efficiency, and productivity across multiple disease areas. We have also developed algorithms based on Immunohistochemistry, or IHC, and H&E staining, which can be used, among other things, to help identify patients who may be eligible for additional treatments or clinical trials. Commercialization Our commercial efforts are generally focused on driving increased adoption of our various products and services, both by increasing the utilization of existing customers and securing new customers. We employ targeted sales and business development organizations, whose team members are engaged in direct sales and marketing efforts. Our commercial teams typically target healthcare providers and life sciences companies, which are the main purchasers of our products and services. We describe below our overall commercial strategy for each of our three products. Genomics Our Genomics product line, largely made up of molecular testing, has two primary customers: physicians and bio-pharma companies. When we sell our tests to physicians we are typically providing them as part of routine clinical care and we are often billing insurance and seeking reimbursement on behalf of the patients for whom the test was ordered. When we sell our test to bio-pharma, we are typically being paid as a contract sequencing provider, either for the trials they are running or as a companion diagnostic to their drug. On the physician side, we commercialize our Genomics products in the United States to clinicians and healthcare providers largely through our dedicated clinical sales organization, that calls on individual 32 doctors or medical practices. As of December 31, 2024, our clinical sales organization in the United States included approximately 210 sales representatives who are primarily contacting oncologists, psychiatrists, and other healthcare providers. Our sales representatives typically have backgrounds either in a particular disease area (such as oncology or neuropsychiatry) or in laboratory testing and therapeutics more generally. We supplement our commercial team with clinical specialists with extensive medical affairs experience who provide molecular support in the field. In oncology, which currently is our largest market, we are focused on driving adoption by targeting individual treating physicians, academic medical centers, community oncology practices, leading physician networks, and industry associations. We also are exploring relationships with third-party payers and governmental institutions. We have a land and expand strategy, by account, whereby we attempt to sign new accounts and increase adoption of our platform within these accounts over time. As such, we often begin a relationship that is transactional in nature, but seek over time, to work on a more comprehensive basis with healthcare providers, serving an ever increasing percentage of our molecular diagnostic needs over time. We find that once a physician starts using Tempus, if they order more than 5 oncology NGS tests from us, their 12-month retention rate is 87%. In addition, we believe that interactions among treating physicians help drive adoption of our products. We are focused on key opinion leaders in the industry through direct outreach and indirect marketing efforts. As of December 31, 2024, we have either published or been acknowledged in 600 publications (more than 450 Tempus-authored), including the following: 163 total (120 Tempus-authored) peer-reviewed articles published or accepted for publication in major journals, including publications such as Nature Biotechnology, Clinical Breast Cancer, Nature Medicine, and Cell. 339 total (281 Tempus-authored) poster presentations based on clinical and research data that have been accepted and presented at major scientific conferences. 37 oral presentations at scientific meetings such as the ASCO, ASCO Gastrointestinal and Genitourinary Cancer Symposiums, San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, and the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions. We have a similar strategy in neuropsychiatry, in which we aim to increase the commercial adoption of our nP test for depression as part of the rapidly growing market for pharmacogenomic testing, with a goal to better understand, diagnose and treat neuropsychiatric disorders. Our commercial strategy for other disease areas is expected to follow our strategy in oncology, which is to focus on offering a broad range of molecular diagnostics to the market, that are connected to clinical data, so we can track how molecular results correlate with outcomes and responses, thereby making our tests smarter and more personalized overtime. Research Testing A small component of our genomic testing involves testing performed in a research capacity. This type of testing is typically done under an agreed upon contracted arrangement for specific tests at specific prices and volumes. Typical customers in these arrangements are pharmaceutical companies engaged in testing for clinical trials, researchers who need genomic testing to further research activities, or a company marketing products or services of their own who elects to use us as a reference laboratory. In this type of research testing, the agreed upon rate for testing may vary significantly, and in some cases may even be offered as an in-kind service in exchange for other rights we obtain in the contracted relationship. As it relates to selling our Genomic Products to bio-pharma, we have a dedicated team of sales executives focused on calling on biotech and pharmaceutical companies who use genomic sequencing services predominantly for the research they are conducting, the clinical trials they are running, or as a companion diagnostic to the extent their therapeutic relies on a bio-marker. To this group, we are typically selling retrospective and prospective sample testing services, as well as companion diagnostic development to support the approval and commercialization of therapeutics. Data and Services In addition to our field sales force, our Data and Services products rely on a dedicated business development team focused on enterprise sales to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the United States and abroad. Our strategy with each customer is to demonstrate the value proposition of our Platform and de-identified datasets, and to expand the utilization of our Data and Services products across the organization from early-stage research through clinical development 33 to commercialization. Given the broad and differentiated utility of our Platform, we believe we can support our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers across many applications, including: early stage research and development; discovery of new targets and mechanisms of acquired resistance; clinical trial patient identification and enrollment; and Analytic services, including cloud and compute. We also expect to be able to capture other commercial opportunities from our genomic data, which can be used in combination with clinical outcomes or claims data for multiple applications, including novel target identification, label expansion, and other commercial applications. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 50 sales executives in our Data and Services product line development organization. We divide these individuals by both geography and strategic account to ensure consistency and coordination across our sales efforts. AI Applications Our third product line, AI Applications, is focused on developing and providing diagnostics that are algorithmic in nature, implementing new software as a medical device, and building and deploying clinical decision support tools. Our primary AI Applications product is currently Next, an AI platform that leverages machine learning to apply an "intelligent layer" onto routinely generated data to proactively identify and minimize care gaps for oncology and cardiology patients. As this product gains adoption, we intend to leverage large language models, generative AI algorithms, and our vast database of de-identified data to develop algorithmic diagnostics designed to identify these patients earlier in their disease progression, when treatments are most effective. We develop Algos in three ways: (i) we may develop them internally based on our robust de-identified dataset; (ii) we may collaborate with a third party to develop Algos together; and (iii) we may license an existing Algo from a third party. Once we clinically validate an Algo, we typically bring it to market through our existing provider network by leveraging our Genomics sales force. For example, our HRD and TO Algos in oncology have been added to our standard requisition forms, online portal, and EHR integrations. Treating clinicians can order these Algos at the same time they place their standard clinical testing orders for our other Genomics products. We believe clinicians find significant value in being able to receive multiple answers from Tempus while only needing to provide one set of biospecimens, thereby reducing the burden on their patients and their staff. At present, we expect our Algos in other disease areas to go to market through our network of EHR integrations and clinical collaborations. In October 2022, we acquired Arterys, Inc., a company that provides a platform to derive insights from radiology medical images to improve diagnostic decision-making, efficiency, and productivity across multiple disease areas. We have also developed algorithms based on IHC and H&E staining, which can be used, among other things, to help identify patients who may be eligible for additional treatments or clinical trials. We commercialize AI Applications in multiple ways. The commercialization of future Algos will depend the nature of each and whether we are able to bill insurance separately. When we do so, we expect reimbursement will be limited for most Algos at launch and may grow over time as we build additional evidence to support the clinical utility and benefit of each Algo. Competition The increasing value of using data to inform clinical care and drug development decisions is leading more companies to attempt to develop offerings that are marketed in a manner that makes them appear comparable to ours. As a result, each of our products faces increasing competition from a number of other companies. 34 Our Genomics products line primarily faces competition from diagnostics companies that profile genes in cancers and other disease areas, based on either single-marker or comprehensive genomic profile testing, using NGS to evaluate either blood or tissue. Our primary competitors for our currently marketed precision oncology tests include Foundation Medicine, Inc., which was acquired by Roche Holdings, Inc., Caris Life Sciences, Guardant Health, Inc., Natera, Neogenomics, ResolutionBio, which was acquired by Agilent, and others. As we expand into other applications such as recurrence monitoring or minimal residual disease, as well as potentially testing for early detection in the future, we anticipate facing competition from a broader universe of companies. Legacy diagnostic laboratories, such as Quest and LabCorp may also pose competitive threats within the market. Competitors for our pharmacogenetic test in neuropsychiatry include Myriad Genetics, Inc. and Genomind, Inc. Our Data and Services products primarily face competition from companies that help pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies acquire data to inform drug discovery and development. Our main competitors in this area are Flatiron Health, Inc., IQVIA Holdings Inc., ConcertAI, and others. Our Data and Services products also face competition from CROs, such as Fortrea, ICON, Syneos, PPD, and others, who provide data and clinical trial matching services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our AI Applications products face competition from providers that are focused on providing laboratory testing or algorithm-based diagnostics for the disease and application areas in which our Algos are focused. Our TO test competes with liquid or tissue-based diagnostic tests from Roche Holdings, Inc., Caris Life Sciences, Guardant Health, Inc. Illumina, Inc, and others. Our HRD test competes with tests from Myriad Genetics, Inc., Caris Life Sciences, and others. We may also compete with companies developing or commercializing algorithm-based diagnostics using a variety of different data modalities, including digital pathology companies such as PathAI, Inc. and PaigeAI. In cardiology we may compete with companies such as HeartFlow Inc. and Eko Devices, Inc. We expect other competitors to enter this market, including academic medical centers who develop their own Algos and are looking for new ways to commercialize them. We believe we are positioned well against this competition given our broad provider network and our ability to deploy AI solutions at scale through our Platform. Many of our competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including larger research and development staff, or more established marketing and sales forces. Other competitors are in the process of developing novel technologies for the diagnostics and healthcare data markets that may lead to products that rival or replace our products. While we cannot be certain as to how the market will evolve, today we believe we are substantially differentiated from our competitors for many reasons, including the network effects of our products, proprietary technologies, rigorous product development processes and scalable infrastructure, customer experience, and multidisciplinary teams. For further discussion of the risks we face relating to competition, see the section titled Risk factors Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy. Payer coverage and reimbursement Clinical Testing A majority of the genomic testing we perform is clinical in nature. We typically receive reimbursement for these tests from commercial payers and from government health benefits programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In almost all of our arrangements for clinical testing, we take on the obligation (and risk) to bill the patients insurance for the testing being provided, subject to other laws that may require us to directly bill the healthcare provider in limited circumstances. We also have a small number of direct pay arrangements where the provider may agree to pay us a specific amount and take on the billing obligation (and associated risk of payment) for the testing performed for that customers patients, or where a third-party advocacy group or government agency has arranged for and agreed to pay for testing. Laboratory tests such as our genomic tests, as with most other healthcare services, are classified for reimbursement purposes under a coding system maintained by the American Medical Association known as current procedure terminology, or CPT, which we use to bill and receive reimbursement for our tests. CPT codes are associated with the particular test that we have provided to the patient, but do not always precisely describe the testing offered. 35 Once the American Medical Association establishes a CPT code, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, establish payment levels and coverage rules under Medicare (sometimes through national coverage determinations, or NCDs), although it delegates some of that authority to local Medicare administrative contractors, or MACs, who may have local coverage determinations, or LCDs, in place. Private payers establish their rates and coverage rules independently. As of December 31, 2024, we had received payment on approximately 55% of our clinical oncology NGS tests across all payers performed from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023. We calculated this metric on a trailing basis based on payer adjudication timing. However, we continued to perform our NGS tests through December 31, 2024. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, our average reimbursement for NGS tests in oncology was approximately $1,510 and $1,450, respectively. Our strategy to improve reimbursement is as follows: Continue to work with NGS, our local MAC in Chicago, to maintain coverage of current assays, obtain coverage of new assays through engagement and reconsideration requests, and to continue various appeals when coverage is denied. Continue to work with our new MAC, Palmetto, which covers our tests when performed out of our newest lab in Raleigh, North Carolina, to get the technical assessment of our assays approved and coverage policy in place for reimbursement. Continue to seek FDA approval of additional assays. Continue to work with commercial payers to both get in network and get our assay approved and reimbursement at a higher rate than it currently is. At present, we have a team that is dedicated to the above, and if we are successful we would expect our reimbursement per assay to be more in line with other NGS providers who have adopted similar strategies, such as FMI and Guardant. Algos Because we expect the Algos we bring to market to provide value to a wide variety of stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem, we anticipate that the payment we may be able to obtain will vary substantially. Value obtained is likely to depend on the nature of the underlying product or service developed, as well as the disease area and manner in which the product or service is made available. For example, while the current HRD and TO offerings are point-of-care ordered, and are reimbursed through our xR assay, we do not expect to be limited only to payment and reimbursement through the typical fee-for-service reimbursement model based solely on point-of-care clinical testing. We may also develop Algos in combination with life sciences companies in which we are paid directly or through alternative payment structures. In sum, we expect that reimbursement for our Genomics products and Algos may provide value to, and potentially be paid for by, pharmaceutical companies, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, large employers, and integrated delivery network health systems, in addition to being reimbursed by government healthcare programs, private insurers and other third-party payers. Those arrangements may take many forms. Pharmaceutical companies have expressed interest in using some of our Algos to better identify, screen, stratify, and enroll patients in clinical trials, payers have expressed interest in Algos that could assist them in value-based care initiatives that reduce spending waste in the healthcare system, and large health systems have expressed interest in certain population health screening Algos that could assist them in providing higher quality care, better outcomes for patients, and/or in reducing costs. Operations We currently perform our laboratory tests, including our NGS and anatomic pathology tests in our clinical laboratories in Chicago, Atlanta, Raleigh and Aliso Viejo. Our Chicago, Atlanta, Raleigh, and Aliso Viejo laboratories are CAP-accredited and CLIA-certified, and licensed in other states including New York, California, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island. 36 The scale our laboratories have been able to achieve in the approximately 9 year period since we ran our first clinical test is a direct result of the quality and experience of our laboratory staff, our investment in technologies in the laboratory that assist with automation and workflow improvements, and the ability of our engineering staff to build fit for purpose applications in a rapid development environment to support the laboratorys evolving needs. Our leadership staff in laboratory operations has decades of experience in running high-quality, high-throughput assays and have been instrumental in putting in place the necessary standard operating procedures to perform the volume of testing we do in a repeatable, reliable manner while constantly looking for opportunities to improve and refine our processes. The workflows in our laboratory are designed for high-throughput testing and numerous steps in the process are fully automated or semi-automated using robotics and other advanced workflow technologies. At present, for our xT and xF tests, our laboratory workflows enable us to successfully deliver results over 96% of the time, assuming tissue is received that meets the minimum requirements we have outlined for our assays. Our investments have allowed us to continuously drive turnaround time downward, to provide results to doctors and their patients in a timeframe that we believe now meets or exceeds many of our competitors who have been operating in the NGS space for longer. As of December 31, 2024, our average turnaround time for our xT assays was approximately nine days, and our average turnaround time for xF was approximately eight days. We believe that the strong foundational infrastructure in our laboratory operations, along with the technology used in our lab and the engineering expertise we have on hand is further differentiated when coupled with the connections we can rapidly deploy with our customers, and the experienced research scientists and doctors we employ, who are able to design and refine our highest volume assays in-house. We believe this unique combination will continue to allow us to rapidly respond to the changing needs of our customers and evolving market conditions. Our Strategic Collaborations AstraZeneca Master Services Agreement In November 2021, we entered into a Master Services Agreement, or, as amended in October 2022, February 2023 and December 2023, the MSA, with, and issued a warrant to, AstraZeneca. Under the MSA, we agreed, on a non-exclusive basis, to provide AstraZeneca with certain of our products and services, including licensed data, sequencing, clinical trial matching, organoid modeling services, algorithm development, and others. In exchange for certain discounted prices, AstraZeneca has committed to spend a minimum of $220 million on such products and services during the term of the MSA. The minimum commitment may increase to $320 million, if the average closing price of our Class A common stock exceeds two times the IPO price (as defined below) for any 30-day trading period following the one-year anniversary of the initial public offering of our Class A common stock, or our IPO. The term of the master services agreement will continue through December 31, 2028, unless terminated sooner. Under the warrant, AstraZeneca had the right to purchase up to $100 million in shares of our Class A common stock at an exercise price equal to $37 per share, representing the offering price in our IPO, or the IPO price. The warrant was exercisable through December 31, 2026. Under the terms of the warrant, AstraZeneca would be entitled to substantially the same registration rights with respect to the shares under the warrant as those granted to holders of registrable securities pursuant to our Ninth Amended and Restated Investors Rights Agreement, dated November 19, 2020. The warrant was automatically cancelled and terminated for no consideration as AstraZeneca declined to extend its financial commitment before December 31, 2024. GSK Master Services Agreement In August 2022, we entered into a Strategic Collaboration Agreement, or, as amended in May 2024, the GSK Agreement, with GSK. Under the GSK Agreement, we agreed, on a non-exclusive basis, to provide GSK with certain of our products and services, including licensed data, sequencing, clinical trial matching, organoid modeling services, algorithm development, and others. In exchange for certain discounted prices, GSK has committed to spend a minimum of $180 million on such products and services during the term of the GSK Agreement, of which $70 million was paid upon execution. The term of the GSK Agreement will continue through December 31, 2027, unless terminated sooner. An additional commitment of up to $120 million may be triggered at GSKs election for the years 2028, 2029 and 2030. 37 Recursion Master Agreement In November 2023, we entered into a Master Agreement, or the Recursion Agreement, with Recursion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Recursion. Under the Recursion Agreement, we agreed to provide certain of our services and to license certain data to Recursion, including a limited right to access our proprietary database of de-identified clinical and molecular data for certain therapeutic product development purposes. In exchange for these rights, Recursion will pay an initial license fee of $22 million and an annual license fee throughout the term of the agreement, which, together with the initial license fee, totals up to $160 million. The term of the Recursion Agreement will continue through November 3, 2028, unless terminated sooner. In addition to mutual rights to terminate for an uncured breach of the Recursion Agreement, Recursion may terminate the agreement for convenience after three years upon 90 days prior notice, subject to payment by Recursion of an early termination fee. The initial license fee and each annual license fee are payable at Recursions option either in the form of (x) cash, (y) shares of Recursions Class A common stock, or (z) a combination of cash and shares of Recursions Class A common stock in such proportion as is determined by Recursion in its sole discretion; provided that the aggregate number of shares of Recursions Class A common stock to be issued to us under the Recursion Agreement shall not exceed 19.9% of the aggregate total of shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock outstanding on November 3, 2023, or the date immediately preceding the date of any shares of Class A common stock issued pursuant to the Recursion Agreement, whichever is less. We have customary registration rights with respect to any shares of Recursions Class A common stock issued pursuant to the Recursion Agreement. Quality Assurance We are committed to providing reliable and accurate molecular information to our customers. We have established sophisticated laboratory workflows and automated procedures to ensure accurate specimen identification, timely communication of results, and prompt discovery and correction of errors. We monitor our quality through a variety of methods, including objectively measured performance improvement indicators. Any quality concerns and incidents are subject to risk assessment, root cause analysis, and corrective action plans. Safeguarding protected health information, or PHI, is of primary importance. We have established a comprehensive quality assurance program for our laboratory. Our quality assurance program includes policies and procedures covering personnel qualifications and training requirements, process and test validation, quality control of reagents and test processes, proficiency testing, routine monitoring, and internal audit. We have implemented policies and procedures to adhere to applicable requirements necessary for federal and state licenses and accreditation for clinical diagnostic laboratories, including policies and procedures related to patient and employee safety, hazardous waste disposal, and general laboratory management. Supply Chain We have a highly automatic system in place to manage our workflow called LIMS, which also connects to our various supply chain systems through which we ensure materials our ordered in a timely manner, and the logistics of each order are overseen to ensure we are delivering orders, in the shortest time possible, with the highest quality possible. We maintain significant inventory on hand of both laboratory consumables and other materials to avoid work stoppages and/or material delays. Our systems, processes, and procedures are designed to scale, as evidenced by the fact that we have become one of the largest sequences of cancer patients in the United States in just a few years. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, or, in some cases, sole suppliers to provide our products and services. Illumina, Inc., is our primary supplier of sequencers and laboratory reagents; however, we purchase laboratory supplies from other companies as well, such as Roche Holdings, Inc., Integrated DNA Technologies, and PerkinsElmer. We rely on standard commercial carriers for the delivery of samples to our laboratories. In June 2021, we entered into a supply agreement with Illumina to provide products and services that can be used for certain research and clinical activities, including certain sequencers, reagents, and other consumables for use with the Illumina sequencers, as well as service contracts for the maintenance and repair of the sequencers. The supply agreement does not require us to order minimum amounts of hardware, or to use exclusively the Illumina platform for conducting our sequencing. The term of the supply agreement continues for a period of 12 years, unless either we or Illumina terminate the supply agreement for the others uncured material breach, bankruptcy or insolvency-related events, or in the event a regulatory authority notifies such party that continued performance under the supply agreement would violate applicable laws 38 or regulations. Illumina may terminate the agreement in the event we consummate a change of control transaction with a sequencing products company, and we may terminate the supply agreement for convenience upon 90 days prior written notice. In addition to suppliers who provide products supporting our provision of laboratory tests, we have cloud agreements with both AWS and Google. In June 2020, we signed a multi-year strategic partnership with Google that included an agreement through which Tempus procures extensive cloud services from Google. The cloud agreement includes a convertible note that is reduced as we procure services from Google and also contemplates co-innovation projects that we may work on with Google from time to time. Laboratory Workflow Applications With respect to the provision of laboratory services, in addition to Hub, our consumer- facing application, we have developed multiple software tools that facilitate back-end processing, workflow, and report generation. Our back-office software stack was custom developed around our workflow, allowing us to automate material components of our laboratory and order generation process. The following diagram represents the software applications supporting our laboratory workflow. We have also developed a series of tools that allow us to access our connected dataset and our internal workflow tools, as we seek to query our own data and make it available both internally and externally. In an effort to facilitate a connection between our providers and our data, we built an application called Tempus One, which is both a physical device and a mobile software application that has AI assistant capabilities and relays information contained in our oncology reports and supporting database to physicians through voice activated interactions in real time. We believe Tempus One has the potential to create a more efficient workflow for healthcare professionals, reducing the time needed to review and process information, providing more time for them to focus on patient care. Over time, we intend to embed more insights into Tempus One, and other similar applications we develop, thereby enhancing the amount of information readily available to our ordering physicians. 39 Data Structuring Applications After we generate a clinical report through the provision of laboratory services, or once we obtain data through one of our dedicated connections to providers, we utilize a different suite of proprietary software applications to abstract, structure, and de-identify the resulting data to help augment our existing multimodal dataset and provide additional healthcare services to our customers. Our tools have become highly efficient over time allowing us to abstract data, often between 50-100 discrete data elements per patient case, in approximately an hour (or the cost equivalent), which do both onshore and offshore through dedicated teams we have established to perform the data curation and abstraction. In addition, we have the capability to perform enhanced abstraction, which can take several hours per patient case, allowing us to define a custom set of features over a defined period of time that we want abstracted. Each of our proprietary tools is designed to enhance our customers experience, either by creating useful information that assists in the treatment of patients, or by creating an efficient back-end infrastructure that allows us to deliver our services more quickly and efficiently. Information Security We endeavor to maintain a robust information security program in an effort to protect all of the sensitive data we maintain, including PHI and PII and we take all threats to the availability, integrity and confidentiality of that data with the utmost seriousness. Our security program consists of a layered defense approach starting with appropriate data and system design through architectural principles that include security as a core component at every step of the process. This security by design approach is enhanced with physical security, host and endpoint device management, application security, and infrastructure and cloud security. In each of those areas, we utilize industry-standard third-party tools that are designed to assist our team of security professionals in their various tasks and we work closely with our vendors, including those who provide cloud computing services that make up substantial parts of our infrastructure (e.g., Google and Amazon). Our security program is operationalized through documented policies, procedures and required training for all staff in the entire company, with special emphasis on key teams in engineering and IT operations who develop, monitor and maintain the applications and systems used in our business. In an effort to ensure that these policies are adhered to and that no new vulnerabilities arise, we conduct regular auditing of a wide swath of our security related measures, including a mix of self-audits, external penetration testing, external application security audits and audits performed by our customers and partners. Our security team is also instrumental in maintaining our ISO 27001 certification and assisting the compliance and legal teams with other legally required audits and provides detailed reports regularly to upper management and the Board on security related matters. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property and proprietary protection for our products and technology, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets, and operate without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating valid and enforceable intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. We are actively involved in research and development and therefore seek to protect the investments we have made into the development of our products and technology by relying on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and license agreements. We also seek to protect our proprietary technology, in part, by requiring our employees, consultants, contractors and other third parties to execute confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements and by implementing technological protections for our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2024, our patent portfolio and patent applications included 96 issued U.S. patents and allowed applications, 130 pending U.S. non-provisional patent applications, 8 pending U.S. provisional patent applications, 9 pending Patent Cooperation Treaty (international) patent applications, 33 issued foreign patents, 189 pending foreign patent applications, 6 licensed issued U.S. patents, 4 licensed pending U.S. patent application, 10 licensed issued foreign patents and 2 licensed pending foreign patent applications. Our issued patents are expected to begin expiring in 2033, assuming payment of all appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees. These patents and applications generally fall into four broad categories: applications and patents relating to our Platform, including claims directed to product ordering processes; data processing and multimodal data analytics; applications and patents relating to our Genomics business, including claims directed to detecting and monitoring cancer and other diseases by determining genetic variations and other biomarkers in biological samples; 40 applications and patents relating to our Data business, including claims directed to analysis of healthcare records and patient outcomes; and applications and patents related to our Algos business, including claims directed to machine learning diagnostics and predictions in cancer and cardiology. The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file or intend to file, including the United States, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application. Additionally, a U.S. provisional patent application expires twelve months from its filing date, and its subject matter can only be claimed in an issued patent if, among other things, we timely file a non-provisional patent application making a valid priority claim to that provisional patent application before it expires. In the United States, a patents term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the USPTO in examining and granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over an earlier filed patent. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any current pending patent application or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future, nor can we be sure that any current or future patents will be commercially useful in protecting our platform, products, services, technologies and processes. In addition, any patents that we may hold, whether owned or licensed, may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. The success of our business strategy also depends in part on our continued ability to protect our branded services, and we own registered trademarks on TEMPUS and product related brand names in the United States and worldwide. We also rely on trade secrets, including know-how, unpatented technology and other proprietary information, to strengthen our competitive position. We seek to protect trade secrets and confidential and unpatented know-how, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to such knowledge, such as our employees, collaborators, manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also seek to enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to maintain confidentiality and assign their inventions to us. Our ability to stop third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our Platform, services and products depends on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property and proprietary rights that cover these activities. We pursue intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would advance our business objectives. Notwithstanding these efforts, there can be no assurance that we will adequately protect our intellectual property or provide any competitive advantage. For more information regarding risks relating to intellectual property, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Government Regulation Regulation of Medical Devices in the United States Our diagnostic products and services are subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 and its implementing regulations, collectively referred to as the FDCA, as well as other federal and state regulatory bodies in the United States. The laws and regulations govern, among other things, product design and development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, record keeping and reporting, clearance or approval, marketing, distribution, promotion, import and export and post-marketing surveillance. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may subject a device and/or its manufacturer to a variety of administrative sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending premarket applications, issuance of warning letters, mandatory product recalls, import detentions, civil monetary penalties, and/or judicial sanctions, such as product seizures, injunctions and criminal prosecution. FDA Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements Unless an exemption applies, each medical device commercially distributed in the United States requires either FDA clearance of a 510(k) premarket notification, approval of a petition for premarket approval, or PMA, or grant of a de novo request for classification. During public emergencies, the FDA also may grant emergency use authorizations, or EUA, to allow commercial distribution of devices intended to address the public health emergency. Under the FDCA, medical devices 41 are classified into one of three classesClass I, Class II or Class IIIdepending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of manufacturer and regulatory control needed to provide reasonable assurance of its safety and effectiveness. Classification of a device is important because the class to which a device is assigned determines, among other things, the necessity and type of FDA review required prior to marketing the device. Class I devices include those with the lowest risk to the patient and are those for which safety and effectiveness can be reasonably assured by adherence to the FDAs general controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDAs Quality System Regulation, or QSR, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events and malfunctions through the submission of Medical Device Reports, or MDRs, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials. Some Class I devices also require 510(k) premarket notification clearance as described below. Class II devices are moderate risk devices subject to the FDAs general controls, and any other special controls deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, such as performance standards, product-specific guidance documents, special labeling requirements, patient registries or post-market surveillance. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) process. The 510(k) submission must demonstrate that the device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device, which in some cases may require submission of clinical data. Class III devices include devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices and devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a predicate device following a 510(k) submission. The safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be reasonably assured solely by general or special controls. Submission and FDA approval of a PMA application is required before marketing of a Class III device can proceed. A PMA application is intended to demonstrate that the device is reasonably safe and effective for its intended use and must be supported by extensive data, typically including data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Emergency Use Authorization In emergency situations, such as a pandemic, the FDA has the authority to allow unapproved medical products or unapproved uses of cleared or approved medical products to be used in an emergency to diagnose, treat or prevent serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions when there are no adequate, approved, and available alternatives. Under this authority, the FDA may issue an EUA for an unapproved device if the following four statutory criteria have been met: (1) a serious or life-threatening condition exists; (2) evidence of effectiveness of the device exists; (3) a risk-benefit analysis shows that the benefits of the product outweigh the risks; and (4) no other alternatives exist for diagnosing, preventing or treating the disease or condition. Evidence of effectiveness includes medical devices that may be effective to prevent, diagnose, or treat the disease or condition identified in a declaration of emergency issued by the Secretary of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS. The may be effective standard for EUAs requires a lower level of evidence than the effectiveness standard that the FDA uses for product clearances or approvals in non-emergency situations. Once granted, an EUA will remain in effect and generally terminate on the earlier of (1) the determination by the Secretary of U.S. HHS that the public health emergency has ceased or (2) a change in the approval status of the product such that the authorized use(s) of the product are no longer unapproved. After the EUA is no longer valid, the product is no longer considered to be legally marketed and one of the FDAs non-emergency premarket pathways would be necessary to resume or continue distribution of the subject product. The FDA also may revise or revoke an EUA if the circumstances justifying its issuance no longer exist, the criteria for its issuance are no longer met, or other circumstances make a revision or revocation appropriate to protect the public health or safety. Clinical Trials Clinical trials are typically required to support a PMA and are sometimes required to support a 510(k) submission. All clinical investigations of devices to determine safety and effectiveness must be conducted in accordance with the FDAs investigational device exemption, or IDE, regulations which govern investigational device labeling, prohibit promotion of the investigational device, and specify an array of recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring responsibilities of study 42 sponsors and study investigators. If the device presents a significant risk to human health, the FDA requires the device sponsor to submit an IDE application to the FDA, which must be approved prior to commencing clinical trials. A significant risk device is one that presents a potential for serious risk to the health, safety or welfare of a patient and either is implanted, purported or represented to be used in supporting or sustaining human life, is for a use that is substantially important in diagnosing, curing, mitigating or treating disease or otherwise preventing impairment of human health, or otherwise presents a potential for serious risk to a subject. An IDE supplement must be submitted to, and approved by, the FDA before a sponsor or investigator may make a change to the investigational plan that may affect its scientific soundness, study plan or the rights, safety or welfare of human subjects. In addition, the clinical trials must be approved by, and conducted under the oversight of, an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site. The IRB is responsible for the initial and continuing review of the IDE and may pose additional requirements for the conduct of the study. If an IDE application is approved by the FDA and one or more IRBs, clinical trials may begin at a specific number of investigational sites with a specific number of patients, as approved by the FDA. If the device is considered a non-significant risk, IDE submission to FDA is not required. Instead, only approval from the IRB overseeing the investigation at each clinical trial site is required. Post-market Regulation After a device is cleared or approved for marketing, numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: establishment of registration and device listing with the FDA; QSR requirements, which require manufacturers and contract manufacturers, including any third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the design and manufacturing process; labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of investigational products, or off-label uses of cleared or approved products; requirements related to promotional activities; clearance or approval of product modifications to 510(k)-cleared devices that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in intended use of a cleared device; medical device reporting regulations, which require that a manufacturer report to the FDA if a device it markets may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned and the device or a similar device that it markets would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, if the malfunction were to recur; correction, removal and recall reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections, product removals or recalls if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health; the FDAs recall authority, whereby the agency can order device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; and post-market surveillance activities and regulations, which apply when deemed by the FDA to be necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. The FDA has broad regulatory compliance and enforcement powers. If the FDA determines that we failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it can take a variety of compliance or enforcement actions, which may result in any of the following sanctions: untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds; recall, withdrawal, administrative detention or seizure; 43 operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusal of or delay in granting our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new tests or modified tests; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals that are already granted; refusal to grant export approval; or criminal prosecution. Laboratory-Developed Tests (LDTs) LDTs have generally been considered to be tests that are designed, developed, validated and used within a single laboratory. The FDA takes the position that it has the authority to regulate such tests as medical devices under the FDCA. The FDA has historically exercised enforcement discretion and has not required clearance or approval of LDTs prior to marketing. On May 6, 2024, the FDA published final regulations that took effect on July 5, 2024 that will phase-out enforcement discretion over a period of four years and require compliance with device registration and listing requirements, medical device reporting requirements, 510(k) clearance, denovo authorization or Premarket Approval and the requirements of the FDAs Quality System Regulation. In addition to FDA regulation, the New York Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program separately approves certain LDTs offered to New York State patients. CLIA and State Laboratory Licensing Under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, or CLIA, a laboratory is any facility that performs laboratory testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease, or the impairment of or assessment of health. CLIA requires that a laboratory hold a certificate applicable to the type of laboratory examinations it performs and that it complies with, among other things, standards covering operations, personnel, facilities administration, quality systems and proficiency testing, which are intended to ensure, among other things, that clinical laboratory testing services are accurate, reliable and timely. We have a current CLIA certificate to perform our tests at our laboratories in Chicago, Illinois, Atlanta, Georgia, Raleigh, North Carolina, and Aliso Viejo, California. To renew our CLIA certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years to assess compliance with program standards. Laboratories performing high complexity testing are required to meet more stringent requirements than laboratories performing less complex tests. In addition, a laboratory that is certified as high complexity under CLIA may develop, manufacture, validate and use LDTs. CLIA requires analytical validation including accuracy, precision, specificity, sensitivity and establishment of a reference range for any LDT used in clinical testing. The regulatory and compliance standards applicable to the testing we perform may change over time and any such changes could have a material effect on our business. CLIA provides that a state may adopt laboratory regulations that are more stringent than those under federal law, and a number of states have implemented their own more stringent laboratory regulatory requirements. State laws may require that nonresident laboratories, or out-of-state laboratories, maintain an in-state laboratory license to perform tests on samples from patients who reside in that state. As a condition of state licensure, these state laws may require that laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality control procedures or facility requirements or prescribe record maintenance requirements. Failure to comply with CLIA certification and state clinical laboratory licensure requirements may result in a range of enforcement actions, including certificate or license suspension, limitation, or revocation, directed plan of action, onsite monitoring, civil monetary penalties, criminal sanctions, and revocation of the laboratorys approval to receive Medicare and Medicaid payment for its services, as well as significant adverse publicity. The College of American Pathologists, or CAP, maintains a clinical laboratory accreditation program. While not required to operate a CLIA-certified laboratory, many private insurers require CAP accreditation as a condition to contracting with clinical laboratories to cover their tests. In addition, some countries outside the United States require CAP accreditation as a condition to permitting clinical laboratories to test samples taken from their citizens. We have obtained CAP 44 accreditation for our Chicago, Illinois, Atlanta, Georgia, Raleigh, North Carolina, and Aliso Viejo, California laboratories. In order to maintain CAP accreditation, we are subject to survey for compliance with CAP standards every two years. Failure to maintain CAP accreditation could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our tests and the results of our operations. Federal and State Health Care Laws Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition We are also subject to the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and to comparable state laws. Together these restrictions generally prohibit us from billing a patient or governmental or private payer for certain designated health services, including clinical laboratory services, when the physician ordering the service, or a member of such physicians immediate family, has a financial relationship, such as an ownership or investment interest in or compensation arrangement, with us, unless the relationship meets an applicable exception to the prohibition. Several Stark Law exceptions are relevant to many common financial relationships involving clinical laboratories and referring physicians, including: (1) fair market value compensation for the provision of items or services; (2) payments by physicians to a laboratory for clinical laboratory services; (3) space and equipment rental arrangements that satisfy certain requirements and (4) personal services arrangements that satisfy certain requirements. The laboratory cannot submit claims to the Medicare Part B program for services furnished in violation of the Stark Law, and Medicaid reimbursements may be at risk as well. These prohibitions apply regardless of any intent by the parties to induce or reward referrals or the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral. Penalties for violating the Stark Law include significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, such as the return of funds received for all prohibited referrals, fines, civil monetary penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs, integrity oversight and reporting obligations, and imprisonment. In addition, knowing violations of the Stark Law may also serve as the basis for liability under the federal False Claims Act, or FCA, which can result in additional civil and criminal penalties. Federal Anti-Kickback Law The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, or AKS, makes it a felony for a person or entity, including a clinical laboratory, to knowingly and willfully offer, pay, solicit or receive any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in order to induce business that is reimbursable under any federal health care program. The government may also assert that a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the AKS constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the FCA, which is discussed in greater detail below. Additionally, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Although the AKS applies only to items and services reimbursable under any federal health care program, a number of states have passed statutes substantially similar to the AKS that apply to all payers. Penalties for violations of such state laws include imprisonment and significant monetary fines. Federal and state law enforcement authorities scrutinize arrangements between health care providers and potential referral sources to ensure that the arrangements are not designed as a mechanism to induce patient care referrals or induce the purchase or prescribing of particular products or services. Generally, courts have taken a broad interpretation of the scope of the AKS, holding that the statute may be violated if merely one purpose of a payment arrangement is to induce referrals or purchases. In addition to statutory exceptions to the AKS, regulations provide for a number of safe harbors. If an arrangement meets the provisions of an applicable exception or safe harbor, it is deemed not to violate the AKS. An arrangement must fully comply with each element of an applicable exception or safe harbor in order to qualify for protection. Failure to meet the requirements of the safe harbor, however, does not render an arrangement illegal. Rather, the government may evaluate such arrangements on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all facts and circumstances. Other Health Care Laws In addition to the requirements discussed above, several other health care fraud and abuse laws could have an effect on our business. The FCA prohibits, among other things, a person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval and from making, using, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim in order to secure payment or retain an overpayment by the federal government. In addition to actions initiated by the government itself, the statute authorizes actions to be brought on behalf of the federal government by a private party having knowledge of the alleged fraud. Because the complaint is initially filed under seal, the action may be pending for some time before the defendant is even aware of the action. If the government intervenes and is 45 ultimately successful in obtaining redress in the matter or if the plaintiff succeeds in obtaining redress without the governments involvement, then the plaintiff will receive a percentage of the recovery. Finally, the Social Security Act includes its own provisions that prohibit the filing of false claims or submitting false statements in order to obtain payment. Several states have enacted comparable false claims laws which may be broader in scope and apply regardless of payer. The Social Security Act includes civil monetary penalty provisions that impose penalties against any person or entity that, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. In addition, a person who offers or provides to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary any remuneration, including waivers of co-payments and deductible amounts (or any part thereof), that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiarys selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services may be liable under the civil monetary penalties statute. Moreover, in certain cases, providers who routinely waive copayments and deductibles for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, for example, in connection with patient assistance programs, can also be held liable under the AKS and FCA. One of the statutory exceptions to the prohibition is non-routine, unadvertised waivers of copayments or deductible amounts based on individualized determinations of financial need or exhaustion of reasonable collection efforts. The Office of Inspector General of the HHS emphasizes, however, that this exception should only be used occasionally to address special financial needs of a particular patient. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Like the AKS, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. The Eliminating Kickbacks in Recovery Act of 2018, or EKRA, prohibits knowingly and willfully soliciting or receiving any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate) directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in return for referring a patient or patronage to a laboratory; or paying or offering any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate) directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce a referral of an individual to a laboratory or in exchange for an individual using the services of that laboratory. EKRA was enacted to help reduce opioid-related fraud and abuse. However, EKRA defines the term laboratory broadly and without reference to any connection to substance use disorder treatment. The EKRA applies to all payers including commercial payers and government payers. Violations of EKRA are subject to significant fines and/or up to ten years in jail, separate and apart from existing AKS regulations and penalties. The law includes a limited number of exceptions, some of which closely align with corresponding AKS exceptions and safe harbors, and others that materially differ. Currently, there is no regulation interpreting or implementing EKRA, nor any guidance released by a federal agency regarding the scope of EKRA. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, impose obligations on covered entities, including certain healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their respective business associates and covered subcontractors that create, receive, maintain or transmit individually identifiable health information for or on behalf of a covered entity, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Additionally, HITECH created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in U.S. federal courts to enforce HIPAA and seek attorneys fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. The Physician Payments Sunshine Act, enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the ACA, also imposed annual reporting requirements on manufacturers of certain devices, drugs and biologics for payments and other transfers of value by them during the previous year to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors), other healthcare professionals (such as physician assistants and nurse practitioners) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by such physicians and their immediate family members. Also, many states have laws similar to those listed above that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payer. 46 Efforts to ensure that our internal operations and business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable laws and regulations involve substantial costs. Any action brought against us for violation of these or other laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our managements attention from the operation of our business. Additionally, certain of our business practices, including our consulting and advisory board arrangements with physicians and other healthcare providers, a small number of whom may receive stock or restricted stock units, or RSUs, as compensation for services provided, may not comply with current or future corporate practice of medicine statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the fraud and abuse laws described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including potentially significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, integrity oversight and reporting obligations, limitations to the sale of certain products or services, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Data Privacy and Security In the ordinary course of our business, we may process personal or sensitive data. Accordingly, we are, and may in the future become, subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, standards, and guidance regarding data privacy and security. Such obligations may include, without limitation, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography And Marketing Act of 2003, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, the Canadian Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, Canadas Anti-Spam Legislation, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679, or EU GDPR, the EU GDPR as it forms part of United Kingdom, or UK law by virtue of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 or UK GDPR, the ePrivacy Directive, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS. In addition, HIPAA, as mentioned above, imposes privacy, security and breach reporting obligations with respect to individually identifiable health information upon "covered entities" (health plans, health care clearinghouses and certain health care providers), and their respective business associates, individuals or entities that create, received, maintain or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. HIPAA mandates the reporting of certain breaches of health information to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, affected individuals and if the breach is large enough, the media. Entities that are found to be in violation of HIPAA, including as the result of a breach of unsecured PHI, a complaint about privacy practices or an audit by HHS, may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative fines and penalties and/or additional reporting and oversight obligations if required to enter into a resolution agreement and corrective action plan with HHS to settle allegations of HIPAA non-compliance. Even when HIPAA does not apply, failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers personal information secure may constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C 45(a). The FTC expects a companys data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. Personally identifiable health information is considered sensitive data that merits stronger safeguards. The FTCs guidance for appropriately securing consumers personal information is similar to what is required by the HIPAA Security Rule. In addition, certain state laws govern the privacy and security of personal information, including health information in certain circumstances, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA and many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. Failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws, where applicable, can result in material adverse effects to our business, including the imposition of significant civil and/or criminal penalties and private litigation. Numerous U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. As applicable, such rights may include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt-out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making. The exercise of these rights may impact our business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the CCPA, applies to personal data of consumers, business representatives, and employees who are California residents, and requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and honor requests of such individuals to exercise certain privacy rights. The CCPA provides for fines and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. 47 Outside the United States, there are an increasing number of laws and regulations governing the collection, use and processing of personal data. For example, under the EU GDPR, companies may face temporary or definitive bans on data processing and other corrective actions; fines of up to 20 million Euros under the EU GDPR, 17.5 million pounds sterling under the UK GDPR or, in each case, 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater; or private litigation related to processing of personal data brought by classes of data subjects or consumer protection organizations authorized at law to represent their interests. For more information regarding risks relating to data privacy and security, see Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated IndustryWe and the third parties with whom we work are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and rules, contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to data privacy and security. Our (or the third parties with whom we work) actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation (including class claims) and mass arbitration demands; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. Health Reform In March 2010, the ACA became law. This law substantially changed the way health care is financed by both commercial payers and government payers, and significantly impacted our industry. The ACA contains a number of provisions that impacted existing state and federal healthcare programs or result in the development of new programs, including those governing enrollments in state and federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse. Since its enactment, there have been efforts to repeal, replace, and amend all or part of the ACA. For example, on August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, or IRA, was signed into law, which among other things extends enhanced subsidies for individuals purchasing health insurance coverage in the ACA marketplaces through plan year 2025. The IRA also eliminates the donut hole under the Medicare Part D program beginning in 2025 by significantly lowering the beneficiary maximum out-of-pocket cost and establishing a new manufacturer discount program. It is unclear how any such challenges and litigation, and the healthcare reform measures of the second Trump administration will impact the ACA. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was signed into law, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to providers by 2% per fiscal year, effective on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2032, unless additional Congressional action is taken. We expect that additional state, federal, and foreign healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, particularly in light of the recent U.S. Presidential and Congressional elections. Coverage and Reimbursement The availability and extent of reimbursement by governmental and private payers is essential for most patients to be able to afford our current and future diagnostic products. Each payer makes its own decision as to whether to provide coverage for our tests, whether to enter into a contract with us and the reimbursement rate for a test. Coverage determinations by a payer may depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to a payers determination that a test is appropriate, medically necessary or cost-effective. Negotiating with payers is time-consuming, and payers often insist on their standard form contracts, which may allow payers to terminate coverage on short notice, impose significant obligations on us and create additional regulatory and compliance hurdles for us. Further, when we contract with a payer as a participating provider, reimbursements by the payer are generally made pursuant to a negotiated fee schedule and are limited to only covered indications or where prior approval has been obtained. Becoming a participating provider can result in higher reimbursement amounts for covered uses of our tests and, potentially, no reimbursement for non-covered uses identified under the payers policies or the contract. Although we are a participating provider with several commercial payers, some large commercial payers have issued non-coverage policies that consider tissue and liquid comprehensive genomic profile testing, including certain of our Genomics tests, as experimental or investigational. 48 In the United States, many significant decisions about reimbursement for new diagnostics are made by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, which makes a national coverage determination, or NCD, as to whether and to what extent a new diagnostic will be covered and reimbursed under Medicare, although it frequently delegates this authority to local Medicare Administrative Contractors, or MACs, which may make a local coverage determination, or LCD, with respect to coverage and reimbursement. Private payers tend to follow Medicare to a substantial degree. During the year ended December 31, 2024, Medicare claims represented 26% of our clinical testing volume. Given we operate laboratories in multiple MACs and run both LDTs and an FDA-approved assay, the applicable reimbursement determination varies based on the assay being run and the locations where it is being processed. The rules and standards that CMS uses to determine reimbursement rates for our tests are frequently changing and subject to revision, which could have a material impact on our results. For example, Medicares NCD for NGS, first established in 2018 and subsequently updated in 2020, states that NGS oncology tests (such as our Tempus xT and Tempus xF tests), would be covered by Medicare nationally if and when: (1) performed in a CLIA-certified laboratory, (2) ordered by a treating physician, (3) the patient meets certain clinical and treatment criteria, including having recurrent, relapsed, refractory, metastatic, or advanced stages III or IV cancer, (4) the test is approved or cleared by the FDA as a companion in vitro diagnostic for an FDA approved or cleared indication for use in that patients cancer, and (5) results are provided to the treating physician for management of the patient using a report template to specify treatment options. We believe that our xT CDX assay, which received FDA approval in April 2023, will meet the criteria for reimbursement under the NCD. In addition, effective July 1, 2024, our xT CDX assay was awarded Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Test status by CMS. The NGS NCD also states that each MAC may provide local coverage of other NGS tests for cancer patients only when the test is performed by a CLIA-certified laboratory, ordered by a treating physician and the patient meets the same clinical and treatment criteria required of nationally covered NGS tests under the NGS NCD. An NGS typically test is not covered by Medicare when cancer patients do not have the above-noted indications for cancer under either an NCD or LCD. National Government Services, Inc. is the local MAC that makes local coverage determinations, or LCDs, for tests conducted at our Chicago laboratory. The Local MAC has issued two LCDs related to genetic testing in cancer, each of which currently requires claims to be submitted under a single CPT code that describes the test. Because no CPT code comprehensively describes our NGS oncology tests, we have historically submitted claims using individual codes based on the cancer subtype profiled. On March 25, 2021, the Local MAC instructed us to submit our claims using a different designated CPT code and indicated that such claims would be individually reviewed. In addition to claims submitted after the March 25, 2021 guidance, on July 23, 2021, the Local MAC issued revised instructions for CPT coding, which may be applicable to our NGS oncology tests performed after the date of the revised guidance, and further updated those instructions on July 29, 2021. On February 10, 2022, the Local MAC issued a revised LCD (L37810), and a corresponding Billing and Coding update (A56867). The increased scope of coverage provided for in the revised LCD will result in the CPT code they instructed us to begin billing in July 2021 being reimbursed at the prevailing Medicare rate for those tests which meet the revised coverage criteria. The modified LCD is effective April 1, 2022 and applies to genomic sequence analysis panel tests in the treatment of solid tumors, which primarily impacts our solid tumor assay, xT, given the modified scope of coverage in the revised LCD. Beginning January 1, 2023, a new CPT code went into effect covering full transcriptome testing when performed separately from DNA testing. Historically, our xT assay was actually comprised of two separate and distinct procedures, DNA and RNA. Given there was not an applicable CPT code for RNA, we did not bill that test. With the introduction of the new code, we now have two separate assays, one analyzing DNA xT and one analyzing RNA xR that are ordered and billed for separately. We requested that the Local MAC add the new CPT code to the LCD, which they did effective January 1, 2023. Palmetto is the MAC jurisdiction that determines reimbursement for tests conducted at our Raleigh and Atlanta laboratories through the MolDx program. MolDx requires laboratories to complete a technical assessment process in order to secure reimbursement for tests run at labs in its jurisdiction. Upon receiving approval in the technical assessment process, assays are assigned a z-code and a price at which MolDx will reimburse claims. In conjunction with launching our Raleigh laboratory, we submitted a technical assessment for our xT assay in 2022 and our xF assay in 2023. We received approval on our xT assay in October 2023 and on our xF assay in March 2024. 49 In addition, pursuant to the regulations of CMS, we cannot bill Medicare directly for tests provided for Medicare beneficiaries in some situations. CMS adopted an exception to its laboratory date of service regulation, and if certain conditions are met, molecular testing laboratories such as us can rely on that exception to bill Medicare directly, instead of seeking payment from the hospital. If this exception is repealed or curtailed by CMS, or its laboratory date of service regulation is otherwise changed to adversely impact our ability to bill Medicare directly, our revenue could be materially reduced. Furthermore, on September 27, 2023, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) published calendar year 2024 preliminary payment determinations for new and reconsidered codes on the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule (CLFS), including new codes that may apply to tests we offer through our Genomics business. In doing so, CMS rejected the recommendations from experts on the Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Test (CDLT) Advisory Panel and recommended reimbursement rates for several new procedure codes describing genomic profiling tests that are substantially below our costs to perform them. Following a comment period, CMS revised its preliminary determination and assigned each of the new codes to gapfilla process by which each of the individual MACs prices the codes, and the resulting median price across the MACs becomes the price on the Medicare CLFS. We are currently participating in the gapfill process with the MACs within which we operate. On May 1, 2024, CMS posted the MAC-specific payment recommendations which indicated that the codes applicable to our tests would be reimbursed at the same or a higher level than they were previously reimbursed. These recommendations were finalized in September and became effective January 1, 2024. Some payers have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, laboratory benefit management programs, often using third-party benefit managers to manage these programs. The stated goals of these programs are to help improve the quality of outpatient laboratory services, support evidence-based guidelines for patient care and lower costs. The impact on laboratories, such as us, of active laboratory benefit management by third parties is unclear, and we expect that it would have a negative impact on our revenue in the short term. Payers may resist reimbursement for our tests in favor of less expensive tests, require pre-authorization for our tests, or impose additional pricing pressure on and substantial administrative burden for reimbursement for our tests. We expect to continue to focus substantial resources on increasing adoption of, and coverage and reimbursement for, our current tests and any future tests we may develop. We believe it may take several years to achieve broad coverage and adequate contracted reimbursement with a majority of payers for our tests. However, coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more of our tests, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. We cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what price levels payers will cover and reimburse our tests. Outside the United States, the reimbursement process and timelines vary significantly. Certain countries, including a number of member states of the European Union, set prices and make reimbursement decisions for diagnostic products, with limited participation from the marketing authorization or CE mark holders, or may take decisions that are unfavorable to the authorization or CE mark holder where they have participated in the process. There can be no assurance that we can achieve acceptable prices and reimbursement decisions. Employees and Human Capital As of December 31, 2024, we had more than 2,400 employees, of which 776 were technical and were engaged in product and engineering, and research and development. As of December 31, 2024, 1,052 employees were based at our headquarters in Chicago, Illinois, 79 employees were based in Atlanta, Georgia, and 135 employees were based in Raleigh, North Carolina. None of our employees are currently represented by a labor union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. However, on February 8, 2024, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, or the IAM, District Lodge 8, filed a Petition for Election with the National Labor Relations Board, or the NLRB, to serve as the collective bargaining representative of certain of our laboratory employees located in Chicago, Illinois. On March 6 and 7, 2024, the NLRB held an election, at which the defined collective bargaining unit voted to unionize and for the IAM to serve as the collective bargaining representative. We have begun the process of negotiating a collective bargaining agreement with the IAM. Even though we are currently unaware of other unionization efforts, it is possible that other employees may also seek to unionize. We consider our relationship with our employees to be positive. Our human capital resources objectives include, as applicable, identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and additional employees. The principal purposes of our equity and other incentive plans are to attract, retain and reward personnel through the granting of stock-based and cash- based compensation awards, in order to increase stockholder value and the success of our company by motivating such individuals to perform to the best of their abilities and achieve our objectives. 50 Corporate Information We were founded by Eric Lefkofsky under the name Bioin, LLC in Delaware in August 2015. We converted to a Delaware corporation in September 2015 under the name Bioin, Inc., and later changed our name to Tempus Health, Inc. in 2015, to Tempus Labs, Inc. in 2016, and to Tempus AI, Inc. in 2023. Our principal executive offices are located at 600 West Chicago Avenue, Suite 510 Chicago, Illinois 60654, and our telephone number is (800) 976-5448. Our website address is www.tempus.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider information on our website to be part hereof. We completed our IPO in June 2024, and our Class A common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol TEM. The Tempus logo, Tempus and our other registered and common law trade names, trademarks and service marks are the property of Tempus AI, Inc. or our subsidiaries. Other trade names, trademarks and service marks used herein are the property of their respective owners. Additional Information We intend to announce material information to the public through filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, on the investor relations page of our website, which is located at investors.tempus.com, press releases, public conference calls and public webcasts. The information disclosed through the foregoing channels could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above and to review the information disclosed through such channels. We file electronically with the SEC, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make available on our investor relations website, free of charge, copies of these reports and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings at www.sec.gov. Information found on, or accessible through these websites is not part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file. Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, reputation, and prospects. In such an event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described more fully below in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following is a summary of principal risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. This summary should be read in conjunction with the rest of Item 1A. Risk Factors and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks and uncertainties facing our business. We have incurred significant losses since inception, we may continue to incur losses in the future, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. Our current or future products may not achieve or maintain sufficient commercial market acceptance. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or any guidance we may provide. The success of our business depends on our continued access to, and ability to monetize, de-identified patient data. Our limited operating history and rapid growth make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. 51 We may need to raise additional capital to fund our existing operations, develop our Platform, commercialize new products or expand our operations. Our AI Applications product line is nascent. Our diagnostic products, or our competitors diagnostic products, could have defects or errors or otherwise fail to meet the expectations of patients, physicians and third-party payers; in such cases our operating results, reputation and business could suffer. If third-party payers, including commercial payers and government healthcare programs, do not provide coverage of, or adequate reimbursement for, or reverse or change their policies related to our tests, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement for our Genomics product line outside of the United States, our ability to expand internationally will be compromised. Labor relations matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We use AI in our products and services which may result in operational challenges, legal liability, reputational concerns and competitive risks. If we cannot compete successfully with our competitors, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenue or to achieve and then sustain profitability. The industries in which we operate are subject to rapid change, which could make our Platform, our current products and any future products we may develop obsolete. Our existing and any future debt may affect our flexibility in operating and developing our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, sole suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or promptly transition to alternative suppliers. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial, and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and rules, contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to data privacy and security. Our (or the third parties with whom we work) actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation (including class claims) and mass arbitration demands; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may, directly or indirectly, reduce our revenue, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our tests are currently marketed as LDTs, and future changes in FDA enforcement discretion for LDTs could subject our operations to much more significant regulatory requirements. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce sufficient intellectual property protection for our Platform and products, or if the scope of the intellectual property protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors or other third parties could develop and commercialize products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our products may be impaired. We are and may in the future become involved in litigation and other legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights, or asserting our intellectual property rights, which could be time-intensive and costly and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have and may in the future acquire businesses, form joint ventures or make investments in companies or technologies that could negatively affect our operating results, distract managements attention from other business concerns, dilute our stockholders ownership, and significantly increase our debt, costs, expenses, liabilities and risks. 52 We are highly dependent on the services of Eric Lefkofsky and other members of our senior management team and the loss of any member of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, clinicians, sales representatives and business development managers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our information technology systems or those third parties with whom we work or our data, are or were compromised, we could experience adverse consequences resulting from such compromise, including but not limited to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; loss of customers or sales; and other adverse consequences. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our Chief Executive Officer, Founder and Chairman, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important decisions. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We depend on information technology systems, including on-premises, co-located and third-party data centers and platforms, and any interruptions of service or failures may impair and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We have incurred significant losses since inception, we may continue to incur losses in the future, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred net losses of $705.8 million and $214.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.2 billion. To date, we have financed our operations principally from the sale of stock and convertible securities, and revenue from our Genomics and Data businesses. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to the development and commercialization of our Platform and current products and to research and development activities related to Platform development and future products, including regulatory initiatives to obtain marketing approval or certification for our diagnostic tests, and sales and marketing activities for our Genomics and Data businesses. We will need to generate substantial revenue to achieve and then sustain profitability, and even if we achieve profitability, we cannot be sure that we will remain profitable for any period of time. Our current or future products may not achieve or maintain sufficient commercial market acceptance. We believe our commercial success is dependent upon our ability to continue to successfully market and sell our current Genomic diagnostics products to continue to grow our Data business by expanding our current relationships and developing new relationships with clinicians and pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, and to develop and commercialize new products based on our Platform, including by expanding our Genomics product line to new disease areas and by advancing our existing and future AI Applications. Our ability to achieve and maintain sufficient commercial market acceptance of our existing and future products will depend on a number of factors, including: our ability to increase awareness of our Genomics and AI Applications diagnostic tests and other AI Applications, including new product offerings as they become available; the rate of adoption and/or endorsement of our Genomics and AI Applications diagnostic tests and AI Applications by clinicians, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, KOLs, and advocacy groups; the timing and scope of obtaining any necessary approvals or certification by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, for our diagnostic tests, any software offerings, AI Applications, or any features of our Platform, in each case, that may be subject to regulatory oversight; our ability to obtain positive coverage decisions for our tests from additional commercial payers and to broaden the scope of indications included in such coverage decisions; our ability to obtain reimbursement and expanded coverage from government payers, including Medicare or comparable foreign programs; 53 our ability to increase demand for our Data business, including by expanding our database of de- identified patient information and increasing the utility of our product offerings; our ability to successfully expand beyond oncology into neuropsychiatry, cardiology, radiology, and other indications; our ability to build and maintain robust data sets with respect to patient populations in geographic regions that we may seek to enter in the future; the impact of our investments in Platform development, product innovation and commercial growth; public perception of our products, those of our competitors and the industry in which we operate, including our ability to avoid adverse publicity from defects or errors; and our ability to further validate our Platform through clinical research and accompanying publications. We cannot assure that we will be successful in addressing each of these criteria or other criteria that might affect the market acceptance of our products. If we are unsuccessful in achieving and maintaining sufficient market acceptance of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or any guidance we may provide. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. Because we plan to operate our business with a long-term focus, these fluctuations may be more pronounced than those experienced by other companies that operate with a shorter- term focus. These fluctuations may occur due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, but not limited to: the timing and cost of, and level of investment in, research, development, regulatory approval or certification and commercialization activities relating to our Platform and products, which may change from time to time; the volume and customer mix of our Genomics and AI Applications diagnostic testing, AI Applications, and other products; the start and completion of projects in which our Data and Services products are utilized; the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or others in our industry; coverage and reimbursement policies with respect to our products and products that compete with our products; expenditures that we may incur to acquire, develop or commercialize additional products and technologies; changes in governmental regulations, including with respect to privacy and data security and medical device regulation, and our compliance therewith, or in the status of our regulatory approvals, certifications or applications; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; developments or disruptions in the business and operations of our clinical, commercial and other partners; the impact of natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars (such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and the hostilities in the Middle East), terrorism, and political unrest, epidemics or pandemics, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and general market conditions, including high and rising inflation rates, high interest rates, government bank closures, liquidity concerns at other financial institutions, and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Additionally, it is difficult to predict the amounts, if any, we will be able to collect for our diagnostic tests from commercial payers. We are a participating network provider in a small number of commercial payers from whom we receive reimbursement for our diagnostic tests. Payers determine the amount they are willing to reimburse us for tests. We have provided testing to patients with many disease types and indications, most of the time as a non-participating provider. Even when payers have paid a claim, they may elect at any time to review previously paid claims for overpayment against these claims. While we have not experienced significant retroactive adjustments to date, in the event of an overpayment determination, the payer may offset the amount they determine they overpaid against amounts they owe us on current claims. 54 We have limited leverage to dispute these retroactive adjustments and we cannot predict when, or how often, a payer might engage in these reviews. A significant amount of these offsets by one or more payers in any given quarter could have a material effect on our results of operations and cause them to fall below expectations or guidance we may provide. Due to the inherent variability and unpredictability of the reimbursement landscape, including related to the amount that payers reimburse us for any of our tests, previously recorded revenue adjustments are not indicative of future revenue adjustments from actual cash collections, which may fluctuate significantly. In addition, the demand for our Genomics and Data and Services products will depend in part upon the research and development and clinical budgets of pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, which are impacted by factors beyond our control, such as: changes in government programs (such as the National Institutes of Health) that provide funding to research institutions and companies; macroeconomic conditions (including any impact of unforeseen events such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and the hostilities in the Middle East), the political climate and the impact of public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic, high and rising inflation rates, high interest rates, government closures of banks and liquidity concerns at other financial institutions; changes in the regulatory environment; differences in budgetary cycles; competitor products or pricing; market-driven pressures to consolidate operations and reduce costs; and market acceptance of relatively new products. Uncertainty in the current political environment could impact our business. In addition to potential changes in government programs and the research and development and clinical budgets of our potential customers, changes in government staffing or funding levels could affect various aspects of our business. For example, the reimbursement rates we receive from government payors may experience downward pressures, and certain of our products that require government review or approval may experience delays in obtaining requisite authorizations. Conversely, the government may implement programs to accelerate the adoption of artificial intelligence within the healthcare industry, which could have a favorable impact on our operations. Given these uncertainties, it is impossible to predict how a shifting political environment may influence our operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to reductions and delays in research and development or clinical expenditures by these customers. Further, many of our data licensing agreements allow us to deliver data to our customers over a period of time, which can span a year or longer. Revenue pursuant to our data licensing agreements is recognized upon delivery of the data to the customer, upon completion of performance obligations for related services, or ratably over time in the case of subscriptions. The actual timing of data deliveries can be based on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the customers requirements and/or our technological, operational, and human capital capacity; in addition, management assesses relevant contractual terms in contracts with customers and applies significant judgment in identifying and accounting for all terms and conditions in certain contracts. The cumulative effects of the factors discussed above could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Investors should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of industry or financial analysts or investors for any period. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors or below any guidance we may provide, or if the guidance we provide is below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met any previously publicly stated guidance we may provide. 55 The success of our business depends on our continued access to, and ability to monetize, de-identified patient data. Our business relies on our ability to obtain, process, monetize and distribute highly regulated data in the healthcare industry, in a manner that complies with applicable laws, regulations and contractual and technological restrictions. The data that we collect through the provision of Genomics tests and through other sources is critical to our ability to offer our Data and AI Applications products and services. Our Platform also includes proprietary software and dedicated data pipelines that create a network of healthcare institutions that supply us with complex multimodal data. Further, we rely on certain collaborations and licensing agreements to access important data. The success of our business depends on our continued access to, and ability to monetize, this internal and external de-identified patient data. As we seek to expand our business into additional disease areas and geographies, we will also need to be successful in building and maintaining sufficiently large relevant data sets and obtaining the permissions necessary to de-identify and use that data for commercial purposes. Our ability to maintain, expand and monetize our datasets are subject to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. With respect to data included in our Data and AI Applications products, we rely on a combination of the statutory rights available to us as a HIPAA covered entity and as a HIPAA business associate. As a HIPAA covered entity, we utilize data generated through our provision of Genomic tests. As a HIPAA business associate, we may rely on healthcare providers to obtain the requisite consents from their patients, with whom we may have no direct contact, to use the de-identified data that we generate in the provision of our other offerings to the providers, or that we generate from the protected health information, or PHI, we obtain from providers. More broadly, the failure by us or our data suppliers and processors to obtain patient data in a compliant manner could have a harmful effect on our ability to use and disclose data which in turn could impair our functions and operations, including our ability to share data with third parties or incorporate it into our products. In addition, the use, processing and distribution of patient data may require us or our data suppliers and processors to obtain consent from third parties or follow additional laws, regulations or contractual and technological restrictions that apply to the healthcare industry. These requirements could interfere with our ability to deploy our products, prevent creation of new products, or otherwise limit data-driven activities that benefit us. Moreover, due to lack of valid notice, sufficient consents or waiver, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of data or other information. We are also dependent on the healthcare institutions within our network continuing to provide us with broad access to data to multimodal data to support the robustness of our Genomics tests and other offerings, as well as on maintaining our collaborations with ASCO, ONCare Alliance and similar organizations, and entering into similar collaborations with other organizations in the future, particularly as we attempt to expand into other disease areas. These third parties may have interests that diverge from our interests, including a desire to monetize their data in different ways, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining and growing our datasets. Further, our arrangements with some of these third parties are not exclusive, which could allow such parties to provide data to our competitors, thereby adversely impacting our ability to offer differentiated products and services. Our practice of making available to providers the raw data from our Genomics testing along with corresponding clinical data we may have structured as part of providing testing also may allow those providers to use data in ways that may be harmful to our business interests. The use, processing and distribution of patient data is also the subject of complex, interconnected and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States and globally. We have policies and procedures in place to address the proper handling and use of data, but could face claims that our practices are insufficient, or occur in a manner not permitted under applicable laws or our agreements with or obligations to data providers, patients or other third parties. These claims or liabilities and other failures to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy and data security laws could have an adverse impact on the willingness of the third parties on whom we rely for access to data to continue to provide us with such data. The continued adoption of our products and services is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are interrelated. Our ability to execute our growth strategy and become profitable is highly dependent on a number of factors, many of which are interrelated. Continued adoption and use of our Genomics product line will depend on several factors, including the prices we charge for our tests, the scope of coverage and amount of reimbursement available from third-party payers for our tests, the availability of clinical data that support the value of our tests and the inclusion of our tests in industry treatment guidelines. In addition, many clinicians, hospital systems and pharmaceutical companies have existing relationships with companies that develop molecular diagnostic tests, including our competitors, and may continue to use their tests instead of ours. Despite our business development efforts, it could be difficult, expensive and/or time-consuming for healthcare providers to switch 56 diagnostic tests for their patients, and our tests may not be widely accepted by physicians, if at all, which could in turn hinder the growth of sales of our tests. If we are unable to achieve commercial success for our tests, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We are also particularly dependent on our oncology tests, which accounted for 63% of our revenue in both the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. We cannot assure that our oncology tests will continue to maintain or gain market acceptance, and any failure to do so would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued adoption of and use of our Data and Services products will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain relationships and to enter into new relationships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers and provide relevant data to such customers for outcomes research, companion diagnostic development, novel target discovery and validation, among other uses. This can be difficult due to many factors, including the type of data required and our ability to deliver it to our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers satisfaction. Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers may decide to decrease or discontinue their use of our Insights product due to changes in their research and product development plans, failures in their clinical trials, financial constraints, or other circumstances outside of our control. Furthermore, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may decline to do business with us or decrease or discontinue their use of our data due to a strategic collaboration with any of our competitors. We invest resources in seeking to develop relationships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies regarding potential commercial opportunities on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that any of this investment will result in a commercial agreement, that the resulting relationship will be successful, or that the data we provide as part of the engagement will produce successful outcomes. If we cannot maintain our current relationships, or enter into new relationships, with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, our product development could be delayed and revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. The scope and robustness of the Data and Services and AI Applications products that we can offer our customers also depend significantly on the continued success of our Genomics product line, as the data that we collect through genomic testing is an essential component of our Data and Services and AI Applications products. Further, we believe that growth in the use of our Data and Services products will help drive awareness and adoption of our Genomics product line, which in turn will drive further growth within our Data and Services and AI Applications product lines. However, there can be no assurance that we will realize these synergies. Our limited operating history and rapid growth make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We were founded in 2015 and have experienced rapid growth in revenue, adoption of our products and services, testing volume, size of our datasets, clinical trial matches and other metrics that we believe are important to assessing our business. In addition, we operate in highly competitive markets characterized by rapid technological advances and our business has evolved, and we expect it to continue to evolve, over time to remain competitive. Our limited operating history, evolving business, rapid growth and ambitious goals make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter, and may increase the risk that we will not continue to grow at or near historical rates. Further, these factors may make it difficult for us to achieve our stated milestones and goals, and to accurately project the future performance of our business. For example, we may never realize the potential benefits of our technology as contemplated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our existing operations, develop our Platform, commercialize new products or expand our operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to expand our business, meet existing obligations, pursue acquisitions or strategic investments, or take advantage of financing opportunities or for other reasons, including to: increase our sales and marketing efforts to drive market adoption of our current products and services, and address competitive developments; 57 fund development and marketing efforts of our products under development or any other future products we may develop; acquire, license or invest in technologies; acquire or invest in complementary businesses or assets; and finance capital expenditures and general and administrative expenses. Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: our ability to achieve revenue growth and favorable gross profits; our rate of progress in establishing payer coverage and reimbursement arrangements with domestic and international commercial payers and government payers; the cost of expanding our laboratory operations and product offerings, including our sales and marketing efforts; our rate of progress in, and costs of our sales and marketing activities associated with, establishing adoption of and reimbursement for our current products, including our diagnostic tests and our data analytics products; the rate at which we choose to advance, rate of progress in, and costs of our research and development activities associated with, products in development; the effect of competing technological and market developments; costs related to our international expansion; and the potential costs of and delays in product development as a result of any existing or new regulatory oversight applicable to our products. We have no committed sources of capital. We may seek to sell equity or convertible securities, enter into a credit facility or another form of third-party funding, or seek other debt financing. The various ways we could raise additional capital carry potential risks. If we raise funds by issuing equity or convertible securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any preferred equity securities issued also could provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, those debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings pursuant to a credit agreement could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our Platform or products or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. These alternatives of raising additional capital may not be available to us on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or in amounts sufficient to meet our needs. The failure to obtain any required future financing may require us to reduce or eliminate certain existing operations and could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. Our AI Applications product line is nascent. We have limited commercialized algorithms within our AI Applications product line. Revenue generated from AI Applications is reported within our Data and Services product line and was $12.4 million and $5.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, which represents 1.8% and 1.0% of our total revenue in each period. We have a number of additional Algos in development and we may not be successful in developing and commercializing these or future Algos, or in attaining our other development targets. Further, the scope and robustness of the AI Applications that we can offer our customers depend significantly on the continued success of our Genomics product line and access to third-party data, of which there can be no assurance. We also cannot accurately estimate how our future AI Applications will be priced, whether reimbursement can be obtained or whether we will generate any revenue from such AI Applications. Further, the use of diagnostics that are entirely algorithmic in nature is novel and today represents only a small proportion of the diagnostics market. The use of algorithmic diagnostics may also be subject to existing and entirely new regulations that may substantially impact their adoption, use, reimbursement and ongoing viability. While we believe AI Applications represent a significant long-term opportunity for us, there can be no assurances that a robust and sustained market for such diagnostics will develop or that we will successfully compete in any such market. 58 New product development and commercialization involve a lengthy and complex process and we may be unable to develop or commercialize new products on a timely basis, or at all. Products that are under development have taken time and considerable resources to develop, and we may not be able to complete the development and commercialization of such products on a timely basis, or at all. Before we can commercialize any new Genomics or AI Applications diagnostic products, we will need to expend significant funds in order to: conduct substantial research and development, including validation studies and, in some cases, clinical trials; further develop and scale our laboratory or algorithmic processes to accommodate diagnostic tests in additional disease areas; and further develop and scale our infrastructure to be able to analyze increasingly large amounts of data. Our diagnostic product development process involves a high degree of risk, and product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including: failure of the diagnostic product to perform as expected, including defects and errors; lack of validation data or validation activities that subsequently may be challenged or questioned; or failure to demonstrate the clinical utility of the diagnostic test. Expanding the offerings of our Data business is also a speculative and risky endeavor and may require us to: acquire additional access to patient healthcare information that is relevant to the products we offer; correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; allocate our research and development funding to areas with higher growth prospects; and anticipate and respond to our competitors development of new products and technological innovations. Our Platform development plan involves using data and analytical insights generated from our current products to foster research and development in our future products. However, if we are unable to generate additional or compatible data and insights, then we may not be able to advance our products under development as quickly, or at all, or without significant additional investment. As we develop our products, we have made and will have to make significant investments in Platform development, marketing and selling resources, which could adversely affect our future cash flows. We may also rely on third parties to develop new products that we may license and include in our overall offering, particularly with respect to our AI Applications business, and we may exert limited or no control over such development efforts. In addition, in our development and commercialization plans for our business lines, we may forego other opportunities that may provide greater revenue or be more profitable. For example, while we expect to provide diagnostic and data technologies to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies (including companies in which our Chief Executive Officer, Founder, and Chairman, Eric Lefkofsky, or our other executive officers, directors or significant stockholders may have significant or controlling voting and economic interests) developing therapeutics for various diseases, including cancers, we do not currently expect to conduct development of therapeutics ourselves. As a result, even if our development efforts result in commercially viable products, our business and results of operations could underperform in comparison to our customers and competitors. We may not be successful in updating or otherwise enhancing our Platform and products. We have developed multiple genomics diagnostics tests across oncology, infectious diseases, and neuropsychiatry, as well as algorithmic diagnostic tests across oncology and cardiology. A major part of our strategy is bringing new high-value enhancements to our customers through updates to our Platform and existing products, which may include expanding our existing products with additional features, applications and data modalities. We expect to make significant investments to advance these efforts. 59 Enhancing our Platform and products is a speculative and risky endeavor. Features, applications and data modalities that initially show promise may fail to achieve the desired results or may not achieve acceptable levels of analytical accuracy or utility. We may need to alter our products in development and repeat studies before we identify a potentially successful update. Product development is expensive, may take years to complete and can have uncertain outcomes. Failure can occur at any stage of the development. Even if we confirm that our products can be successfully updated for additional features, applications and data modalities, those features, applications and data modalities may be limited in scope to only some diseases, disease segments, patient markets or geographies. If, after development, an updated product appears successful, we may, depending on the nature of the update, need to obtain FDAs, Notified Bodies and other regulatory bodies clearances, authorizations, certifications or approvals before we can market the updated product. The FDAs and Notified Bodies clearance, authorization, approval or certification pathways are likely to require significant time and expenditures. The FDA, or other applicable regulatory authority or Notified Bodies may not clear, authorize, certify or approve any product update we develop and may even change the applicable regulations or the application of those regulations in ways that would impact our existing products or services, including our Platform. Even if we develop a product update that receives regulatory clearance, certification, authorization or approval, we or our collaborators would need to commit substantial resources to commercialize, sell and market the updated product, which may never achieve significant market acceptance among various stakeholders and be commercially successful. In addition, we generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop Platform and product enhancements based on technological innovation on a timely basis, our Platform and products may become obsolete over time and our financial and competitive position will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; allocate our research and development funding to areas with higher growth prospects; anticipate and respond to our competitors development of new products and technological innovations; innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in the markets we serve; successfully develop and commercialize new technologies and applications in a timely manner; and convince customers to adopt new technologies and applications. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful expansion of our Platform could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not successful in leveraging our Platform to identify, develop and commercialize additional genomic and algorithmic tests, our ability to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives would be impaired. A key element of our strategy is to leverage our Platform to identify, develop and potentially commercialize genomic and algorithmic tests beyond our current portfolio to diagnose various types of diseases. Identifying new genomic and algorithmic tests requires substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any genomic or algorithmic tests are ultimately developed and commercialized. We may pursue what we believe is a promising opportunity to leverage our Platform only to discover that certain of our risk or resource allocation decisions were incorrect or insufficient, or that individual genomic or algorithmic tests have limitations that were previously unknown or underappreciated. Our strategy of pursuing the value of our Platform to develop genomic and algorithmic tests over a long time horizon and across a broad array of human diseases may not be effective. In the event that material decisions in any of these areas turn out to be incorrect or sub-optimal, we may experience a material adverse impact on our business and ability to fund our operations, and we may never realize what we believe is the potential of our Platform for developing and commercializing genomic and algorithmic tests. If our existing and new products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient scientific acceptance, we will not generate expected revenue and our prospects may be harmed. The life sciences scientific community is comprised of a small number of early adopters and key opinion leaders who significantly influence the rest of the community. The success of life sciences products is due, in large part, to acceptance by the scientific community and their adoption of certain products as best practice in the applicable field of research. The current 60 system of academic and scientific research views publishing in a peer- reviewed journal as a measure of success. In such journal publications, the researchers will describe not only their discoveries but also the methods and typically the products used to fuel such discoveries. Mentions in peer- reviewed journal publications is a good barometer for the general acceptance of our products as best practices. Ensuring that early adopters and key opinion leaders publish research involving the use of our products is critical to ensuring our products gain widespread acceptance and market growth. Continuing to maintain good relationships with such key opinion leaders is vital to growing our market. The number of times our products were mentioned in peer-reviewed publications has increased significantly in recent years. As of December 31, 2024, our products have been mentioned in 163 peer-reviewed articles published in major journals, including 120 that were Tempus-authored. We cannot assure investors, however, that our products will continue to be mentioned in peer-reviewed articles with any frequency or that any new products that we introduce in the future will be mentioned in peer-reviewed articles. In addition, self-authored journal publications that mention our products may present an actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest and, therefore, the number of publications in which our products are mentioned may not be indicative of the level of acceptance of our products. If too few researchers describe the use of our products, too many researchers shift to a competing product and publish research outlining their use of that product or too many researchers negatively describe the use or usability of our products in publications, it may drive existing and potential customers away from our products, which could harm our operating results. Any decrease in the frequency at which our products are mentioned in peer reviewed journals, or a decline in the quality of such publications, may negatively impact our prospects. Our diagnostic products, or our competitors diagnostic products, could have defects or errors or otherwise fail to meet the expectations of patients, physicians and third-party payers; in such cases our operating results, reputation and business could suffer. The success of our Genomics and AI Applications products depends in part on patients, physicians and third-party payers confidence that our Platform can provide reliable, high-quality intelligent diagnostics that will improve clinical outcomes and lower healthcare costs, as well as our ability to comply with applicable privacy and data security requirements. We believe that patients, physicians and third-party payers are likely to be particularly sensitive to our use of data, as well as product defects and errors in the use of our products, including if our products fail to detect genomic alterations or other clinical relevant information with high accuracy from samples, if we fail to list or inaccurately include certain treatment options and available clinical trials in our test reports, or if we fail to comply with applicable privacy and data security laws, and there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in this regard. Furthermore, if our competitors diagnostic products do not perform to expectations or if they fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it may result in lower confidence in us as well. As a result, the failure of our diagnostic products or our competitors diagnostic products to perform as expected, or failure by us or our competitors to comply with applicable laws and regulations, could significantly impair our operating results and our reputation. In addition, we may be subject to legal claims arising from any such failures, including claims that defects or errors in our diagnostic products led to injury or death. Confidence in us, as well as the strength of our brand and reputation, could also be eroded by perceived failures by us or our competitors, even absent any evidence of failure or wrongdoing. If we are unable to support demand for our current and future Genomics product line, including ensuring that we have adequate capacity to meet increased demand, or we are unable to successfully manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. As the volume of our Genomics product line sales grows, we will need to continue to increase our workflow capacity for sample intake, customer service, billing and general process improvements, expand our internal quality assurance program and extend our Platform to support comprehensive genomic analysis at a larger scale within expected turnaround times. We will need additional certified laboratory scientists and other scientific and technical personnel to process higher volumes of our Genomics tests. Portions of our process are not automated and will require additional personnel to scale. We will also need to purchase additional equipment, some of which can take several months or more to procure, set up and validate, and increase our software and computing capacity to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that any of these increases in scale, expansion of personnel, equipment, software and computing capacities or process enhancements will be successfully implemented, if at all, or that we will have adequate space in our laboratory facility or be able to secure additional facility space to accommodate such required expansion. As we commercialize additional Genomics products, we will need to incorporate new equipment, implement new technology systems and laboratory processes, and hire new personnel with different qualifications. Failure to manage this growth or transition could result in turnaround time delays, higher product costs, declining product quality, deteriorating customer service and slower responses to competitive challenges. A failure in any one of these areas could make it difficult for us to meet market expectations for our products and could damage our reputation and the prospects for our business. 61 Our ability to attract and retain candidates to support the expansion of our Genomics and other products may be influenced by factors outside our control, or factors that we can control but which we fail to execute. For example, global labor shortages, our compensation and benefits offerings, attempts at unionization by our employees, and other factors may impact our ability to recruit, hire, train, and retain employees, which will further impact our ability to meet our growth and expansion goals. In addition, our ability to manage our growth properly will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. The time and resources required to implement these new systems and procedures is uncertain and could be demanding, and failure to complete this in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party payers, including commercial payers and government healthcare programs, do not provide coverage of, or adequate reimbursement for, or reverse or change their policies related to our tests, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2024, we had received payment on approximately 55% of our clinical oncology next generation sequencing, or NGS, tests across all payers performed from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023. We calculated this metric on a trailing basis based on payer adjudication timing. However, we continued to perform our NGS tests through December 31, 2024. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, our average reimbursement for NGS tests in oncology was approximately $1,510 and $1,450, respectively. In addition, we receive a substantial portion of our diagnostic revenue from a limited number of third-party commercial payers, most of which have not contracted with us to be a participating provider. We also receive reimbursement from Medicare for claims submitted with respect to our various diagnostic tests. Approximately 26% of our clinical tests were for Medicare beneficiaries in both the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. Our revenue and commercial success depend on achieving coverage and reimbursement for our tests from payers, including both commercial and government payers. If payers do not provide coverage of, or do not provide adequate reimbursement for our tests, we may need to seek payment from the patient, which may adversely affect demand for our tests. In addition, because our Genomics and AI Applications diagnostic tests represent new approaches to the diagnosis of diseases, we cannot accurately estimate how they would be priced, whether reimbursement could be obtained or any potential revenue generated. Coverage determinations by a payer may depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to a payers determination that a test is appropriate, medically necessary or cost-effective. If we are unable to provide payers with sufficient evidence of the clinical utility and validity of our test, they may not provide coverage, may provide limited coverage or may terminate coverage, which will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that more competitors enter our markets, the availability of coverage and the reimbursement rate for our tests may decrease as we encounter pricing pressure from our competitors or as payers decide based on other factors to lower the reimbursement rate for our tests. Each payer makes its own decision as to whether to provide coverage for our tests, whether to enter into a contract with us and the reimbursement rate for a test. Negotiating with payers is time-consuming, and payers often insist on their standard form contracts, which may allow payers to terminate coverage on short notice, impose significant obligations on us and create additional regulatory and compliance hurdles for us. There can be no guarantee that a payer will provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for our tests or that we can reach an agreement with the payer on reasonable terms without being subject to additional regulatory and compliance risks. In cases where there is no coverage, or we do not have a contracted rate for reimbursement with the payer, the patient is typically responsible for a greater share of the cost of the test, which may result in delay of revenue, increase collection costs or decrease the likelihood of collection. We maintain a financial assistance program under which we assess patient financial need and offer discounted or no-cost tests to certain patients who meet the financial and other eligibility criteria of the program. This may result in scrutiny by payers of our financial assistance program and could result in recoupment actions or termination of coverage of our tests. Our claims for reimbursement have in the past been denied and may again in the future be denied, and we have needed, and again may need, to appeal such denials in order to get paid. Such appeals may not result in payment. Payers may perform audits of historically paid claims and attempt to recoup funds years after the funds were initially distributed if the payers believe the funds were paid in error or determine that our tests were medically unnecessary. If a payers audit of our claims results in a negative finding, and we are unable to reverse the finding through appeal, any subsequent recoupment could result in a material adverse effect on our revenue. Additionally, in some cases commercial payers for whom we are not a participating provider may elect at any time to review claims previously paid and determine the amount they paid was excessive. In these situations, the payer typically notifies us of its decision and then offsets the amount it determines to be overpaid against amounts it owes us on current claims. We do not have a mechanism to dispute these retroactive adjustments, and we cannot predict when, or how often, a payer might engage in these reviews, as historic success and payments are not indicative of future success of and payments from such appeals. 62 Our efforts to become a participating provider of a number of commercial payers may not be successful. When we contract with a payer as a participating provider, reimbursements by the payer are generally made pursuant to a negotiated fee schedule and are limited to only covered indications or where prior approval has been obtained. Although we are a participating provider with several commercial payers, some large commercial payers have issued non-coverage policies that consider tissue and liquid comprehensive genomic profile testing, including certain of our Genomics tests, as experimental or investigational. If we are not successful in obtaining coverage from such payers, or if other payers issue similar non-coverage policies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Coverage and reimbursement are ever changing, and we are not in control of how our competitors coverage and pricing strategies are established. Some of our competitors have widespread brand recognition and substantially greater financial and technical resources and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. Others may develop lower-priced, less complex tests that payers and healthcare professionals could view as functionally equivalent to our products, which could force us to lower the list price of our tests and impact our operating margins and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Payers may compare our products to our competitors and utilize them as precedents, which may impact our coverage and reimbursement. In addition, technological innovations that result in the creation of enhanced diagnostic tools that are more effective than ours may enable other clinical laboratories, hospitals, medical personnel or medical providers to provide specialized diagnostic tests similar to ours in a more patient-friendly, efficient or cost-effective manner than is currently possible. In the United States, many significant decisions about reimbursement for new diagnostics are made by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, which makes a national coverage determination, or NCD, as to whether and to what extent a new diagnostic will be covered and reimbursed under Medicare, although it frequently delegates this authority to local Medicare Administrative Contractors, or MACs, which may make a local coverage determination, or LCD, with respect to coverage and reimbursement. Private payers tend to follow Medicare to a substantial degree. During the year ended December 31, 2024, Medicare claims represented 26% of our clinical testing volume. Given we operate laboratories in multiple MACs and run both LDTs and an FDA-approved assay, the applicable reimbursement determination varies based on the assay being run and the locations where it is being processed. The rules and standards that CMS uses to determine reimbursement rates for our tests are frequently changing and subject to revision, which could have a material impact on our results. For example, Medicares NCD for NGS first established in 2018 and subsequently updated in 2020, states that NGS oncology tests (such as our Tempus|xT and Tempus|xF tests), would be covered by Medicare nationally if and when: (1) performed in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, or CLIA, certified laboratory, (2) ordered by a treating physician, (3) the patient meets certain clinical and treatment criteria, including having recurrent, relapsed, refractory, metastatic, or advanced stages III or IV cancer, (4) the test is approved or cleared by the FDA as a companion in vitro diagnostic for an FDA approved or cleared indication for use in that patients cancer, and (5) results are provided to the treating physician for management of the patient using a report template to specify treatment options. We believe that our xT CDX assay, which received FDA approval in April 2023, will meet the criteria for reimbursement under the NCD. In addition, effective July 1, 2024, our xT CDX assay was awarded Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Test status by CMS. The NGS NCD also states that each MAC may provide local coverage of other next-generation sequencing tests for cancer patients only when the test is performed by a CLIA-certified laboratory, ordered by a treating physician and the patient meets the same clinical and treatment criteria required of nationally covered next-generation sequencing tests under the NGS NCD. An NGS test is typically not covered by Medicare when cancer patients do not have the above-noted indications for cancer under either an NCD or LCD. National Government Services, Inc. is the local MAC that makes local coverage determinations, or LCDs, for tests conducted at our Chicago laboratory. The Local MAC has issued two LCDs related to genetic testing in cancer, each of which currently requires claims to be submitted under a single current procedural terminology, or CPT, code that describes the test. Because no CPT code comprehensively describes our NGS oncology tests, we have historically submitted claims using individual codes based on the cancer subtype profiled. On March 25, 2021, the Local MAC instructed us to submit our claims using a different designated CPT code and indicated that such claims would be individually reviewed. Subsequently, on July 23, 2021, the Local MAC issued revised instructions for CPT coding and further updated those instructions on July 29, 2021. On February 10, 2022, the Local MAC issued a revised LCD (L37810), and a corresponding Billing and Coding update (A56867). The increased scope of coverage provided for in the revised LCD will result in the CPT code they instructed us to begin billing in July 2021 being reimbursed at the prevailing Medicare rate for those tests which meet the revised coverage criteria. The modified LCD is effective April 1, 2022 and applies to genomic sequence analysis panel tests in the treatment of solid tumors, which primarily impacts our solid tumor assay, xT, given the modified scope of coverage in the revised LCD. 63 Beginning January 1, 2023, a new CPT code went into effect covering full transcriptome testing when performed separately from DNA testing. Historically, our xT assay was actually comprised of two separate and distinct procedures, DNA and RNA. Given there was not an applicable CPT code for RNA, we did not bill that test. With the introduction of the new code, we now have two separate assays, one analyzing DNA xT and one analyzing RNA xR that are ordered and billed for separately. We requested that the Local MAC add the new CPT code to the LCD, which they did effective January 1, 2023. Palmetto is the MAC jurisdiction that determines reimbursement for tests conducted at our Raleigh and Atlanta laboratories through the MolDx program. MolDx requires laboratories to complete a technical assessment process in order to secure reimbursement for tests run at labs in its jurisdiction. Upon receiving approval in the technical assessment process, assays are assigned a z-code and a price at which MolDx will reimburse claims. In conjunction with launching our Raleigh laboratory, we submitted a technical assessment for our xT assay in 2022 and our xF assay in 2023. We received approval on our xT assay in October 2023 and on our xF assay in March 2024. In addition, pursuant to the regulations of CMS, we cannot bill Medicare directly for tests provided for Medicare beneficiaries in some situations. CMS adopted an exception to its laboratory date of service regulation, and if certain conditions are met, molecular testing laboratories such as us can rely on that exception to bill Medicare directly, instead of seeking payment from the hospital. If this exception is repealed or curtailed by CMS, or its laboratory date of service regulation is otherwise changed to adversely impact our ability to bill Medicare directly, our revenue could be materially reduced. Furthermore, on September 27, 2023, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) published calendar year 2024 preliminary payment determinations for new and reconsidered codes on the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule (CLFS), including new codes that may apply to tests we offer through our Genomics business. In doing so, CMS rejected the recommendations from experts on the Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Test (CDLT) Advisory Panel and recommended reimbursement rates for several new procedure codes describing genomic profiling tests that are substantially below our costs to perform them. Following a comment period, CMS revised its preliminary determination and assigned each of the new codes to gapfill a process by which each of the individual MACs prices the codes and the resulting median price across the MACs becomes the price on the Medicare CLFS. We are currently participating in the gapfill process with the MACs with which we operate. On May 1, 2024, CMS posted the MAC-specific payment recommendations which indicated that the codes applicable to our tests would be reimbursed at the same or a higher level than they were previously reimbursed. These recommendations were finalized in September and became effective January 1, 2024. Some payers have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, laboratory benefit management programs, often using third-party benefit managers to manage these programs. The stated goals of these programs are to help improve the quality of outpatient laboratory services, support evidence-based guidelines for patient care and lower costs. The impact on laboratories, such as us, of active laboratory benefit management by third parties is unclear, and we expect that it would have a negative impact on our revenue in the short term. Payers may resist reimbursement for our tests in favor of less expensive tests, require pre-authorization for our tests, or impose additional pricing pressure on and substantial administrative burden for reimbursement for our tests. We expect to continue to focus substantial resources on increasing adoption of, and coverage and reimbursement for, our current tests and any future tests we may develop. We believe it may take several years to achieve broad coverage and adequate contracted reimbursement with a majority of payers for our tests. However, coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more of our tests, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. We cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what price levels payers will cover and reimburse our tests. If we fail to establish and maintain broad adoption of, and coverage and reimbursement for, our tests, our ability to generate revenue could be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement for our Genomics product line outside of the United States, our ability to expand internationally will be compromised. A substantial portion of our Genomics product line revenues come from third-party payer reimbursement. In many countries outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and various coverage, pricing and reimbursement approvals are required for our tests to be available to patients in significant volume. In the EU some countries require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular medical device candidate to currently available therapies. This Health Technology Assessment, or HTA process, which is currently governed by the national laws of the individual EU Member States, is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact, and the economic and societal impact of use of a given medical device in the national healthcare 64 systems of the individual country is conducted. The outcome of HTA regarding specific medical device will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to these products by the competent authorities of individual EU Member States. We expect that it will take several years to establish broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests with payers in countries outside of the United States, and our efforts may not be successful. Even if public or private reimbursement is obtained, it may cover competing tests, or the reimbursement may be limited to a subset of the eligible patient population or conditioned upon local performance of the tests or other requirements we may have difficulty satisfying. Reimbursement levels outside of the United States may vary considerably from the domestic reimbursement amounts we receive. We may also be negatively affected by the financial instability of, and austerity measures implemented by, several countries in the European Union, or EU, and elsewhere. Labor relations matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. On February 8, 2024, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, or IAM, District Lodge 8, filed a Petition for Election with the National Labor Relations Board, or the NLRB, to serve as the collective bargaining representative of certain of our laboratory employees located in Chicago, Illinois. On March 6 and 7, 2024, the NLRB held an election, at which the defined collective bargaining unit voted to unionize and for the IAM to serve as the collective bargaining representative. We have begun the process of negotiating a collective bargaining agreement with the IAM. We are unable to predict whether we will be successful in reaching a collective bargaining agreement, or the incremental cost and expense that may result from such efforts. In addition, to the extent we are unsuccessful, or if such efforts take longer than anticipated, impacted employees may threaten and/or engage in work stoppages and strikes, and our labor costs may continue to increase as a result. Even though we are currently unaware of other unionization efforts, it is possible that other employees may also seek to unionize. The unavailability of laboratory staff, or our inability to control labor costs related to these matters and future efforts to unionize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We use AI in our products and services which may result in operational challenges, legal liability, reputational concerns and competitive risks. AI is enabled by or integrated into our Platform and, as a result, our diagnostic and data products, and is therefore a significant element of our current business and our future strategy. As with many developing technologies, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its further development, adoption, and use, and therefore our business. Many known and unknown risks to AI exist. Some of the currently known risks include accuracy, bias, toxicity, intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, data privacy and cybersecurity and data provenance. For example, our development and use of AI may result in the incorporation of third-party data, including personal, proprietary or confidential data, into our AI. If we do not have sufficient rights to use the data on which AI relies, we may incur liability through the violation of such laws, third-party privacy or other rights or contracts to which we are a party. Additionally, regulation in the AI space is constantly changing, and may make it difficult to continue using our AI approach to diagnostics and data analysis. AI is the subject of evolving review by various U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies, including the SEC and the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, and various U.S. states and other foreign jurisdictions are applying, or are considering applying, their cybersecurity and data protection laws to AI, particularly generative AI, and/or are considering general legal frameworks on AI (such as the European Unions Artificial Intelligence Act, or the AI Act, which took effect on August 1, 2024, and provides for administrative fines of up to 35 million Euros or 7% of a companys total worldwide annual turnover for the preceding financial year, whichever is the greater). In addition, the use and deployment of AI presents complexities and challenges with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, particularly because we are both a technology company and a healthcare provider of diagnostic testing services. Life sciences companies may underwrite or fund, in part, the development of AI algorithms, which may require us to disclose applicable funding sources and which may, as a result, slow the adoption of such technologies. Further, to the extent the output of an algorithm we develop or deploy recommends, directly or indirectly, the potential ordering of a product or service reimbursable by a federal healthcare program, we may encounter enforcement challenges even when such recommendations are based on objective clinical guidelines and criteria. If any such event were to occur, it could have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and reputation. 65 Additionally, algorithms may be flawed or biased, and datasets may be insufficient, of poor quality or contain biased information. Overcoming technical obstacles and correcting defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impracticable, and the costs incurred may be substantial and adversely affect our results of operations. If the diagnoses, determinations, recommendations, forecasts or analyses that our Platforms AI applications assist in producing are deficient or inaccurate, we could be subjected to competitive harm, potential legal liability and brand or reputational harm. Further, content generated by AI may be offensive, biased, or harmful, or violate current or future laws and regulations, and our reliance on AI could pose ethical concerns and lead to a lack of human oversight and control. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by data scientists, engineers and end-users of our or our competitors products could also impair the acceptance of AI products. Though our business practices are designed to mitigate many of these risks, if we enable or offer AI products that are controversial because of their purported or real impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. Our investments in deploying AI technologies may be substantial and may be more expensive than anticipated. If our Platform does not function reliably, fails to meet expectations in terms of performance, or cannot be fully utilized due to increasing regulation or reputational concerns, we may be unable to provide such services, our customers may stop using our products, or our competitors may incorporate AI technology into their products or services more successfully than we do, all of which may impair our ability to effectively compete in the market. We understand that the terms AI, Machine Learning, Generative AI, Large Language Models and other similar terms may mean different things to different people. Accordingly, when we use those terms, we ascribe to them their broadest, commonly accepted meanings. For example, AI is a scientific field that allows computer software to perform human-like intelligence tasks. At its core, AI is simply the sophisticated application of mathematics to help machines perform tasks similar to, or better than, humans. AI is an umbrella term that encompasses many other subfields and technologies, including those listed above and described below: Machine Learning is a type of AI where the computer software is tasked with learning without being explicitly programmed. Instead, the software learns and adapts through a combination of instruction from humans and self-experimentation. Generative AI is a type of AI that can take different types of inputs (such as text, image, audio, video, code, etc.) and generate new content using a variety of different modalities and based on a sophisticated and advanced set of rules. Large Language Models are algorithms that can recognize, summarize, translate, predict, answer questions about, and generate content using very large datasets, such as our own multimodal clinical- molecular database. Neural Networks are a type of machine learning that teach computers to process data in a way that is inspired by the human brain. Neural networks use interconnected nodes or neurons, much in the same way the human brain does. Our use of generative AI tools may pose particular risks to our proprietary software and systems and subject us to legal liability. We use generative AI tools in our business and expect to use generative AI tools in the future. Using generative AI tools to produce content that can be indistinguishable from that generated by humans is a relatively novel development, with many of the benefits, risks and liabilities still unknown. Recent decisions of the U.S. Copyright Office suggest that we would not be able to claim copyright ownership in any source code, text, images, or other materials that we develop through use of generative AI tools, and the availability of such protections in other countries is unclear. As a result, we could have no remedy if third parties reused those same materials, or similar materials also generated by AI tools. We face and expect to continue to face allegations, and we may face claims regarding such allegations, from third parties of infringement of their intellectual property rights, or mandatory compliance with open source software or other license terms, with respect to software, or other materials or content we believe to be available for use, and not subject to license terms or other third-party proprietary rights. We could also be subject to claims from providers of generative AI tools if, for example, we use any of the generated materials in a manner inconsistent with their terms of use. Any of these claims could result in legal proceedings and could require us to purchase a costly license, comply with the requirements of open source software license terms, or limit or cease using the implicated software, or other materials or content unless and until we can re-engineer such software, materials, or content to avoid infringement or change the use of, or remove, the implicated third-party materials, which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and services. Our use of generative AI tools may also present additional security risks because the generated source code may have been modeled from publicly 66 available code, or otherwise not subject to all of our standard internal controls, which may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to breach our website and systems that rely on the code. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. We may experience challenges with the acquisition, development, enhancement or deployment of technology necessary for our businesses. Our Platform requires sophisticated computer systems and software in order to accurately and efficiently capture, service and process increasing volumes of health data, in particular a growing number of genomic profiles generated by our customers through various NGS test kits, sequencers and sample materials from different manufacturers. Some of the technologies are changing rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes in a timely and effective manner at an acceptable cost. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop, acquire, enhance, deploy or integrate new technologies, including technologies needed to integrate genomics data into our Platform, that these new technologies will be effective and efficient, will meet our needs or achieve our expected goals or that we will be able to do so as quickly or cost effectively as our competitors. If we cannot compete successfully with our competitors, we may be unable to increase or sustain our revenue or to achieve and then sustain profitability. Growing understanding of the importance of biomarkers linked with therapy selection and response is leading to more companies offering products in genomic testing, including NGS diagnostics and PCR profiling. In addition, there are a number of healthcare technology companies providing data analysis products, including AI-driven data platforms and diagnostic products. Our competitors with respect to our Genomics products include certain diagnostics companies, such as Foundation Medicine, Inc., which was acquired by Roche Holdings, Inc., Caris Life Sciences, Guardant Health, Inc., Neogenomics, ResolutionBio, which was acquired by Agilent, and Natera, Inc., among others, with respect to our currently marketed precision oncology tests, and legacy diagnostic laboratories, such as Quest and LabCorp. In addition, our competitors for our pharmacogenetic test in neuropsychiatry include Myriad Genetics, Inc. and Genomind, Inc. Our competitors with respect to our Data and Services products include Flatiron Health, Inc., IQVIA Holdings Inc., and ConcertAI, among others. Furthermore, our Data and Services products also face competition from CROs, such as Fortrea, ICON, Syneos, PPD, and others, who provide data and clinical trial matching services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our competitors with respect to our AI Applications products include Roche Holdings, Inc., Caris Life Sciences, Guardant Health, Inc., Illumina, Inc., and others, with respect to our TO test, and Myriad Genetics, Inc., Caris Life Sciences, and others, with respect to our HRD test. We may also compete with companies developing or commercializing algorithm-based diagnostics using a variety of different data modalities, including digital pathology companies such as PathAI, Inc. and PaigeAI. In cardiology, we believe our competitors may include HeartFlow Inc., Anumana, Inc., and Eko Devices, Inc. In addition, we are aware that academic medical centers may be developing their own AI Applications and may decide to enter this market. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have longer operating histories; larger customer bases; greater brand recognition and market penetration; substantially greater financial, technological and research and development resources and selling and marketing capabilities; and more experience dealing with third-party payers. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do or sell their products at prices designed to win significant levels of market share. We may not be able to compete effectively against these organizations. Increased competition and cost-saving initiatives on the part of governmental entities and other third-party payers are likely to result in pricing pressures, which could harm our sales or ability to gain market share. In addition, competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies. Certain of our competitors may be able to secure key inputs from vendors on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to product development than we can. In addition, companies or governments that control access to genetic testing through umbrella contracts or regional preferences could promote our competitors or prevent us from selling certain products. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, we may be unable to increase market acceptance and sales of our tests, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue or achieving profitability and could cause our stock price to decline. 67 The sizes of the markets for our current and future products have not been established with precision, and may be smaller than we estimate. Our estimates of the annual total addressable markets for our current products and products under development are based on a number of internal and third-party estimates, including, without limitation, the number of patients profiled with genomic diagnostics in the diseases we test, the assumed prices for genomic and algorithmic testing products, the number of genomic and algorithmic tests that we are able to successfully develop and commercialize, and the existing market for multimodal patient data and clinical trial matching services. While we believe our assumptions and the data underlying our estimates are reasonable, these assumptions and estimates may not be correct and the conditions supporting our assumptions or estimates may change at any time, thereby reducing the predictive accuracy of these underlying factors. As a result, our estimates of the annual total addressable market for our current or future products may prove to be incorrect. If the actual number of patients who would benefit from our products, the price at which we can sell our products, the number of genomic or algorithmic tests we are able to successfully develop and commercialize, or the annual total addressable market for our products is smaller than we have estimated, it may impair our sales growth and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industries in which we operate are subject to rapid change, which could make our Platform, our current products and any future products we may develop obsolete. The healthcare diagnostic and data industries are characterized by rapid changes, including technological and scientific breakthroughs, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards, any of which could make our current and future products obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of scientific and technological advances. In recent years, there have been numerous advances in technologies relating to genomic diagnostic testing, as well as advances in the application of AI to healthcare diagnostics and decision-making. We must continuously enhance our Platform and our existing diagnostic, data and analytics products and develop new products to keep pace with evolving standards of care. If we do not update our product offerings to reflect new scientific knowledge about disease biology, information about new therapies or relevant clinical trials, or insights regarding the current treatment landscape for applicable indications and advances in computational biology, software development, and AI, our Platform and products could become obsolete and sales of our current products and any new products we may develop could decline or fail to grow as expected. Further, to the extent that pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies are able to develop therapies or technologies that eradicate or substantially limit the incidence of diseases for which we sell diagnostics, the market for our applicable products could disappear entirely. Our research and development strategy emphasizes rapid innovation and advancement of successful hires who may not have prior industry expertise, and we frequently prioritize patient care and customer satisfaction over short-term financial results. If we cannot maintain or properly manage our culture as we grow, our business may be harmed. We have a research and development strategy that encourages employees to quickly develop and launch technologies intended to solve our customers most important problems and prioritizes the advancement of Platform and product development, technology and engineering employees to positions of significant responsibility based on merit despite, in some cases, limited prior work or industry experience. Successful entry- level hires are often quickly advanced and rewarded with significant responsibilities, including in important customer-facing roles as project managers, development leads, and product managers. As our business grows and becomes more complex, our cultural emphasis on moving quickly and staffing research and development personnel, including certain customer-facing employees, without significant industry experience may result in unintended outcomes or in decisions that are poorly received by customers or other stakeholders. For example, in many cases we launch, at our expense, pilot deployments with customers without a long-term contract in place, and some of those deployments have not resulted in the customers adoption or expansion of its use of our products, or the generation of significant, or any, revenue or payments. In addition, as we continue to grow, including geographically, and as we develop a public company infrastructure, we may find it difficult to maintain our culture. Our culture also prioritizes patient care and customer satisfaction over short-term financial results, and we frequently make product decisions that may reduce our short-term revenue or cash flow if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our mission and thereby have the potential to improve our financial performance over the long term. These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits and results that we expect or may be poorly received in the short term by the public markets, in which case our customer growth and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. 68 We may not be able to successfully market, sell or distribute our products, and if we are unable to expand our sales organization to adequately address our customers needs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to market, sell or distribute our data products and diagnostic tests, and other products we may develop effectively enough to support our planned growth. We currently sell our Genomics and AI Applications tests to clinicians and hospital systems in the United States through our own sales organization and may leverage distributors to help sell our Genomics diagnostic tests in international markets, and we sell our Data and Services products to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies through our business development team. Each of our target markets is large, distinct and diverse. As a result, we believe it is necessary for many of our sales representatives and business development managers to have established diagnostic- or healthcare data- focused expertise. Competition for such employees within the precision diagnostics and healthcare data analytics industries is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel or be able to build an efficient and effective sales organization or business development team, which could negatively impact sales and market acceptance of our products and limit our revenue growth and potential profitability. Our expected future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products, to increase our sales and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage this potential future growth effectively, without compromising quality. If we are not successful in executing our strategy to increase sales of our Data and Services products to large pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, our results of operations may suffer. An important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of Data and Services products, and in particular our Insights product, to large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Sales to large companies involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. These risks include: increased leverage held by large customers in negotiating contractual arrangements with us; changes in key decision makers within these organizations that may negatively impact our ability to negotiate in the future; customer employees may perceive that our products pose a threat to their internal control and advocate for internally developed solutions over our product; resources may be spent on a potential customer that ultimately elects not to purchase our products; more stringent requirements in our service contracts, including stricter service response times, and increased penalties for any failure to meet service requirements; increased competition from larger competitors that traditionally target large enterprises and government entities; less predictability in completing some of our sales than we do with smaller customers; and the potential that advancements in AI allow our Data customers to develop models that serve as functional equivalents of our database and render our own products obsolete. Selling to large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies is often a lengthy process, generally taking several months and sometimes longer. Following the establishment of the relationship, the negotiation of purchase terms can be time-consuming, and a potential customer may require an extended evaluation and testing period. Due to the length, size, scope, and requirements of these evaluations, we frequently provide short-term pilot deployments of our Data and Services products at no or low cost. We sometimes spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without producing any sales. The success of the investments that we make to acquire customers depends on factors such as our ability to identify potential customers for which our data products have an opportunity to add significant value to the customers business, our ability to identify and agree with the potential customer on an appropriate pilot deployment to demonstrate the value of our products, and whether we successfully execute on such pilot deployment. Even if the pilot deployment is successful, we or the customer could choose not to enter into a larger contract for a variety of reasons. For example, product purchases by large companies are frequently subject to budget constraints, leadership changes, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing, and other delays, any of which could significantly delay or entirely prevent our realization of 69 sales. As a result, in the event a sale is not completed or is canceled or delayed, we may have incurred substantial expenses, making it more difficult for us to become profitable or otherwise negatively impacting our financial results. Finally, large companies typically (i) have longer implementation cycles, (ii) require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services, (iii) demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, (iv) sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition and (v) expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. All of these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. If sales expected from a large customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our existing customers do not renew their licenses, do not buy additional products from us, or renew at lower prices, our business and operating results will suffer. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we derived $111.6 million, or approximately 46% and 16%, of our Data and Services product line revenue and total revenue, respectively, from three customers. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our Data and Services product line revenue from renewal of existing agreements. As a result, maintaining the renewal rate of our existing customers and selling additional products to them is critical to our future operating results. Factors that may affect the renewal rate for our customers and our ability to sell additional products to them include: the price, performance, and functionality of our products; the availability, price, performance, and functionality of competing products; the effectiveness of our support services; our ability to develop complementary products; the success of competitive products or technologies; the stability, performance, and security of our technological infrastructure; and the business environment of our customers. We deliver our Insights product through license agreements that allow our customers to use de-identified datasets for a specified term or for specified uses. Our customers have no obligation to renew their licenses for our Data and Services products after the license ends, and many of our contracts may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. In addition, our customers may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue from these customers. Factors that are not within our control may contribute to a reduction in our Data and Services product line revenue. For instance, our customers may change the indications in which they are conducting research and development, which could result in a reduced demand for our products and thus a lower aggregate renewal fee. The loss, reduction in scope, or delay of a large contract, or the loss or delay of multiple contracts, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future operating results also depend, in part, on our ability to sell expanded products to our existing customers. For example, the willingness of existing customers to expand their use of our Insights product will depend on our ability to deliver meaningful information and insights relevant to our customers research and development endeavors, which we may not do successfully. If our customers fail to renew their agreements, renew their agreements upon less favorable terms or at lower fee levels, or fail to purchase expanded licenses from us, our revenue may decline and our future revenue may be constrained. A significant portion of our Data and Services product line revenue are generated by sales to life sciences industry customers, and factors that adversely affect this industry could also adversely affect our Data business sales. A significant portion of our current Data and Services products sales are to customers in the life sciences industry, in particular the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. Demand for our Data and Services products could be affected by factors that adversely affect the life sciences industry, including macroeconomic and market conditions that may adversely impact earlier stage biotechnology companies. The life sciences industry is highly regulated and competitive and has experienced periods of considerable consolidation. Consolidation among our customers could cause us to lose customers, 70 decrease the available market for our products, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in regulations that make investment in the life sciences industry less attractive or drug development more expensive could adversely impact the demand for our data analytics products. For these reasons and others, selling data analytics products to life sciences companies can be competitive, expensive, and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Accordingly, our operating results and our ability to efficiently provide our products to life sciences companies and to grow or maintain our customer base could be adversely affected as a result of factors that affect the life sciences industry generally. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development efforts that further enhance our data analytics. Such investments may affect our operating results, and, if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our revenue and operating results may suffer. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development efforts that further enhance our data analytics, often in response to our customers requirements. These investments may involve significant time, risks, and uncertainties, including the risk that the expenses associated with these investments may affect our margins and operating results and that such investments may not generate sufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments. The healthcare data analytics industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may render our Platform and products less desirable. We believe that we must continue to invest a significant amount of time and resources in our Platform and products to maintain and improve our competitive position. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, or if a slowdown in general computing power impacts the rate at which we expect our physics-based simulations to increase in power and domain applicability, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. If we are unable to collect receivables from our customers, our operating results may be adversely affected. While the majority of our current customers are well-established large companies and hospital systems, we also provide our Data and Services products to smaller institutions and companies and our Genomics product line to individuals. Our financial success depends upon the creditworthiness and ultimate collection of amounts due from our customers, including our smaller customers with fewer financial resources. If we are not able to collect amounts due from our customers, we may be required to write-off significant accounts receivable and recognize bad debt expenses, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our existing and any future debt may affect our flexibility in operating and developing our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2024, we had indebtedness of $440.6 million, comprised of $168.2 million under the convertible promissory note, as amended, or the Amended Note, that we issued to Google LLC, or Google, and $272.4 million of senior secured term loans, or the Term Loan Facility, pursuant to a credit agreement, or the Credit Agreement, with Ares Capital Corporation, or Ares. In addition, in connection with the closing of the Acquisition (as defined below), we entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement providing for an additional $200.0 million in senior secured term loans, or the Additional Term Loan Facility (and together with the Term Loan Facility, the Term Loan Facilities), and $100.0 million in senior secured revolving loan commitments, or the Revolving Credit Facility. Our current and future indebtedness, including the Amended Note, the Term Loan Facilities and the Revolving Credit Facility may have significant negative effects on our operations, including: impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future (or to obtain such financing on acceptable terms) for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other important needs, and subjecting us to other restrictive covenants that may reduce our ability to take certain corporate actions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash resources to the payment of interest and principal, reducing money available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, international expansion, new product development, new enterprise relationships and other general corporate purposes; requiring us to repay the principal and accrued interest on the Amended Note if we terminate our agreement with Google for use of Google Cloud or as a result of an event of default under the operating covenants in the Amended Note, or requiring us to repay the principal and accrued interest on the Term Loan Facility in an event of default under the covenants of the Term Loan Facility, either of which could impair our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other important needs; 71 limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing conditions in the industry, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or business than our competitors with relatively lower levels of debt; and requiring us, in certain circumstances, to obtain approval from Ares and/or the lenders party to the Credit Agreement before embarking on certain mergers, acquisitions, capital expenditures, or other operational issues. We intend to satisfy our current and future debt service obligations with our then existing cash and cash equivalents. However, we may not have sufficient funds, and may be unable to arrange for additional financing, to pay the amounts due under the Term Loan Facilities, the Revolving Credit Facility, the Amended Note or any other debt instruments. In addition, the Credit Agreement, as amended, and the Amended Note contain, and the agreements governing our future indebtedness may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. These restrictive covenants include, among others, limitations on indebtedness, liens, mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions, sales of assets, investments (including acquisitions), dividends and other restricted payments and transactions with affiliates. Our failure to make payments under or comply with other covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt and potentially the foreclosure on our assets in the event we are unable to repay all amounts owed. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, sole suppliers, for some of our laboratory instruments and materials and may not be able to find replacements or promptly transition to alternative suppliers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, sole suppliers, including Illumina Inc., or Illumina, for certain sequencers, reagents, blood tubes and other equipment, instruments and materials that we use in our laboratory operations. Purchases from this supplier accounted for approximately 39% and 33% of total vendor payments for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Amounts due to this supplier were approximately $18.2 million at December 31, 2024. An interruption in our laboratory operations could occur if we encounter delays or difficulties in securing these laboratory equipment, instruments or materials, and if we cannot then obtain an acceptable substitute. Any such interruption could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on Illumina as the sole supplier of the sequencers and as the sole provider of maintenance and repair services for these sequencers. Any disruption in operations of Illumina or other sole or limited suppliers or termination or suspension of our relationships with them could materially and adversely impact our supply chain and laboratory operations of our diagnostic testing business and thus our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. These limited or sole suppliers could engage in diverse types of businesses, including selling products in competition with us, and there can be no assurance that we can continue to receive required equipment, instruments or materials from them. We believe that there are only a limited number of manufacturers that are capable of supplying and servicing the equipment and materials necessary for our laboratory operations, including sequencers and various associated reagents, and potentially replacing our current suppliers. The use of equipment or materials furnished by replacement suppliers would require us to alter our laboratory operations. Transitioning to a new supplier would be time-consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our laboratory operations, could affect the performance specifications of our laboratory operations or could require that we revalidate our tests. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure alternative equipment, reagents and other materials, bring such equipment, reagents and materials online, and revalidate our tests without experiencing interruptions in our workflow. In the case of an alternative supplier for Illumina, for example, there can be no assurance that replacement sequencers and various associated reagents will be available or will meet our quality control and performance requirements for our laboratory operations. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing, reconfiguring or integrating the equipment and reagents we require for our products or in revalidating our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Certain disruptions in supply of, and changes in the competitive environment for, raw materials and components integral to the manufacturing of our products may adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. We use a broad range of materials and supplies, including chemicals and other electronic components, in our Genomics product line. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials, including disruptions like those stemming from the pandemics and epidemics, could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, infectious disease, epidemics or pandemics, outbreaks, conflicts (including the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and the hostilities in the Middle East), civil unrest, acts of terrorism or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor (such as strikes by unionized workforces) or transportation in the markets in which we 72 purchase materials, components and supplies for the production of our diagnostic tests, in each case may adversely affect our ability to maintain our testing capacity. Unforeseen end-of-life or unavailability for certain components, such as enzymes, could cause backorders as we modify our product specifications to accommodate replacement components. If we were to experience a significant disruption in the supply of, or prolonged shortage of, critical components from any of our suppliers and could not procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to sustain our testing capacity, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and customer relations. If our existing laboratory and storage facilities become damaged or inoperable or we are required to vacate our existing facilities, our ability to perform our tests and pursue our research and development efforts may be jeopardized. We currently derive nearly all of our diagnostic revenue from tests performed at laboratory facilities located in Chicago, Illinois, Atlanta, Georgia, Raleigh, North Carolina, and Aliso Viejo, California and these facilities generally do not have completely redundant capabilities. Further, while we are currently in the process of expanding the number and type of diagnostic tests within our laboratory facility in Raleigh, North Carolina, there is no assurance that we will successfully transition in a timely manner or at all, and we may not be able to fully operationalize this facility to its capacity. Our facilities and equipment could be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including war, fire, earthquake, power loss, communications failure or terrorism, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to operate our Genomics product line for some period of time and which may also cause us to lose valuable stored tissue samples, including organoids. The inability to perform our tests or to reduce the backlog that could develop if a facility is inoperable for even a short period of time, may result in the loss of customers or harm to our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those customers or repair our reputation. Furthermore, our facilities and the equipment we use to perform our research and development work could be unavailable or costly and time-consuming to repair or replace. It would be difficult, time-consuming and expensive to rebuild a facility, to locate and qualify a new facility or enable a third party to practice our proprietary technology, particularly in light of licensure and accreditation requirements. Even if we are able to find a third party with such qualifications to perform our tests, the parties may be unable to agree on commercially reasonable terms. Our physical laboratory facilities are also subject to regulatory oversight, such by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, and certain state analogs. On occasion, certain safety issues are reported directly to OSHA. While we have been successful in promptly remediating any such issues, there is no guarantee we will be able to do so in the future, and these regulatory bodies could intervene and suspend our operations, which could have a material impact on our business. We carry insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business, but this insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with damage or disruption to our facilities and business, may not provide coverage in amounts sufficient to cover our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We rely on commercial courier delivery services to transport samples to our laboratory facility in a timely and cost-efficient manner and if these delivery services are disrupted, our business will be harmed. Our business depends on our ability to deliver test results quickly and reliably to our customers. Blood and tissue samples sent from the United States by patients, physicians or hospital pathology departments are typically received within days for analysis at our Chicago, Atlanta, Raleigh, or Aliso Viejo facilities. Disruptions in delivery services to transport samples to that facility, whether due to labor disruptions, bad weather, natural disaster, terrorist acts or threats or for other reasons could adversely affect specimen integrity and our ability to process samples in a timely manner, delay our provision of test results to our customers, and ultimately our reputation and our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to obtain expedited delivery services to transport samples to us on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot provide quality technical support and services for our Data and Services products, we could lose customers and our business and prospects will suffer. Our ability to provide relevant information to customers of our Data business, and in particular of our Insights product, depends substantially on our ability to provide quality technical support and services during the term of their license. Accordingly, we need highly trained technical support and services personnel. Hiring support and services personnel is very competitive in our industry due to the limited number of people available with the necessary scientific and technical backgrounds and ability to understand our products and the needs of our customers. To effectively support new customers and the expanding needs of current customers, we will need to substantially expand our support and services staff and develop our support infrastructure and processes. If we are unable to attract, train or retain the number of highly qualified technical services personnel that our business needs, our business and prospects will suffer. 73 Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. We believe that there are significant seasonal factors which may cause sales of our products, such as our Insights product and our infectious disease tests, to vary on a quarterly or yearly basis and increase the magnitude of quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including the procurement and budgeting cycles of many of our customers, especially pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. These customers typically have calendar year fiscal years, which result in a disproportionate amount of their purchasing activity occurring during our fourth quarter. These factors have contributed, and may contribute in the future, to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. These fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that our operating results in any particular period may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our sales have in the past, and may in the future, become more or less pronounced over time, and have in the past materially affected, and may in the future materially affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial, and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. We currently have limited international operations, but our business strategy incorporates potentially significant international expansion. We plan to conduct physician and patient association outreach activities, to extend laboratory capabilities, to expand payer relationships and to market our Data business to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers outside of the United States. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as privacy regulations, including regulations that limit our ability to collect and distribute and otherwise process de-identified patient data, tax laws, export and import restrictions, economic sanctions and embargoes, employment laws, healthcare regulatory requirements, including those governing diagnostic testing and reimbursement, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; failure by us, our distributors, our local partners to obtain regulatory approvals or certifications for the use of our products in various countries; additional potentially blocking or relevant third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; complexities and difficulties in obtaining intellectual property protection and maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; complexities associated with managing multiple payer reimbursement regimes, government payers, or patient self-pay systems; logistics and regulations associated with shipping blood samples, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; patient populations that are underrepresented in our databases; limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to perform our tests locally; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable, the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand and payment for our products and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency controls and cash repatriation restrictions; natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars (such as the armed conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and the hostilities in the Middle East), terrorism, and political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; public health or similar issues, such as epidemics or pandemics, that could cause business disruption; and regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, its books and records provisions, or its anti-bribery provisions. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenue and results of operations. 74 Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated Industry We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and rules, contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to data privacy and security. Our (or the third parties with whom we work) actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation (including class claims) and mass arbitration demands; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, receive, store, process, generate, use, transfer, disclose, make accessible, protect, secure, dispose of, transmit, and share (collectively, process) personal data and other sensitive information, including large amounts of personal health and financial information, proprietary and confidential business data, trade secrets, intellectual property, data we collect about trial participants in connection with clinical trials, and sensitive third-party data. Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations, such as various laws, regulations, guidance, industry standards, external and internal privacy and security policies, contractual requirements, and other obligations relating to data privacy and security. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act), and other similar laws (e.g., wiretapping laws). For example, HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, imposes specific requirements relating to the privacy, security, and transmission of individually identifiable protected health information. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, establishes a set of national privacy and security standards for the protection of PHI by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses, and certain healthcare providers that submit certain covered transactions electronically, or covered entities, and their business associates, which are persons or entities that perform certain services for, or on behalf of, a covered entity that involve creating, receiving, maintaining or transmitting PHI, and their covered subcontractors. We are a covered entity under HIPAA, and also routinely receive large amounts of PHI as a business associate under HIPAA, and therefore must comply with its requirements to protect the privacy and security of health information and must provide individuals with certain rights with respect to their health information. If we engage a business associate to help us carry out healthcare activities and functions, we must have a written business associate contract or other arrangement with the business associate that establishes specifically what the business associate has been engaged to do and requires the business associate to comply with the same requirements. Penalties for violations of these laws vary. For instance, a single breach incident can result in findings of violations of multiple HIPAA provisions. Penalties for failure to comply with a requirement of HIPAA and HITECH vary significantly, and include civil monetary penalties for each provision of HIPAA that is violated and, in certain circumstances, criminal penalties, including imprisonment and/or additional fines. A person who knowingly obtains or discloses individually identifiable health information in violation of HIPAA may face additional fines and up to one-year imprisonment. The criminal penalties increase if the wrongful conduct involves false pretenses or the intent to sell, transfer, or use identifiable health information for commercial advantage, personal gain, or malicious harm. In addition, any allegation that we have violated HIPAA, regardless of its merit, could harm our reputation and consume significant internal resources. Responding to government investigations regarding alleged violations of these and other laws and regulations, even if ultimately concluded with no findings of violations or no penalties imposed, can consume company resources and impact our business and, if public, harm our reputation. Numerous U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. As applicable, such rights may include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt-out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making. The exercise of these rights may impact our business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the CCPA applies to personal data of consumers, business representatives, and employees who are California residents, and requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and honor requests of such individuals to exercise certain privacy rights. The CCPA provides for fines and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. The CCPA and other comprehensive U.S. state privacy laws exempt some data processed in the context of clinical trials, but these developments may further complicate compliance efforts, and increase legal risk and compliance costs for us, the third parties with whom we work. Similar laws are being considered in several other states, as well as at the federal and local levels, and we expect more states to pass similar laws in the future. 75 We are also subject to new laws governing the privacy of consumer health data. For example, Washingtons My Health My Data Act broadly defines consumer health data, places restrictions on processing consumer health data (including imposing stringent requirements for consents), provides consumers certain rights with respect to their health data, and creates a private right of action to allow individuals to sue for violations of the law. Other states are considering and may adopt similar laws. These laws and regulations are not necessarily preempted by HIPAA, particularly if a state affords greater protection to individuals than HIPAA. Where state laws differ from HIPAA, we may have to comply with these provisions. In addition to fines and penalties imposed upon violators, some of these state laws also afford private rights of action to individuals who believe their personal information has been misused. The interplay of federal and state laws may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our clients, and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability. Further, as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and laws and regulations concerning the protection of personal information expand and become more complex, these potential risks to our business could intensify. Changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as PHI or other types of sensitive personally identifiable information, or PII, or increased demands for enhanced data security infrastructure applied to personally identifiable information, could greatly increase our costs of providing our products, decrease demand for our products, reduce our revenue and/or subject us to additional risks. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer, health-related, and data protection laws, especially with respect to genetic samples and data, in the United States, the EU (including all countries in the EEA), and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory, and in flux. Outside the United States, an increasing number of laws, regulations, and industry standards govern data privacy and security. For example, EU GDPR and UK GDPR (collectively, GDPR) impose strict requirements for processing personal data. For example, under the GDPR, companies may face temporary or definitive bans on data processing and other corrective actions; fines of up to 20 million Euros under the EU GDPR, 17.5 million pounds sterling under the UK GDPR or, in each case, 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater; or private litigation related to processing of personal data brought by classes of data subjects or consumer protection organizations authorized at law to represent their interests. The GDPR enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, higher standards for obtaining consent from individuals to process their personal data, more robust disclosures to individuals and a strengthened individual data rights regime, timelines for data breach notifications as short as 72 hours for notification to supervisory authorities, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data, other special categories of personal sequencing and pseudonymized (i.e., key-coded) data and additional obligations when we contract third-party processors in connection with the processing of the personal data. The GDPR provides that EU member states may make their own further laws and regulations limiting the processing of personal data, including genetic, biometric or health data, which could limit our ability to use and share personal data or could cause our costs to increase, and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we transfer personal data from Europe and other jurisdictions to the United States or other countries. Europe and other jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring data to be localized or limiting the transfer of personal data to other countries. In particular, the EEA and the UK have significantly restricted the transfer of personal data to the United States and other countries whose privacy laws it generally believes are inadequate. Other jurisdictions may adopt or have already adopted similarly stringent data localization and cross-border data transfer laws. Although there are currently various mechanisms that may be used to transfer personal data from the EEA and UK to the United States in compliance with law, such as the EEA standard contractual clauses, the UKs International Data Transfer Agreement / Addendum, and the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK extension thereto (which allows for transfers to relevant U.S.-based organizations who self-certify compliance and participate in the Framework), these mechanisms are subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to the United States. If there is no lawful manner for us to transfer personal data from the EEA, the UK or other jurisdictions to the United States, or if the requirements for a legally-compliant transfer are too onerous, we could face significant adverse consequences, including the interruption or degradation of our operations, the need to relocate part of or all of our business or data processing activities to other jurisdictions (such as Europe) at significant expense, increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines and penalties, the inability to transfer data and work with partners, vendors and other third parties, and injunctions against our processing or transferring of personal data necessary to operate our business. Additionally, companies that transfer personal data out of the EEA and UK to other jurisdictions, particularly to the United States, are subject to increased scrutiny from regulators, individual litigants, and activist groups. Some European regulators have ordered certain companies to suspend or permanently cease certain transfers out of Europe for allegedly violating the GDPRs cross-border data transfer limitations. For example, in May 2023, the Irish Data Protection Commission determined that a major social media companys use of the standard contractual clauses to transfer personal data from Europe to the United States was insufficient and levied a 1.2 billion Euro fine against the company and prohibited the company from transferring personal data to the United States. Regulators in the United States such as the Department of Justice are also 76 increasingly scrutinizing certain personal data transfers and have proposed and may enact certain data localization requirements, for example, the Biden Administrations executive order Preventing Access to Americans Bulk Sensitive Personal Data and United States Government-Related Data by Countries of Concern. Our employees and personnel use generative AI and machine learning technologies to perform their work, and the disclosure and use of personal data in generative AI technologies is subject to various privacy laws and other privacy obligations. Governments have passed and are likely to pass additional laws regulating generative AI. Our use of this technology could result in additional compliance costs, regulatory investigations and actions, and lawsuits. If we are unable to use generative AI, it could make our business less efficient and result in competitive disadvantages. We use AI/machine learning to assist us in making certain decisions, which is regulated by certain privacy laws. Due to inaccuracies or flaws in the inputs, outputs, or logic of the AI/machine learning, the model could be biased and could lead us to make decisions that could bias certain individuals (or classes of individuals), and adversely impact their rights, employment, and ability to obtain certain pricing, products, services, or benefits. In addition, we use AI, including generative AI, and machine learning technologies in our products and services . The development and use of AI/machine learning present various privacy and security risks that may impact our business. AI/machine learning are subject to privacy and data security laws, as well as increasing regulation and scrutiny. Several jurisdictions around the globe, including Europe and certain U.S. states, have proposed enacted, or are considering laws governing the development and use of AI/machine learning, such as the EUs AI Act. We expect other jurisdictions will adopt similar laws. Additionally, certain privacy laws extend rights to consumers (such as the right to delete certain personal data) and regulate automated decision making, which may be incompatible with our use of AI/machine learning. These obligations may make it harder for us to conduct our business using AI/machine learning, lead to regulatory fines or penalties, require us to change our business practices, retrain our AI/machine learning, or prevent or limit our use of AI/machine learning. For example, the FTC has required other companies to turn over (or disgorge) valuable insights or trainings generated through the use of AI/machine learning where they allege the company has violated privacy and consumer protection laws. If we cannot use AI/machine learning or that use is restricted, our business may be less efficient, or we may be at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, under various privacy laws and other obligations, we may be required to obtain certain consents to process personal data. For example, some of our data processing practices may be challenged under wiretapping laws, if we obtain consumer information from third parties through various methods, including chatbot and session replay providers, or via third-party marketing pixels. These practices may be subject to increased challenges by class action plaintiffs. Our inability or failure to obtain consent for these practices could result in adverse consequences, including class action litigation and mass arbitration demands. In addition to data privacy and security laws, we are contractually subject to industry standards adopted by industry groups and, we are, and may become in the future, subject to such obligations. We are also bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be successful. We publish privacy policies, marketing materials, whitepapers, and other statements, such as statements related to compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory principles, concerning data privacy, security and artificial intelligence. Regulators in the United States are increasingly scrutinizing these statements, and if these policies, materials or statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive, unfair, misleading, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators or other adverse consequences . Obligations related to data privacy and security (and consumers data privacy expectations) are quickly changing, becoming increasingly stringent, and creating uncertainty. Additionally, these obligations may be subject to differing applications and interpretations, which may be inconsistent or conflict among jurisdictions. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires us to devote significant resources, which may necessitate changes to our services, information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf. In addition, these obligations may require us to change our business model. We may at times fail (or be perceived to have failed) in our efforts to comply with our data privacy and security obligations. Moreover, despite our efforts, our personnel or third parties with whom we work may fail to comply with such obligations, which could negatively impact our business operations. Future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional privacy and compliance risks, and we and the companies we have acquired have been, and may in the future, be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations and other risks relating to privacy and security arising out of business transactions. For example, Ambry, which we acquired in February 2025, experienced a data breach in 2020 for which a regulatory investigation is ongoing, and for which the Seller (as defined below) agreed to indemnify us for any liabilities arising therefrom. If we or the third parties with whom we work fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with applicable data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant consequences , including but not limited to: government enforcement actions (e.g., investigations, fines, penalties, audits, inspections, and similar); litigation (including class-action 77 claims) and mass arbitration demands; additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; bans or restrictions on processing personal data; orders to destroy or not use personal data; and imprisonment of company officials . In particular, plaintiffs have become increasingly more active in bringing privacy-related claims against companies, including class claims and mass arbitration demands. Some of these claims allow for the recovery of statutory damages on a per violation basis, and, if viable, carry the potential for monumental statutory damages, depending on the volume of data and the number of violations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition, including but not limited to: loss of customers; interruptions or stoppages in our business operations (including, as relevant, clinical trials); interruptions or stoppages of data collection needed to train our algorithms; inability to process personal data or to operate in certain jurisdictions; limited ability to develop or commercialize our products; expenditure of time and resources to defend any claim or inquiry; adverse publicity; or substantial changes to our business model or operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may, directly or indirectly, reduce our revenue, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The diagnostic testing industry is highly regulated, and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely to us in the future. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation: federal and state laws applicable to test ordering, documentation of tests ordered, billing practices and claims payment and/or regulatory agencies enforcing those laws and regulations; federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws; federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws; coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental payers and private insurers; restrictions on coverage of and reimbursement for tests; federal and state laws governing laboratory testing, including CLIA, and state licensing laws; federal and state laws and enforcement policies governing the development, use and distribution of diagnostic medical devices, including laboratory developed tests, or LDTs; federal and state laws and enforcement policies governing the use of AI in analyzing data, including data in healthcare related areas; federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste; federal and state Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules and regulations; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and similar state data privacy and security laws; and consumer protection laws; and Similar foreign laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate or may operate in the future. In particular, the laws and regulations governing the marketing of diagnostic tests are complex, and there are often no sufficient regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. For example, some of our diagnostic tests are actively regulated by the FDA pursuant to the medical device provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. The FDA defines a medical device to include any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, contrivance, implant, in vitro reagent or other similar or related article, including a component, part or accessory, intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, or in the cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease, in man or other animals. Many of our genomic and algorithmic diagnostic tests are likely to be considered by the FDA to be medical devices. Among other things, pursuant to the FDCA and its implementing regulations, the FDA regulates the research, design, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, premarket clearance or approval, marketing and promotion and sales and distribution of medical devices in the United States to ensure that medical devices distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In addition, the FDA regulates the import and export of medical devices. In the EEA, in order to place an in vitro diagnostic medical device, or IVD, or an accessory to an IVD, on the market, or put it into service in the EEA, the device must be designed, developed, manufactured and marketed in compliance with the relevant legal 78 framework. On May 26, 2022, the Regulation on In-Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (Regulation (EU) 2017/746), or IVDR, entered into application, repealing and replacing the Directive on In-Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices (98/79/EC), or the IVDD. The IVDR and its associated guidance documents and harmonized standards governing, among other things, device design and development, preclinical and clinical or performance testing, premarket conformity assessment, registration and listing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, claims, sales and distribution, export and import and post-market surveillance, vigilance, and market surveillance. The IVDR also establishes transitional provisions permitting certain devices that have been CE marked in accordance with the IVDD to continue to be placed on the EEA market under strict conditions and for a specific period of time depending on the risk classification of the device. Medical devices are governed by the Regulation on Medical Devices (Regulation (EU) 2017/745) (MDR) which entered into application on May 26, 2021, repealing and replacing the Directive on Medical Devices (93/42/EC) (the MDD). The MDR establishes similar provisions to the IVDR in relation to medical devices. If we do not comply with these requirements or fail to adequately comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Changes in the current regulatory framework for algorithmic diagnostic products and services can impose additional regulatory burdens on us. The FDA is also currently considering the development of novel regulatory pathways for AI technologies and other software. As the regulatory framework evolves, we may incur substantial costs to ensure compliance with new or amended laws and regulations. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions against us, damage to our reputation and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our tests are currently marketed as LDTs, and future changes in FDA enforcement discretion for LDTs could subject our operations to much more significant regulatory requirements. The FDA has historically operated under a policy of enforcement discretion with respect to LDTs whereby the FDA did not actively enforce its regulatory requirements for such tests. On May 6, 2024, the FDA published final regulations that took effect on July 5, 2024 that will phase-out enforcement discretion over a period of four years and require compliance with device registration and listing requirements, medical device reporting requirements, 510(k) clearance, denovo authorization or Premarket Approval and the requirements of the FDAs Quality System Regulation. If we fail to phase-in our compliance with these regulations we may be required to stop selling our existing tests or launching any other tests we may develop and to conduct additional clinical trials or take other actions prior to continuing to market our tests. This could significantly increase the costs and expenses of conducting, or otherwise harm, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if such tests are authorized for marketing by the FDA, the agency could limit the tests indications for use, which may significantly limit the market for that product and may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Additionally, because our Platform and other software applications we make available include functionality related to the reporting of results from the LDTs we run, the FDA could attempt to regulate the software applications, including portions of our Platform, that we utilize to provide results of the LDTs to our customers and this may require costly modifications, additional development or the reduction in functionality in our offerings which could, in turn, make them less attractive to our customers. There is no guarantee that the FDA will grant 510(k) clearance or a premarket approval or that comparable foreign regulatory authorities will grant the necessary clearance, approval or certification of our products and failure to obtain necessary clearances, approvals or certification for our products would adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Before we begin to label and market certain of our products for use as clinical diagnostics in the United States, including as companion diagnostics, we may be required to obtain either 510(k) clearance or a premarket approval, or supplemental premarket approval, or respectively, PMA or sPMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies or FDA exercises its enforcement discretion and refrains from enforcing its medical device requirements. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval can be a rigorous, costly, lengthy and uncertain process. In the PMA process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is safe and effective for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, pre-clinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is substantially equivalent to a device legally on the market, known as a predicate device, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. To be substantially equivalent, the proposed device must have the same intended use as the predicate device, and either have the same technological characteristics as the predicate device or have different technological characteristics and not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness than the predicate device. Clinical data is sometimes required to support a substantial equivalence determination. 79 The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: our inability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that our products are safe or effective for their intended uses; the disagreement of the FDA with the design, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials or the analysis or interpretation of data from our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials; serious and unexpected adverse effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; our inability to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of any of our tests outweigh the risks; an advisory committee, if convened by the FDA, may recommend against approval of our PMA or other application for any of our tests or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions, or even if an advisory committee, if convened, makes a favorable recommendation, the FDA may still not approve the test; the FDA may identify deficiencies in our marketing application, and in our manufacturing processes, facilities or analytical methods or those of our third-party contract manufacturers; the potential for approval policies or regulations of the FDA to change significantly in a manner rendering our clinical data or regulatory filings insufficient for the clearance or approval; and the FDA may audit our clinical trial data and conclude that the data is not sufficiently reliable to support a PMA application. In foreign jurisdictions, we may be required to procure similar regulatory approvals, clearances or certification prior to marketing our diagnostic products. For example, in the Europe Union, we need to comply with the new MDR and IVDR. IVDs must comply with the General Safety and Performance Requirements (GSPRs) set out in Annex I to the IVDR and medical devices must comply with the GSPRs set out in Annex I to the MDR. Compliance with these requirements is a prerequisite to be able to affix the CE Mark to IVDs or medical devices, without which they cannot be marketed or sold in the EEA. To demonstrate compliance with the GSPRs provided in the IVDR or the MDR and obtain the right to affix the CE mark, medical devices manufacturers must undergo a conformity assessment procedure. Depending on the type of IVD or medical device and its classification, the conformity assessment procedure may require the intervention of a Notified Body. The Notified Body issues a CE Certificate of Conformity following successful completion of a conformity assessment procedure conducted in relation to the IVD or medical device and its manufacturer and their conformity with the GSPRs. This Certificate and the related conformity assessment process entitles the manufacturer to affix the CE mark to its IVDs or medical devices after having prepared and signed a related EU Declaration of Conformity. Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals, clearances or certification in foreign jurisdictions can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, clearances or certification would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Modifications to our FDA-cleared, approved or CE marked products may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals or certification, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. For any product approved pursuant to a PMA, we are required to seek supplemental approval for many types of changes to the approved product, for which we will need to determine whether a PMA supplement or other regulatory filing is needed or whether the change may be reported via the PMA Annual Report. Similarly, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a new PMA. If the FDA requires us to seek approvals or clearances for modifications to our previously approved or cleared products, for which we concluded that new approvals or clearances are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or distribution of our products or to recall the modified product until we obtain the approval or clearance, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Similarly, in the EU, for any products we have CE marked, future changes or updates to our products, which affect their safety or efficacy, may require new Notified Body certification before we may sell the revised product. 80 Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA or another governmental authority or regulatory authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us. The FDA and international regulatory bodies have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products that are subject to FDA or foreign applicable regulation in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. We may also, on our own initiative, recall a product. The FDA, for example, requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within ten working days after the recall is initiated. In the case of FDA-approved tests or CE marked tests in the EU, a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, malfunctions, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to liability claims, may be required to bear costs or may take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification to the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority. If the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority disagrees with our determinations, the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority could require us to report those actions and take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we initiate a correction or removal for one of our tests, issue a safety alert or undertake a field action or recall to reduce a risk to health imposed by the test, this could lead to increased scrutiny by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our tests and to negative publicity, including FDA or a foreign regulatory authority alerts, press releases or administrative or judicial actions. Furthermore, circulation of any such negative publicity could harm our reputation, be used by competitors against us in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions or cancel orders. Arterys, Inc., a company we acquired in 2022, has developed several medical devices that are regulated by the FDA and EU legislation governing medical devices. Arterys also distributes devices developed by third parties. If we identify an issue with, or propose changes to, one of these devices that impacts patient safety or causes us to undertake a field action or implement a recall, our business operations and reputation could be harmed in a meaningful way. Our research use only and any potential investigational use only products could become subject to more onerous regulation by the FDA or other regulatory authorities in the future, which could increase our costs and delay our commercialization efforts, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, some of our products are currently available, or may become available, for research use only, or RUO, or for investigational use only, or IUO, depending on the proposed application. We make our RUO and IUO products available to a variety of parties, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research institutes. Because RUO and IUO products are not intended for use in clinical practice and cannot be advertised or promoted for clinical or diagnostic claims, they are exempt from many regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to medical devices. In particular, while the FDA regulations require that RUO products be labeled For Research Use Only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures, and that IUO products be labeled For Investigational Use Only. The performance characteristics of this product have not been established, such products are not subject to the FDAs pre- and post-market controls for medical devices. A significant change in the laws governing RUO or IUO products or how they are enforced may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance. For instance, in November 2013 the FDA issued a guidance document entitled Distribution of In Vitro Diagnostic Products Labeled for Research Use Only or Investigational Use Only, or the RUO/IUO Guidance, which highlights the FDAs interpretation that distribution of RUO or IUO products with any labeling, advertising or promotion that suggests that clinical laboratories can validate the test through their own procedures and subsequently offer it for clinical diagnostic use as an LDT is in conflict with the RUO or IUO status. The RUO/IUO Guidance further articulates the FDAs position that any assistance offered in performing clinical validation or verification, or similar specialized technical support, to clinical laboratories, is in conflict with RUO or IUO status. If we engage in any activities that the FDA deems to be in conflict with the RUO or IUO status held by any of our products so labeled, we may be subject to immediate, severe and broad FDA enforcement action that would adversely affect our ability to continue operations. Accordingly, if the FDA finds that we are distributing our RUO or IUO products in a manner that is inconsistent with its RUO/IUO Guidance, we may be forced to stop distribution of our RUO/IUO tests until we are in compliance, which would reduce our revenue, increase our costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 81 Even if we receive regulatory approval or certification of our products, we will continue to be subject to extensive regulatory oversight. Medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States, European Union legislation in the European Economic Area, or EEA, enforced by the Competent Authorities of EEA countries, and comparable regulatory authorities in other territories where we do or may do business. If any of our products are approved by the FDA, or other comparable foreign regulatory authorities, or CE marked in accordance with EU legislation governing medical devices or IVDs, we will be required to timely file various reports. If these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a condition of approving a PMA application, the FDA may also require some form of post-approval study or post-market surveillance, whereby the applicant conducts a follow-up study or follows certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the FDA on the clinical status of those patients when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. The product labeling must be updated and submitted in a PMA supplement as results, including any adverse event data from the post-approval study, become available. Failure to conduct or timely complete post-approval studies in compliance with applicable regulations, update the product labeling, or comply with other post-approval requirements could result in withdrawal of approval of the PMA, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations Similar considerations and requirements apply in relation to those products we have CE marked in the EEA, or for any products we may CE mark in the future in accordance with the IVDR or the MDR. The FDA the FTC and comparable foreign regulatory authorities also regulate the advertising and promotion of medical devices to ensure that their promotional claims made are consistent with the applicable marketing authorizations or certification, that there are adequate and reasonable data to substantiate the claims, and that the promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. If the FDA, FTC or a comparable foreign regulatory authority determines that any of our promotional claims are false, misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions and we may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. The FDA, state and foreign authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, state or foreign regulatory authorities, or actions by Notified Bodies in the EEA in relation to the CE Certificate of Conformity they have issued in accordance with EU legislation governing medical devices or IVDs, which may include any of the following sanctions: adverse publicity, warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; repair, replacement, refunds, recalls, termination of distribution, administrative detention or seizures of our products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; customer notifications or repair, replacement or refunds; refusing our requests for clearances, approvals or certification of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products; withdrawals of current clearances, approvals or certification, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products; refusal to issue certificates needed to export products for sale in other countries; and criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could also result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our current or future products under development. For example, in November 2018, FDA officials announced forthcoming steps that the FDA intends to take to modernize the premarket notification pathway under Section 510(k) of the FDCA. Similar considerations apply in foreign countries. Among other things, the FDA announced that it planned to develop proposals to drive manufacturers utilizing the 510(k) pathway toward the use of newer predicates. These proposals included plans to potentially sunset certain older devices that were used as predicates under the 510(k) clearance pathway, and to potentially publish a list of devices that have been cleared on the basis of demonstrated substantial equivalence to predicate devices that are more than 10 years old. In May 2019, the FDA solicited public feedback on these proposals. The FDA requested public feedback on whether it should consider certain actions that might require new authority, such as whether to sunset certain older devices that were used as 82 predicates under the 510(k) clearance pathway. These proposals have not yet been finalized or adopted, and the FDA may work with Congress to implement such proposals through legislation. Accordingly, it is unclear the extent to which any proposals, if adopted, could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances, increase the costs of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances, or otherwise create competition that may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA may establish performance criteria for classes of devices for which we or our competitors seek or currently have received clearance, and it is unclear the extent to which such performance standards, if established, could impact our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances or otherwise create competition that may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The changes to the regulatory system implemented in the EU by the IVDR and the MDR include stricter requirements for clinical evidence and pre-market assessment of safety and performance, new classifications to indicate risk levels, requirements for third party testing by Notified Bodies, tightened and streamlined quality management system assessment procedures and additional requirements for the quality management system, additional requirements for traceability of products and transparency as well a refined responsibility of economic operators. We would also be required to provide clinical data in the form of a clinical evaluation or performance report. Fulfillment of the obligations imposed by these Regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs. We may be unable to fulfill these obligations, or our Notified Body may consider that we have not adequately demonstrated compliance with our related obligations to merit the issuance of a CE Certificate of Conformity under the IVDR or the MDR for any of our products, or the continued use of any CE Certificate of Conformity issued under the IVDR or MDR. Any new statutes, regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our current or future products or make it more difficult to obtain clearance or approval for, manufacture, market or distribute our products. The FDAs and other regulatory authorities policies may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory clearance, approval or certification of our diagnostic tests. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad, including the potential impact of the U.S. Supreme Courts decision in Loper Bright Enterprises vs. Raimondo, which curtails the power of federal agencies to interpret the laws they administer. We may never obtain approval or certification in foreign jurisdictions for any of our products and, even if we do, we may never be able to commercialize them in any other jurisdiction, which would limit our ability to realize their full market potential. In order to eventually market any of our current or future products in any particular foreign jurisdiction, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis regarding quality, safety, data privacy, performance and efficacy. In addition, products offered in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries. Approval and certification processes vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. Seeking foreign regulatory clearance, authorization, approval or certification could result in difficulties and costs for us and require additional studies, trials or investigations which could be costly and time-consuming. Regulatory requirements and ethical approval obligations can vary widely from country to country and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in those countries. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required regulatory clearances, authorizations, approvals or certification in international markets, or if those approvals or certification are delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be unrealized. Failure to comply with federal, state and foreign laboratory licensing requirements and the applicable requirements of the FDA or any other regulatory authority, could cause us to lose the ability to perform our tests, experience disruptions to our business, or become subject to administrative or judicial sanctions. We are subject to CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA regulations 83 establish specific standards with respect to personnel qualifications, facility administration, proficiency testing, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. Any testing subject to CLIA regulation must be performed in a CLIA certified laboratory. CLIA certification is also required in order for us to be eligible to bill state and federal healthcare programs, as well as commercial payers, for our tests. We have a current CLIA certificate to perform our tests at our laboratories in Chicago, Illinois, Atlanta, Georgia, Raleigh, North Carolina and Aliso Viejo, California. To maintain this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our laboratory from time to time. Similar considerations may apply in foreign countries. We are also required to maintain clinical laboratory licenses to perform testing in Illinois, Georgia, and North Carolina. State laboratory laws establish standards for day-to-day operation of our clinical laboratories, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. In addition, some other states require our laboratories to be licensed in the state in order to test specimens from those states. In addition to Illinois, North Carolina and Georgia, our laboratories are licensed in California, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, New York and Maryland. Although we have obtained licenses from states where we believe we are required to be licensed, it is possible that other states we are not aware of currently require out-of-state laboratories to obtain licensure in order to test specimens from the state, and that other states may adopt similar requirements in the future. We may also be subject to regulations in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international utilization of our tests or as such jurisdictions adopt new licensure requirements, which may require review of our tests in order to offer them or may have other limitations such as restrictions on the transport of specimens necessary for us to perform our tests that may limit our ability to make our tests available outside of the United States. Complying with licensure requirements in new jurisdictions may be expensive, time-consuming and subject us to significant and unanticipated delays. Failure to comply with applicable clinical laboratory licensure requirements may result in a range of enforcement actions, including suspension, limitation or revocation of our CLIA certificate and/or state licenses, imposition of a directed plan of action, on-site monitoring, civil monetary penalties, criminal sanctions, inability to receive reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and commercial payers, as well as significant adverse publicity. Any sanction imposed under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or state or foreign laws or regulations governing clinical laboratory licensure or our failure to renew our CLIA certificate, a state or foreign license or accreditation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we were able to bring our laboratory back into compliance, we could incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenue in doing so. In order to test specimens from New York, LDTs must be approved by the New York State Department of Health, or NYSDOH, on a product-by-product basis before they are offered, and versions of our xT and xF tests have been approved by NYSDOH. We will need to seek NYSDOH approval of any future LDTs we develop, or for modifications to our existing LDTs, and want to offer for clinical testing to New York residents, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval. As a result, we are subject to periodic inspection by the NYSDOH and are required to demonstrate ongoing compliance with NYSDOH regulations and standards. To the extent NYSDOH identifies any non-compliance and we are unable to implement satisfactory corrective actions to remedy such non-compliance, the State of New York could withdraw approval for our tests. The College of American Pathologists, or CAP, maintains a clinical laboratory accreditation program. While not required to operate a CLIA-certified laboratory, many private insurers require CAP accreditation as a condition to contracting with clinical laboratories to cover their tests. In addition, some countries outside the United States require CAP accreditation as a condition to permitting clinical laboratories to test samples taken from their citizens. We have obtained CAP accreditation for our Chicago, Atlanta, Raleigh, North Carolina, and Aliso Viejo, California laboratories. In order to maintain CAP accreditation, we are subject to survey for compliance with CAP standards every two years. Failure to maintain CAP accreditation could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our tests and the results of our operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign healthcare statutes and regulations; complying with such laws pertaining to our business is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties and a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to other extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, all of which are subject to change. These laws and regulations may include, among others: the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, or AKS, which prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind (e.g. provision of free or discounted goods, services or items), in return for or to induce such person to refer an individual, or to purchase, 84 lease, order, arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing or ordering, any good, facility, item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program. The term remuneration has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, such as phlebotomy kits. Although there are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration that are alleged to be intended to induce referrals, purchases or recommendations of covered items or services may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the AKS. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all its facts and circumstances. Several courts have held that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the AKS has been violated. Moreover, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Violations are subject to significant civil monetary penalties, plus up to three times the remuneration involved. Violations of the AKS may also result in criminal penalties, including additional fines and imprisonment of up to ten years, and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs; the Eliminating Kickbacks in Recovery Act of 2018, or EKRA, which prohibits knowingly and willfully soliciting or receiving any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate) directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in return for referring a patient or patronage to a laboratory; or paying or offering any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate) directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce a referral of an individual to a laboratory or in exchange for an individual using the services of that laboratory. EKRA was enacted to help reduce opioid-related fraud and abuse. However, EKRA defines the term laboratory broadly and without reference to any connection to substance use disorder treatment. The EKRA applies to all payers including commercial payers and government payers. Violations of EKRA are subject to significant fines and/or up to 10 years in jail, separate and apart from existing AKS regulations and penalties. The law includes a limited number of exceptions, some of which closely align with corresponding AKS exceptions and safe harbors, and others that materially differ. Currently, there is no regulation interpreting or implementing EKRA, nor any guidance released by a federal agency regarding the scope of EKRA. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that our relationships with providers, sales representatives, or customers will not be subject to scrutiny or will withstand regulatory challenge under EKRA; the Stark Law, which prohibits a physician from making a referral for certain designated health services covered by the Medicare or Medicaid program, including laboratory and pathology services, if the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has a financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services and prohibits that entity from billing, presenting or causing to be presented a claim for the designated health services furnished pursuant to the prohibited referral, unless an exception applies. Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include denial of payment, significant civil monetary penalties (on a per claim basis and additional penalties for a circumvention scheme), and exclusion from the federal healthcare programs; the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the offering or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiarys selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state healthcare program, unless an exception applies. Violations can result in significant civil monetary penalties for each wrongful act; federal and state Anti-Markup rules, which, among other things, typically prohibit a physician or supplier billing for clinical or diagnostic tests (with certain exceptions) from marking up the price of a purchased test performed by another physician or supplier that does not share a practice with the billing physician or supplier; the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, biologicals, and kits, medical devices or supplies that require premarket approval by or notification to the FDA, and for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Childrens Health Insurance Program to report annually to CMS, information related to (i) payments and other transfers of value to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors), other healthcare professionals (such as physician assistants and nurse practitioners), and teaching hospitals; and (ii) ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to submit required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties for any payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately, and completely reported in an annual submission, and may result in liability under other federal laws or regulations; 85 the federal government may bring a lawsuit under the False Claims Act, or the FCA, against any party whom it believes has knowingly or recklessly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to get a claim for payment approved. The federal government and a number of courts have taken the position that claims presented in violation of certain other statutes, including the AKS or the Stark Law, can also be considered a violation of the FCA based on the theory that a provider impliedly certifies compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and other rules when submitting claims for reimbursement. An FCA violation may provide the basis for the imposition of administrative penalties as well as exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. A number of states including California have enacted laws that are similar to the federal FCA. Private individuals can bring FCA qui tam actions, on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as whistleblowers, may share in amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the FCA, the government may impose civil fines and penalties for each false claim, plus treble damages, and exclude the entity from participation in federal healthcare programs; the HIPAA fraud and abuse provisions, which created federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private insurers, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a healthcare benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose obligations on covered entities, including certain healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their respective business associates that create, receive, maintain or transmit individually identifiable health information for or on behalf of a covered entity, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, and their covered subcontractors; federal and state laws related to, among other things, unlawful schemes to defraud, excessive fees for services, unlawful trade practices, insurance fraud, kickbacks, patient inducement and statutory or common law fraud restrict the provision of products, services or items for free or at reduced charge to government or non-government healthcare program beneficiaries. These laws and regulations relating to the provision of items or services for free are complex and are subject to interpretation by the courts and by government agencies; other federal and state fraud and abuse laws, such as state anti-kickback, self-referrals, false claims and anti- markup laws, any of which may extend to services reimbursable by any payer, including private insurers; state laws that prohibit other specified practices, such as billing physicians for tests that they order; providing tests at no or discounted cost to induce adoption; waiving co-insurance, co-payments, deductibles or other amounts owed by patients; billing a state healthcare program at a price that is higher than what is charged to other payers; or employing, exercising control over or splitting fees with licensed medical professionals; and similar foreign laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate or may operate in the future. As a clinical laboratory, our business practices may face additional scrutiny from various government agencies such as the Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, and CMS. Certain arrangements between clinical laboratories and referring physicians have been identified in fraud alerts issued by the OIG as implicating the AKS. The OIG has stated that it is particularly concerned about these types of arrangements because the choice of laboratory and the decision to order laboratory tests typically are made or strongly influenced by the physician, with little or no patient input. Moreover, the provision of payments or other items of value by a clinical laboratory to a referral source could be prohibited under the Stark Law unless the arrangement meets all criteria of an exception. The government has been active in enforcement of these laws against clinical laboratories. Numerous states have enacted laws prohibiting business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine and from employing or engaging physicians and other medical professionals (generally referred to as the prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine), which could include physician laboratory directors. These laws are designed to prevent interference in the medical decision-making process by anyone who is not a licensed medical professional. For example, the medical boards of certain states have indicated that determining the appropriate diagnostic tests for a particular condition and taking responsibility for the ultimate overall care of a patient, including making treatment options available to the patient, would constitute the unlicensed practice of medicine if performed by an unlicensed person. Violation of these laws may result in sanctions and civil or criminal penalties. It is possible that governmental authorities may conclude that our business practices, including our consulting and advisory board arrangements with physicians and other healthcare providers, a small 86 number of whom may receive stock or stock options as compensation for services provided, do not comply with current or future corporate practice of medicine statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law. The growth and international expansion of our business may increase the potential of violating applicable laws and regulations. The risk is further increased by the fact that many such laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Efforts to ensure that our internal operations and business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. Any action brought against us for violation of these or other laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our managements attention from the operation of our business. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent our business operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or regulations, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, including, without limitation, damages, monetary fines, individual imprisonment, disgorgement of profits, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, additional reporting or oversight obligations if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or other agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with the law and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and pursue our strategy. If any of the healthcare providers or other parties with whom we interact or may interact in the future, are found not to be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from participation in various healthcare programs, which could also negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have received requests for medical records and billing information from certain Unified Program Integrity Contractors, or UPICs, regarding clinical diagnostic services provided by Tempus to patients enrolled in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Federal and state governments continue to pursue enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of investigations, inspections, audits, citations of regulatory deficiencies, and other regulatory sanctions including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bans on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, and civil monetary penalties or criminal penalties. These policies may impact our business. For example, on May 19, 2022, we received a subpoena from the Office of the Ohio Attorney General. The subpoena required production of certain billing and patient records associated with nine Ohio Medicaid patients who received our clinical diagnostic tests between 2019 and 2022. We provided responsive documents in June 2022 and have not received any additional inquiry since that time. Similarly, on March 4, 2024, we received a Civil Investigative Demand, or CID, from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. The CID requested documents and other information related to our compliance with the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback statute, and in particular 42 C.F.R. 414.510(b), which is commonly referred to as the Medicare 14-Day Rule. We provided an initial production on April 4, 2024, and have continued to produce responsive documents on a rolling basis since that time. While we believe our programs and payments comply with the Anti-Kickback statute, no assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of the governments investigation, or that it will not result in a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we expect audits under the CMS Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC, program, the CMS Targeted Probe and Educate, or TPE, program, the UPIC program and other federal and state audits evaluating the medical necessity of services to further intensify the regulatory environment surrounding the healthcare industry as third-party firms engaged by CMS and others conduct extensive reviews of Tempus claims data and medical and other records to identify improper payments to healthcare providers under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and prohibitions applicable to our businesses, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties, or be required to make significant changes to our operations and refund certain payments we have received. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to investigations, audits or other enforcement actions related to these laws, regulations or prohibitions. Our status as both a healthcare company and a technology company presents unique complexities when attempting to comply with these myriad laws and regulations. For example, certain data services we provide as a technology company may result in compensating other healthcare providers for access to data or the right to commercialize de-identified data. While such services, standing alone, appear routine, the compliance issues become more complex when considering our status as a healthcare provider that performs clinical diagnostic testing on behalf of healthcare providers. We have implemented programs to ensure we comply with all applicable laws and regulations notwithstanding these complexities; however, we cannot guarantee we will be successful in doing so, or that government enforcement agencies will agree that our efforts have been sufficient. Accordingly, we may be subject to enforcement actions that could materially impact our reputation, operations, and results. 87 If the validity of an informed consent from patients regarding our tests was challenged, we could be forced to stop offering our products or using our resources, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. We seek to ensure that all data and biological samples that we receive have been collected from patients, subjects or participants who have provided the necessary informed consent for purposes that extend to our development activities. In many instances, our ability to obtain these consents requires the physician or hospital system ordering the diagnostic system to obtain the consent of the patient and to attest that they have done so on our requisition forms. We also have certain relationships where data and samples, and certain data licensed to us by third parties, are provided to us in a de-identified manner. The collection and analysis of data and samples in many different jurisdictions results in complex legal questions regarding the adequacy of informed consent and the status of genetic material. Therefore, with respect to data and samples received from our customers, we rely on physicians and hospital systems to comply, and with regard to data received from our suppliers, we rely on these third parties to comply, with the informed consent requirements and with applicable local law regarding informed consent. The subjects informed consent obtained in any particular jurisdiction could be challenged in the future, and that consent could prove invalid, unlawful or otherwise inadequate for our purposes. Any findings against us, or our customers or suppliers, could deny us access to or force us to stop using some of our data and clinical samples, which would hinder our product development efforts, potentially involve us in costly and prolonged litigation, result in reputational harm and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to fines, penalties, licensure requirements, or legal liability, if it is determined that through our test reports we are practicing medicine without a license. Many of our test reports delivered to physicians provide information regarding therapies and clinical trials that physicians may use in making treatment decisions for their patients and certain other reports provide pharmacogenomic information. We make members of our organization available to discuss the information provided in the reports. Certain state laws prohibit the practice of medicine without a license. Our customer service representatives and medical affairs team provide support to our customers, including assistance in interpreting the test report results. A governmental authority or other parties could allege that the identification of available therapies and clinical trials in our reports and the related customer service we provide constitute the practice of medicine. A state may seek to have us discontinue the inclusion of certain aspects of our test reports or the related services we provide, or subject us to fines, penalties, or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are practicing medicine without a license may result in significant liability to us, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Our billing and claim processing are complex and time-consuming, and any delay in submitting claims or failure to comply with applicable billing requirements could hinder collection and have an adverse effect on our revenue. Billing for our diagnostic tests is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid, health plans, insurance companies, hospital systems, providers, and patients, all of which may have different billing requirements. Several factors make the billing process complex, including: differences between the list prices for our test, the reimbursement rates of payers, the amounts we charge healthcare institutions directly, and the cost to patients who pay for our tests out-of-pocket; compliance with complex federal, state and foreign regulations related to billing government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid or comparable foreign programs, to the extent our tests are covered by such programs; differences in coverage among payers and the effect of patient co-payments or co-insurance; differences in information, pre-authorization and other billing requirements among payers; changes to codes and coding instructions governing our tests; incorrect or missing billing information; and the resources required to manage the billing and claim appeals process. These billing complexities and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests could negatively affect our revenue and cash flow, our ability to achieve profitability and the consistency and comparability of our results of operations. In addition, if claims for our tests are not submitted to payers on a timely basis, or if we fail to comply with applicable billing requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 88 In addition, the coding procedure used by third-party payers to identify various procedures, including our tests, during the billing process is complex, does not adapt well to our tests and may not enable coverage and adequate reimbursement rates. Third-party payers usually require us to identify the test for which we are seeking reimbursement using a CPT code. CPT coding plays a significant role in how our diagnostic tests are reimbursed both from commercial and governmental payers. For example, historically, no CPT code comprehensively describes our NGS oncology tests. In the past, we submitted claims using individual codes or combinations of codes based on the cancer subtype profiled. Over time, in response to guidance from payers and our local MAC, we transitioned from using individual gene codes, or combinations of individual gene codes, to using panel CPT codes. With the introduction of new codes that are potentially applicable to comprehensive genomic profiling tests like the ones we offer, we are in the process of updating our approach again. Despite our diligence in developing a comprehensive billing strategy that accurately describes the tests we provide, payers, such as the Local MACs, have in the past and may in the future disagree with our CPT code selection and instruct us to submit our claims using a different designated CPT code. Any disputes over appropriate coding, or requirements that we submit claims under codes with lower reimbursement rates, may materially adversely affect our business financial condition and results of operations,Use of coding for billing our products that does not describe a specific test, requires the claim to be examined to determine what test was provided, whether the test was appropriate and medically necessary, and whether payment should be rendered, which may require a letter of medical necessity from the ordering physician. This process has in the past and may in the future result in a delay in processing the claim, a lower reimbursement amount or denial of the claim. For example, we continue to appeal the denials of certain of our NGS oncology tests by the Local MAC. Because billing third-party payers for our tests is an unpredictable, challenging, time-consuming and costly process, we may face long collection cycles and the risk that we may never collect at all, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may have to increase collection efforts and incur additional costs. Because next generation genomic sequencing is a rapidly evolving area of medicine, and because clinical treatment guidelines continue to develop, any changes to, or interpretations of, applicable billing and coding guidance, rules, policies, and procedures may impact our business. Tempus offers multiple diagnostic tests, which enable ordering healthcare providers to sequence both a cancer patients tissue and blood. Healthcare providers may order multiple tests, either concurrently or longitudinally, even when those distinct tests cover similar genes. Similarly, when a treating healthcare provider orders our tissue-based test, we can provide, and historically have provided when available, distinct test results for DNA and RNA. Effective January 1, 2023, we began billing these tests under separate codes based on American Medical Association guidance and the National Correct Coding Initiative Manual Provider instructions. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 50% of the liquid biopsy tests we provide are ordered in proximity to a solid tissue-based test, and over 85% of our solid tissue-based tests include both RNA and DNA results. In each case, while the ordering physician attests to each distinct tests medical necessity, there is no guarantee that our retrospective or prospective billing practices will not be challenged or reversed, such as by a demand for repayment, recoupment, or prospective billing policies. Any such attempts could adversely affect our results and operations. Changes in healthcare laws, regulations and policies could increase our costs, decrease our sales and revenue and negatively impact reimbursement for our tests. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the ACA, became law. This law substantially changed the way health care is financed by both commercial payers and government payers, and significantly impacted our industry. Since its enactment, there have been efforts to repeal, replace, and amend all or part of the ACA. For example, on August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, or IRA, was signed into law, which among other things extends enhanced subsidies for individuals purchasing health insurance coverage in the ACA marketplaces through plan year 2025. The IRA also eliminates the donut hole under the Medicare Part D program beginning in 2025 by significantly lowering the beneficiary maximum out-of-pocket cost and establishing a new manufacturer discount program. It is unclear how any additional healthcare reform measures of the Biden administration will impact the ACA and our business. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was signed into law, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to providers by 2% per fiscal year, effective on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2032. 89 We anticipate there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, particularly in light of the recent U.S. Presidential and Congressional elections, regulators and commercial and government payers to reduce healthcare costs while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose additional limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our tests, the coverage of, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our tests from commercial and government payers. We face risks related to handling of hazardous materials and other regulations governing environmental safety. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent environmental, health, safety and other governmental laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Our activities that are subject to these regulations include, among other things, our use of hazardous materials in manufacturing and in our products, and the generation, transportation and storage of waste. We could discover that we or our suppliers are not in material compliance with these regulations. Existing laws and regulations may also be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us, whether retroactively or prospectively, that may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is also impossible to eliminate completely the risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury to individuals. In such an event, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. We are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making payments in violation of law to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage, as a result of our international operations. We are also subject to similar anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United Kingdoms Bribery Act of 2010, which also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for companies to fail to prevent bribery. These laws are complex and far-reaching in nature, and, as a result, we cannot assure that we would not be required in the future to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws or any changes in these laws or the interpretation thereof. Any violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction, cause us to incur significant costs and expenses, including legal fees, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce sufficient intellectual property protection for our Platform and products, or if the scope of the intellectual property protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors or other third parties could develop and commercialize products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our products may be impaired. We rely on patent protection as well as trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights protection and contractual restrictions to protect our Platform, products and other proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us. In addition, we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial litigation costs in our attempts to recover or restrict use of our intellectual property. To the extent our intellectual property offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid or unenforceable, we would be exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate coverage of our competitors products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business, financial condition and results of operations. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time-consuming and expensive. Our pending and future owned and licensed patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology, effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies or otherwise provide any competitive advantage. In fact, patent applications may not issue as patents at all. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance. As is the case with other biotechnology companies, our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection of the intellectual property we own solely and may own jointly with others or we have licensed and may continue to license from others, particularly patents, in the United States and other countries with respect to our products and technologies. We apply for patents covering our products and technologies and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate. However, obtaining and enforcing patents, and specifically biotechnology patents, is costly, time-consuming and complex, 90 and we may fail to apply for patents on important products, services and technologies in a timely fashion or at all, or we may fail to apply for patents in potentially relevant jurisdictions. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent applications and patents due to the subject matter claimed in such patent applications and patents being in disclosures in the public domain. In some cases, the inventions we attempt to patent may have been previously discovered by others and entered the public domain, which may preclude our ability to obtain patent protection for such inventions. We may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications, or maintain, enforce and license any patents that may issue from such patent applications, at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Although we enter into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to confidential or patentable aspects of our research and development output, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties, any of these parties may breach these agreements and disclose such output before a patent application is filed, thereby jeopardizing our ability to seek patent protection. Moreover, we may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the rights to patents licensed to us. Therefore, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. We own or license numerous U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications, with international counterparts in certain countries. It is possible that our or our licensors pending patent applications will not result in issued patents in a timely fashion or at all, and even if patents are granted, they may not provide a basis for intellectual property protection of commercially viable products or services, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties. It is possible that others will design around our current or future patented technologies to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or therapeutics in a non-infringing manner. If the patent protection provided by the patents and patent applications we own or license is not sufficiently broad to impede such competition, our ability to successfully commercialize our products could be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our patent rights may be challenged in the future, including at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, in post-grant proceedings, at the European Patent Office, or EPO, in opposition proceedings. We may not be successful in defending any such challenges made against our owned or licensed patents or patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to such patent rights could result in their unenforceability or invalidity and increased competition to our business. We have challenged and may choose to challenge the patents or patent applications of third parties. The outcome of patent litigation or other proceeding can be uncertain, and any attempt by us to enforce our patent rights against others or to challenge the patent rights of others may not be successful, or, if successful, may take substantial time and result in substantial cost, and may divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of any patent rights are highly uncertain. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies patents has emerged to date in the United States or elsewhere. Courts frequently render opinions in the biotechnology field that may affect the patentability of certain inventions or discoveries, including opinions that may affect the patentability of methods for analyzing or comparing DNA sequences. In particular, the patent positions of companies engaged in the development and commercialization of genomic and algorithmic diagnostic tests, like our current products and services, and our future products, are particularly uncertain. Various courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have rendered decisions that affect the scope of patentability of certain inventions or discoveries relating to certain diagnostic tests and related methods. These decisions state, among other things, that a patent claim that recites an abstract idea, natural phenomenon or law of nature (for example, the relationship between particular genetic variants and cancer) are not themselves patentable. Precisely what constitutes an abstract idea, natural phenomenon or law of nature is uncertain, and it is possible that certain aspects of genetic or algorithmic diagnostics tests would be found not patentable. Accordingly, the evolving legal and administrative standards around the world, including in the United States may adversely affect our ability to obtain patents and may facilitate third-party challenges to any owned or licensed patents. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of many foreign jurisdictions do not favor the enforcement of patent rights and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patent rights and other violations of our intellectual property rights thereunder. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights and other intellectual property protection in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. 91 Changes in patent law in the United States and other jurisdictions could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our Platform and products. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries or regions may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. We may not develop additional proprietary products, methods and technologies that are patentable. Assuming that other requirements for patentability are met, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to invent the claimed invention was entitled to the patent, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application was entitled to the patent. On or after March 16, 2013, under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, enacted in September 16, 2011, the United States transitioned to a first inventor to file system in which, assuming that other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether a third party was the first to invent the claimed invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO on or after March 16, 2013, but before us could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by such third party. This will require us to be cognizant of the time from invention to filing of a patent application. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing or until issuance, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to either (i) file any patent application related to our products or (ii) invent any of the inventions claimed in our or our licensors patents or patent applications. The America Invents Act also includes a number of significant changes that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and also affect patent litigation. These include allowing third-party submission of prior art to the USPTO during patent prosecution and additional procedures to challenge the validity of a patent by USPTO administered post-grant proceedings, including post-grant review, inter partes review and derivation proceedings, to attack the validity of a patent. Because of a lower evidentiary standard in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in United States federal courts necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence might not be sufficient to invalidate the claim if presented in a district court action. Accordingly, third parties have used and may continue to use the USPTO proceedings to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party in a district court action. Therefore, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding our or our licensors prosecution of patent applications and enforcement or defense of issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The patent positions of companies engaged in the development and commercialization of biotechnology and software are particularly uncertain. Court rulings may narrow the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances and weaken the rights of patent owners in certain situations. We cannot predict how decisions by the courts, the U.S. Congress or the USPTO may impact the value of our patents. Any similar adverse changes in the patent laws of other jurisdictions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depending on future actions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could have a material adverse effect on our existing patent portfolio and our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property in the future. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Issued patents covering our Platform or products could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged. Our owned and licensed patents and patent applications may be subject to priority, validity, inventorship and enforceability disputes. If we or our licensors are unsuccessful in any of these proceedings, such patents and patent applications may be narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable and we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or we may be required to cease the development, manufacture and commercialization the products we may develop. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Some of our owned or licensed patent rights may be challenged at a future point in time in opposition, derivation, re-examination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings and other similar proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. Any successful third-party challenge to our patent rights in this or any other proceeding could result in the narrowing, unenforceability or invalidity, in whole or in part, of such patent rights, which may lead to increased competition to our business, which could harm our 92 business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, regardless of the outcome, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize our current or future products. We may not be aware of all third-party intellectual property rights potentially relating to our Platform and products. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until approximately 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not until such patent applications issue as patents. We might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. To determine the priority of these inventions, we may participate in interference proceedings, derivation proceedings or other post-grant proceedings declared by the USPTO that could result in substantial cost to us. The outcome of such proceedings is uncertain. No assurance can be given that other patent applications will not have priority over our patent applications. In addition, changes to the patent laws of the United States allow for various post-grant opposition proceedings that have not been extensively tested, and their outcome is therefore uncertain. Our licensors may also license patent rights to others, and we may not be aware of such licenses before they are granted or such licenses may be subject to disputes or uncertainties that affect patent rights licensed by us or could limit our ability to enforce such patent rights. If third parties bring actions against our owned or licensed patent rights, we could experience significant costs and management distraction. In patent litigation in the United States or abroad, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness, written description, non-enablement or failure to claim patent-eligible subject matter. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could include an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO or made a misleading statement during prosecution. Similar claims may also be raised before administrative bodies in the United States or abroad, even outside the context of litigation, through mechanisms including re-examination, post-grant review and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (e.g., opposition proceedings). Such proceedings could result in revocation or amendment to our patent rights in such a way that they no longer cover our Platform and products. The outcome of patent litigation or patent office proceedings following assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and our licensing partners and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a third party were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our Platform and products. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our licensors may initiate or become involved in legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our Platform or one of our products. Defendants in such proceedings could counterclaim that the patents covering our Platform or product are invalid or unenforceable and could institute legal proceedings to challenge such patents both in court and before patent offices. The intellectual property landscape in the next generation sequencing, generative AI, and other fields in which we operate continues to evolve in ways that may impact our business. For example, we are aware of patent litigation involving certain disciplines in which we operate, such as liquid biopsy sequencing methods and minimal residual disease testing methods. Many of our competitors are or have been party to these suits, including Guardant Health, Inc., or Guardant, Haystack Oncology, Inc., Invitae Corp., Illumina, Inc., Natera, Inc., NeoGenomics Laboratories, Inc., Personalis, Inc., TwinStrand Biosciences, Inc., and others, and, as a result, we have monitored and continue to monitor their developments and their potential impact on us. In addition, on June 11, 2024, Guardant filed a complaint for patent infringement against us alleging that the Tempus xF, Tempus xF+, Tempus xM Monitor and Tempus xM MRD products use liquid biopsy technology that infringes five Guardant U.S. patents. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages (including enhanced damages), a future mandatory royalty, costs and attorneys fees. Given the uncertainty of outcomes of patent litigation disputes, we have not determined whether our products and services could be subject to potential additional claims of patent infringement based on the patents at issue in these or other cases, whether we may need to modify or change any existing or planned sequencing procedures, or whether any of the patents at issue are valid or enforceable against us. However, it is possible that we will be subject to additional claims of patent infringement and that we may need to either modify our existing or future sequencing methods or license intellectual property from third parties, both of which could be time consuming and expensive. From time to time we may receive notifications from third parties purportedly asserting certain intellectual property rights with respect to our products and services. For example, on September 21, 2023, SEngine Precision Medicine LLC (including its predecessor corporation SEngine Precision Medicine, Inc.), or SEngine, a company we acquired on October 3, 2023, received a letter from an attorney representing HUB Organoids IP B.V., or HUB Organoids, which states that SEngines PARIS test methodologies appear to share similarities with methods that the HUB has used in its own organoid 93 work. Similarly, on January 30, 2024, we received a letter from an attorney representing Molecular Loop Biosciences, Inc., which states that [a]fter reviewing specific products made, used or sold by Tempus, Molecular Loop believes that Tempus requires a license to several of the patents in Molecular Loops patent portfolio. Ambry Genetics has also received a letter from Molecular Loop. While the letter received on behalf of HUB Organoids contains no specific allegations that SEngine infringes certain patents controlled by HUB Organoids referenced in the letter, and while the letters received on behalf of Molecular Loop contains only generalized allegations that Tempus and Ambry Genetics may infringe certain patents controlled by Molecular Loop referenced in the letters, and while we have received and may in the future receive letters alleging patent infringement from other third parties, if any claims against us were made by these parties, including any claim that any portion of our products and services infringes any of the referenced patents, or any other patents held by a third party, we would defend against such claims, however, there can be no assurances that any such defense would be successful. Moreover, if we are subject to claims of patent infringement, we may need to modify existing methods governing use of our products and services, or license third party intellectual property, at some point in the future, which may be time consuming and expensive or may not be technically feasible. We rely on licenses from third parties to provide certain products, and if we lose these licenses or if our rights under these licenses are limited, then our business will be adversely impacted. We are, and we may acquire companies that are, party to various license agreements that grant us rights to use certain intellectual property, including de-identified patient data, AI software, and certain patents and patent applications, typically in certain specified fields of use. Such license agreements impose, and future agreements may impose, various obligations, such as diligence, development, payment, royalty, sublicensing and other obligations on us in order to maintain the licenses. We may need to obtain additional licenses from others to advance our research, development and commercialization activities. Our future licenses may not provide us with exclusive rights to use the licensed intellectual property and technology, or may not provide us with exclusive rights to use such intellectual property and technology in all relevant fields of use and in all territories in which we may wish to develop or commercialize our technology in the future. As a result, we may not be able to prevent competitors or other third parties from developing and commercializing competitive products, including in territories covered by our licenses. If these licenses are terminated, or if the underlying intellectual property rights fail to provide the intended rights and protections, our ability to develop and commercialize products and technology covered by these license agreements would be limited or lost, and our competitors or other third parties might have the freedom to develop, produce, seek regulatory approval or certification of, or to market, products identical or similar to ours and we may be required to cease our development and commercialization activities. Our actual or potential licensors could also take action with respect to our licensed intellectual property that may decrease the value of such licensed intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, disputes could arise with respect to any aspect of our license agreements, including: the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues; our financial or other obligations under the license agreement; the extent to which our Platform, products, and processes infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate the intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement; the licensing of patent and other rights controlled by our licensors or developed under our collaborative development relationships to others; the sublicensing of patent and other rights; the inventorship and ownership of inventions and know-how licensed to us or resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors, us and/or our partners; and the validity, enforceability or priority of licensed patent rights. If we do not prevail in such disputes, we may lose any of such license agreements, the license agreements may not be meaningful for our business and operations, and we may be subject to unnecessary or additional payment obligations. In addition, the agreements under which we currently license intellectual property or technology from third parties are complex, and certain provisions in such agreements could be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any such contract interpretation disagreement could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the relevant agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 94 Moreover, if disputes over licensed intellectual property impair our ability to enforce licensed intellectual property against third parties or use it to defend ourselves in litigation, the value of such licensed intellectual property may be diminished. Additionally, our licenses may be subject to certain rights of third parties, and, as a result, our current and future licenses may not provide us with exclusive rights to use the licensed intellectual property and technology. Such licenses may be subject to reservations of rights including certain non-commercial rights reserved by universities and certain rights retained by the U.S. government, including march-in rights. Patents licensed to us could be put at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly in litigation filed by or against our licensors or another licensee or in administrative proceedings brought by or against our licensors or another licensee in response to such litigation or for other reasons. As a result, we may not be able to prevent competitors or other third parties from developing and commercializing competitive products, including in territories covered by our licenses. If we fail to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these license agreements is terminated, if the licensor fails to abide by the terms of the license agreement, if the licensor fails to prevent infringement, misappropriation, or other violations by third parties, or if the licensed patent or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, we may lose our rights to develop and market our technology, may be unable to achieve our business goals and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may seek to obtain additional licenses from our licensors and, in connection with obtaining such licenses, we may agree to amend our existing licenses in a manner that may be more favorable to the licensors, including by agreeing to terms that could enable third parties, including our competitors, to receive licenses to a portion of the intellectual property that is subject to our existing licenses and to compete with our products. Absent the license agreements, we could infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate patents or other intellectual property rights subject to those agreements, and if the license agreements are terminated, we may be subject to litigation by the licensor. Litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we do not prevail, we may be required to pay damages, including treble damages, attorneys fees, costs and expenses, royalties or, be enjoined from selling our products and services, including our tests, which could adversely affect our ability to offer products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot license and maintain rights to use third-party intellectual property on reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. Our licensed or acquired technology may lose value or utility over time. From time to time, we may identify third-party intellectual property we may need, including to develop or commercialize new products. We may also need to negotiate licenses before or after introducing a commercial product, and we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses to such intellectual property. The licensing or acquisition of third party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. We also may be unable to license or acquire third party intellectual property rights on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on our investment or at all. If we are unable to enter into the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, if any necessary licenses are subsequently terminated, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the licenses or fail to prevent infringement, misappropriation, or other violations by third parties, or if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, any technology licensed or acquired by us may lose value or utility, including as a result of a change in the industry, in our business objectives, others technology, our dispute with the licensor, and other circumstances outside our control. In return for the use of a third partys technology, we may agree to pay the licensor royalties based on sales of our products or services. Royalties are a component of the cost of products and affect the margins on our products. If we are unable to negotiate reasonable royalties or if we have to pay royalties on technology that becomes less useful for us or ceases to provide value to us, our profit margin will be reduced and we may suffer losses. We may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights adequately throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents and trademarks on our Platform and products in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some territories outside the United States are less extensive than those in the United States. In some cases, we or our licensors may not be able to obtain patent or trademark protection for certain technology outside of the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries and regions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the federal and state laws in the United States, and we 95 may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions where we do pursue patent or trademark protection. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all jurisdictions, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our inventions in jurisdictions where we have not pursued and obtained patent protection to develop their own products and may also export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products. Our patents or other intellectual property rights existing outside the United States may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. Similarly, intellectual property rights may be exhausted in certain situations, and others could import our products sold abroad and compete with us domestically. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries and regions, and particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology products, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement, misappropriation or other violations of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property, or marketing of competing products in violation of our intellectual property rights generally in such jurisdictions. Proceedings to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents or other intellectual property at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded to us, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage. Many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of such patent. If we or any of our licensors is forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, the value of our Platform and other technology could be materially adversely affected and our business could be harmed. In addition to pursuing patents on our Platform and other technology, we take steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary know-how and technology that is not patentable or that we elect not to patent, including certain of our algorithms and software. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how and technology by entering into agreements, including confidentiality agreements, non-disclosure agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements, with our employees, consultants, academic institutions, corporate partners and, when needed, our advisers. However, we cannot be certain that such agreements have been entered into with all relevant parties, and we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors or other third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. For example, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized use or disclosure. If we are required to assert our rights against such party, it could result in significant cost and distraction. Monitoring unauthorized use or disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such use or disclosure are, or will be, adequate. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, trade secrets can be difficult to protect and some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our proprietary information by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems, but it is possible that these security measures could be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. If any of our confidential proprietary information were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, absent patent protection, we would have no right to prevent such competitor from using that technology or information to compete with us, which could harm our competitive position. 96 We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties or that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed trade secrets of their former employers. We have employed or engaged and expect to employ or engage individuals who were previously employed at or associated with universities or other companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants and independent contractors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we have in the past been, and may again in the future be, subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or other third parties, or to claims that we have improperly used or obtained such trade secrets. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we lose, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may be deprived of valuable intellectual property and face increased competition. A loss of key research personnel or work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize potential products, which could harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in damage to our reputation and substantial costs and be a distraction to management and affected individuals. We may not be able to protect and enforce our trademarks and we could infringe or otherwise violate others trademarks and if our trademarks are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest. We have not yet registered trademarks in all of our potential markets, although we have registered Tempus and certain diagnostic test names for certain classes of goods and services in the United States. If we apply to register additional trademarks in the United States and other countries, our applications may not be allowed for registration in a timely fashion or at all, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced and our trademarks may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on or otherwise violating another mark. For example, opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademark applications and registrations, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. Such proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming, particularly for a company of our size. If we do not timely register and enforce marks used in connection with our Platform or products, we may encounter difficulty in enforcing them against third parties, and if these marks are registered by others, we could infringe or otherwise violate such trademarks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks, which we need to build name recognition among potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. At times, competitors or other third parties may adopt trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trademark infringement or other violation claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights related to trademarks may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our owned or licensed intellectual property or claims asserting ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. While it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Moreover, even when we obtain agreements assigning intellectual property to us, the assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Furthermore, individuals executing agreements with us may have preexisting or competing obligations to a third party, such as an academic institution, and thus an agreement with us may be ineffective in perfecting ownership of inventions developed by that individual. Disputes about the ownership of intellectual property that we may own may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, former employees may refuse to assign certain intellectual property rights to us, even though we have agreements requiring them to do so. Our ability to enforce our contractual rights may require us to seek legal action, which could be costly and time-intensive. We or our licensors may be subject to claims that former employees, collaborators or other third parties have an interest in or right to our owned or licensed patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property. For example, we or our licensors may have inventorship disputes arise from conflicting obligations of employees, consultants or others who are involved in 97 developing such intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging inventorship or ownership of our owned or licensed patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property. If we or our licensors fail in defending against any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose exclusive ownership of, or right to use, valuable intellectual property. An inability to incorporate such technologies or features would harm our business and may prevent us from successfully commercializing our products or at all. In addition, we may lose personnel as a result of such claims and any such litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire employees or contract with independent contractors. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our products. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in damage to our reputation and substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are and may in the future become involved in litigation and other legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights, or asserting our intellectual property rights, which could be time-intensive and costly and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are and may become involved with litigation or USPTO actions with various third parties. For example, on June 11, 2024, Guardant filed a complaint for patent infringement against us alleging that the Tempus xF, Tempus xF+, Tempus xM Monitor and Tempus xM MRD products use liquid biopsy technology that infringes five Guardant U.S. patents. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages (including enhanced damages), a future mandatory royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We expect that the number of such types of claims may increase as the number of our products grows, and the level of competition in our industry segments increases. Given the vast number of patents in our field of technology, we cannot be certain or guarantee that we do not infringe existing patents or that we will not infringe patents that may be granted in the future. Many companies and institutions have filed, and continue to file, patent applications related to the development and commercialization of genomic and algorithmic diagnostic tests. Some of these patent applications have already been allowed or issued and others may issue in the future. Since this area is competitive and of strong interest to biotechnology companies, there will likely be additional patent applications filed and additional patents granted in the future, as well as additional research and development programs expected in the future. If a patent holder believes the manufacture, use, sale or importation of our products infringe its patent, the patent holder may sue us even if we own or have licensed other patent protection for our technology. The biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive and complex litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Moreover, we face and expect to continue to face allegations of patent infringement, and we may face claims regarding such allegations, from nonpracticing entities that have no relevant product revenue and against whom our owned or licensed patent portfolio may therefore have no deterrent effect. Any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could harm our business by, among other things, resulting in time-consuming and costly litigation, diverting managements time and attention from the development of our business, or requiring the payment of monetary damages (including treble damages, attorneys fees, costs and expenses if we are found to have willfully infringed) and ongoing royalties. Litigation may be necessary for us to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights or to determine the scope, coverage and validity of the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. The outcome of such lawsuits, as well as any other litigation or proceeding, is inherently uncertain and might not be favorable to us. Further, we could encounter delays in product introductions, or interruptions in the sale of products, as we develop alternative products. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity, scope and coverage of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. If we do not prevail in such legal proceedings, we may be required to pay damages, and we may lose significant intellectual property protection for our products, such that competitors could copy our products. Any litigation that may be necessary in the future could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we move into new markets and applications for our Platform or products, incumbent participants in such markets may assert their patents and other intellectual property or proprietary rights against us as a means of slowing our entry into such markets or as a means to extract substantial license and royalty payments from us. As our business matures and our public profile grows, we may also be subject to an increased number of allegations of patent infringement, whether by our competitors or other patent owners, both in the United States and throughout the world wherever we seek to commercialize our products. Our competitors and others may have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. In addition, while we can assert our own patents or other rights during litigation, our own patents may provide little or no deterrence or protection against patent holding companies or other patent owners who have no relevant product or service revenue. Therefore, our commercial success may depend in part on our non-infringement of the patents or other rights of third parties and on our success in defending ourselves in litigation. 98 However, our research, development and commercialization activities may be subject to claims that we infringe or otherwise violate patents or other intellectual property rights owned or controlled by third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation and other patent challenges, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology industry, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and inter partes review proceedings before the USPTO, and corresponding proceedings before foreign patent offices. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing products. As the intelligent medicine and healthcare data analytics industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our Platform or products may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties. Numerous significant intellectual property issues have been litigated, are being litigated and will likely continue to be litigated, between existing and new participants in our existing and targeted markets, and our competitors have asserted and may in the future assert that our Platform or products infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into or growth in those markets, and we may enforce our owned or licensed intellectual property rights against our competitors and other parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their patents, proprietary technology or trade secrets without authorization. By interacting with us, our licensors may learn more about our business or technology and could assert additional patent rights against us, such as patent rights that are not currently licensed to us or patent rights that may be obtained by any such licensors in the future, which may occur if such patent rights are not available for licensing or if they are not offered on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and are not publicly available until a certain period of time passes from filing, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that our current or future products and services may infringe. In addition, similar to what other companies in our industry have experienced, we expect our competitors and others may develop or obtain patents with our Platform or products in mind and claim that making, having made, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our products infringes these patents. Patent and other types of intellectual property litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and their outcome is uncertain. Even if we believe such claims are without merit, a court of competent jurisdiction could hold that these third-party patents are valid, enforceable and infringed, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technology. In order to successfully challenge the validity of any such U.S. patent in federal court, we would need to overcome a presumption of validity. As this burden is a high one requiring us to present clear and convincing evidence as to the invalidity of any such U.S. patent claim, there can be no assurance that a court of competent jurisdiction would invalidate the claims of any such U.S. patent or find that our technology did not infringe any such claims. Further, even if we were successful in defending against any such claims, such claims could require us to incur substantial costs and divert financial resources and the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending against any of these claims. Parties making claims against us may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can, for example, because they have substantially greater resources. If any third-party patent were to be asserted against us, there can be no assurance that any defenses will be successful. If our defenses to such assertion were unsuccessful, the third-party making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, including by court order, which could block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell certain products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us, including treble damages, attorneys fees, costs and expenses if we are found to have willfully infringed. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and ongoing royalties, and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. Further, we may be required to redesign our technology in a non-infringing manner which may not be commercially feasible. We could also be required or may choose to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing, manufacturing and marketing our technology. However, we may not be able to obtain these licenses on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or these licenses may be non-exclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative products to avoid infringing third-party patents or otherwise violating proprietary rights. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our business and our ability to gain market acceptance for our products. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our scientific and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions 99 or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. In addition, our agreements with some of our customers, suppliers or other entities with whom we do business require us to defend or indemnify these parties to the extent they become involved in infringement claims, including the types of claims described above. We could also voluntarily agree to defend or indemnify third parties in instances where we are not obligated to do so if we determine it would be important to our business relationships. If we are required or agree to defend or indemnify third parties in connection with any infringement claims, we could incur significant costs and expenses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Obtaining and maintaining our patent and trademark protection depends on compliance with various required procedures, document submissions, fee payments and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other governmental fees on patents and/or applications and trademarks and trademark applications will be due to be paid to the USPTO and various governmental patent agencies outside of the United States at several stages over the lifetime of the patents and/or applications and trademarks and trademark applications. We have systems in place to remind us to pay these fees, and we rely on our outside counsel to pay these fees due to U.S. and non-U.S. patent and trademark agencies. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent and trademark agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar requirements during the patent and trademark application processes. In many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. However, there are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or forfeiture of the patent or patent application or trademark or trademark application and thus the partial or complete loss of patent or trademark rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Such an event would allow our competitors to enter the unprotected market and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent terms may be inadequate to protect our competitive position for an adequate amount of time. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, if all maintenance fees are timely paid, the natural expiration of a patent is generally 20 years from its earliest U.S. non-provisional filing date. Various extensions may be available, but the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Even if patents covering our Platform or products are obtained, once the patent life has expired, we may be open to competition. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of our new products, patents protecting them might expire before or shortly after they are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with a sufficient exclusivity period to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. For example: others may be able to make products that are similar to ours, but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we license or may own in the future; we, or our license partners or future collaborators, might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by the issued patent or pending patent applications that we license or may own in the future; we, or our license partners or future collaborators, might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our or their inventions; others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our owned or licensed intellectual property rights; it is possible that our pending licensed patent applications or those that we may own in the future will not lead to issued patents; 100 issued patents that we hold rights to now or in the future may be held invalid or unenforceable, including as a result of legal challenges by our competitors; others may have access to the same intellectual property rights licensed to us in the future on a nonexclusive basis; our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets; we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; the patents or other intellectual property rights of others may have an adverse effect on our business; or we may choose not to file a patent for certain trade secrets or know-how, and a third party may subsequently file a patent covering such intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products contain third-party open source software components and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products or may require us to publicly disclose our proprietary software. Our products contain software tools licensed by third parties under open source software licenses. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source software licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement or other violation claims or the quality of the code. Some open source software licenses contain requirements that the licensee make its source code publicly available if the licensee creates modifications or derivative works using the open source software or provide software services at no cost to the user, depending on the type of open source software the licensee uses and how the licensee uses it. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source software licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public for free. This would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales and revenue. In addition, some companies that use third-party open source software have faced claims challenging their use of such open source software, seeking enforcement of open source license provisions, asserting ownership of open source software incorporated in products and demanding compliance with the terms of the applicable open source license. We may be subject to suits by third parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming non-compliance with the applicable open source licensing terms. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of such software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to compromise or attempt to compromise our Platform and systems. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of an open source license, we could incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations. In the event such claims were successful, we could be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our products. There is little legal precedent and the terms of many open source software licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Moreover, we cannot assure investors that our processes for monitoring and controlling our use of open source software in our products will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our product, to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent we use open source technologies or licensed third-party technologies in our AI Applications product line, those products may be subject to similar concerns or even unanticipated or unknown risks given the nascency of the industry and the types of products we intend to develop and deploy. For example, developers of open source technologies and third-party licensors may not adhere to the same or similar standards that we adhere to in the development, validation, training and maintenance of AI models. To the extent such third parties standards fall below a certain level and go undetected during our diligence and evaluation of such technologies, our business could suffer unintended consequences, including a detrimental impact on the patients we serve or the introduction of malware or other information security vulnerabilities into our network architecture. 101 The legislative, judicial and regulatory landscapes relating to AI are evolving and may impact our ability to use AI, and could limit our ability to operate and expand our business, cause revenue to decline and adversely affect our business. Uncertainty in the legal regulatory regime relating to AI may require significant resources to modify and maintain business practices to comply with U.S. and non-U.S. laws, the nature of which cannot be determined at this time. Several jurisdictions around the globe, including Europe and certain U.S. states, have already proposed or enacted laws governing AI. For example, on May 17, 2024, Colorado became the first state in the United States to pass a law that requires developers of high-risk AI systems to avoid algorithmic discrimination involving certain AI decisions and to extensively document how the high-risk AI system was evaluated for performance and mitigation of algorithmic discrimination. The law also requires documentation of data governance measures used with the training data sets, the intended outputs of the high-risk AI system, how the AI system should and should not be used, and other aspects of the system. The law could require us to significantly alter our use of AI or how we train our algorithms, which could lead to increased costs. The law does not go into effect until February 1, 2026. Further, on July 12, 2024, the AI Act was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and will follow a phased implementation process with the bulk of its requirements becoming applicable from August 2, 2026 (including the core of the requirements relevant to the high-risk systems referred to below). The AI Act will establish, among other things, a risk-based governance framework for regulating AI systems in the EU. This framework would categorize AI systems, based largely on the risks associated with such AI systems intended purposes or their capabilities, for example, prohibiting certain unacceptable AI practices, classifying certain AI systems as high-risk systems that must meet stringent compliance requirements (including various transparency, conformity and risk assessment, monitoring, and human oversight requirements), introducing specific compliance obligations for certain general-purpose AI systems (more commonly known as foundation models) with all other AI systems being considered either limited risk (requiring primarily adherence to certain transparency requirements) or low risk. There is a risk that our use of AI may obligate us to comply with the applicable requirements of the AI Act, which may impose additional costs on us, increase our risk of liability or adversely affect our business. Other jurisdictions may decide to adopt similar or more restrictive legislation that may render the use of such technologies challenging. We may not be able to adequately anticipate or respond to these evolving laws and regulations, and we may need to expend additional resources to adjust our offerings in certain jurisdictions if applicable legal frameworks are inconsistent across jurisdictions. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The dual class structure of our common stock will have the effect of concentrating voting control with our Chief Executive Officer, Founder and Chairman, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important decisions. Our Class B common stock has 30 votes per share and our Class A common stock, has one vote per share. As of February 21, 2025, our Chief Executive Officer, Founder, and Chairman, Eric Lefkofsky, who, collectively with his controlled entities, holds all our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 62.4% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Mr. Lefkofsky has the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, other sale of our company or our assets or significant acquisitions, even if his stock ownership represents less than 50% of the outstanding aggregate number of shares of our capital stock. This concentration of voting control limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may cause us to make strategic decisions that could involve risks to you or that may not be aligned with your interests. In addition, Mr. Lefkofsky serves as an observer on our nominating and corporate governance committee, and accordingly, may have substantial influence over the individuals nominated to serve as directors. As a board member, Mr. Lefkofsky owes a fiduciary duty to our stockholders and is legally obligated to act in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a stockholder, Mr. Lefkofsky is entitled to vote his shares in his own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. Mr. Lefkofskys control may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We have not elected to take advantage of the controlled company exemption to the corporate governance rules for publicly listed companies but may do so in the future. Because our Chief Executive Officer, Founder, and Chairman, Eric Lefkofsky, who, collectively with his controlled entities, holds all our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, beneficially owns shares representing in excess of 50% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, we are eligible to elect the controlled company exemption to the 102 corporate governance rules for publicly listed companies. We have not elected to do so. If we decide to become a controlled company under the corporate governance rules for publicly listed companies, we would not be required to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, nor would we be required to have a compensation committee or an independent nominating function. If we choose controlled company status in the future, our status as a controlled company could cause our Class A common stock to be less attractive to certain investors or otherwise harm our trading price. We cannot predict the impact our dual class structure may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. We cannot predict whether our dual class structure, combined with the concentrated control of our Chief Executive Officer, Founder and Chairman, who beneficially owns all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, will result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class A common stock or in adverse publicity or other adverse consequences. Certain index providers have announced restrictions on including companies with multiple-class share structures in certain of their indexes. For example, in July 2017, FTSE Russell and Standard & Poors announced that they would cease to allow most newly public companies utilizing dual or multi-class capital structures to be included in their indices. Under the announced policies, our dual class capital structure would make us ineligible for inclusion in any of these indices. Given the sustained flow of investment funds into passive strategies that seek to track certain indexes, exclusion from stock indexes would likely preclude investment by many of these funds and could make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. An active public trading market for our Class A common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. Prior to the IPO, there was no public market for our Class A common stock. An active public trading market for our Class A common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Many of our existing equity holders have substantial unrecognized gains on the value of the equity they hold based upon the price of our IPO, and therefore they may take steps to sell their shares or otherwise secure the unrecognized gains on those shares. All of the Class A common stock sold in our IPO is freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act, except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 144. In addition, the lockup and market standoff agreements entered into in connection with our IPO expired on December 10, 2024. We are unable to predict the timing of or the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. Sales, short sales, or hedging transactions involving our equity securities, whether or not we believe them to be prohibited, could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock. While we have in the past paid dividends to holders of our convertible preferred stock, we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, you may need to rely on sales of our Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on your investment. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive 103 compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies, which may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. In addition, if we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will no longer be able to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (1) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO; (2) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenue is $1.235 billion or more; (3) the date on which we have, during the previous rolling three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; and (4) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of June 30 of such fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition to the effects of our dual class structure, provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as they are in effect as of the completion of our IPO, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws will include provisions that may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you would receive a premium for your shares of our Class A common stock in an acquisition. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States of America are the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: any derivative claim or cause of action brought on our behalf; any claim or cause of action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any claim or cause of action against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law; any claim or cause of action arising under or seeking to interpret our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; and any claim or cause of action against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The provisions would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such 104 claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will further provide that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause or causes of action arising under the Securities Act, including all causes of action asserted against any defendant to such complaint. For the avoidance of doubt, this provision is intended to benefit and may be enforced by us, our officers and directors, the underwriters to any offering giving rise to such complaint, and any other professional entity whose profession gives authority to a statement made by that person or entity and who has prepared or certified any part of the documents underlying the offering. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions. In such an instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. These exclusive forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, all of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. The market price of our Class A common stock has been highly volatile, ranging from $22.89 to $91.45 per share since our IPO. The price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts; changes in the pricing of our products; our ability to service or pay down existing or future debt obligations; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our Platform and products, including changes in the regulation of data or in the structure of healthcare payment systems; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new products; significant data breaches, disruptions to or other incidents involving our products; our involvement in litigation or governmental investigations; future sales of our Class A common stock by us or our stockholders; changes in senior management or key personnel; the issuance of new or changed securities analysts reports or recommendations; the trading volume of our Class A common stock; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and economic and market conditions in general, or in our industry in particular. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory, and market conditions, may also negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. 105 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, the market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline. The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock following the completion of our IPO is heavily influenced by the way analysts interpret our financial information and other disclosures. We do not have control over these analysts. If few securities analysts commence coverage of us, or if industry analysts cease coverage of us, our stock price would be negatively affected. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, downgrade our Class A common stock, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price to decline and could decrease the trading volume of our Class A common stock. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, which we expect to further increase after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly, such as maintaining directors and officers liability insurance. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the specific timing of such costs, and any such costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. General Risk Factors Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of health pandemics or epidemics. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of health pandemics or epidemics. For example, the COVID-19 global pandemic and the various attempts throughout the world to contain it created significant volatility, uncertainty and disruption. We experienced significant reduction in access to our customers, including restrictions on our ability to market and distribute our tests and to collect samples. Our partners, vendors and customers similarly had their operations altered or temporarily suspended. Due to impacts and measures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced and could again experience unpredictable reductions in the demand for our tests as healthcare customers divert medical resources and priorities toward the treatment of the virus. Our historic results such as revenue, operating margins, cash flows, tests performed, and other financial and operating metrics, may not be indicative of our results for future periods. We cannot assure you that these effects will remain reduced in the future, including due to potential new public health outbreaks. To the extent future public health outbreaks adversely affect our business and financial results, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. We have and may in the future acquire businesses, form joint ventures or make investments in companies or technologies that could negatively affect our operating results, distract managements attention from other business concerns, dilute our stockholders ownership, and significantly increase our debt, costs, expenses, liabilities and risks. We have made acquisitions of businesses, technologies and assets and may pursue additional acquisitions in the future, one or more of which may be substantial. We also may pursue strategic alliances and additional joint ventures that leverage our Platform and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution. We have limited experience with acquisitions, joint ventures and forming strategic partnerships. We compete for those opportunities with others including our competitors, some of which have greater financial or operational resources than we do. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic partners, we may have inadequate access to information or insufficient time to complete due diligence, and we may not be able to complete such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses include redeployment or loss of key employees and their severance, combination of teams and processes in various functional areas, reorganization or closures of 106 facilities, relocation or disposition of excess equipment, and increased litigation, regulatory and compliance risks, any of which could be expensive and time consuming and adversely affect us. Integration of an acquired business also may disrupt our ongoing operations and require management resources that we would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. In addition, any acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may also experience losses related to investments in other companies, which could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license, strategic alliance or joint venture. We evaluate opportunities for transactions of these types from time to time. For example, on May 18, 2024, we entered into the Joint Venture Agreement, or the Joint Venture Agreement, with SoftBank Group Corporation, or SoftBank, to form SB Tempus Corp., the Joint Venture or SB Tempus. The Joint Venture closed on July 18, 2024, at which time we and SoftBank each contributed 15 billion ($95.2 million). Each party received 50% of SB Tempus outstanding capital stock and board seats. SB Tempus will engage in certain business activities in Japan similar to those conducted by us in the United States, including performing clinical sequencing, organizing patient data, and building a real world data business in Japan. We have limited experience forming joint ventures and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Joint Venture. We may also realize losses related to our investment in the Joint Venture, which could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to finance any acquisitions, joint ventures or investments, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. For example, on November 4, 2024 we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, with REALM IDx, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or the Seller, and the Sellers ultimate parent, Konica Minolta, Inc., a Japanese corporation, as guarantor, pursuant to which we agreed to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Ambry. Such transaction is hereinafter referred to as the Acquisition. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, consideration for the Acquisition consisted of $375.0 million in cash, subject to adjustment for cash, unpaid indebtedness, unpaid transaction expenses and net working capital of Ambry, or Cash Consideration, plus an aggregate of 4,483,136 shares of our Class A common stock, or the Stock Consideration, all of which shares were issued by us to the Seller on February 3, 2025, upon the closing of the Acquisition, and 2,152,505 of which shares are subject to a lock-up for a period of one year following the closing date of the Acquisition. In connection with the Acquisition, we entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement providing for the Additional Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility. We utilized borrowings under the Additional Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility to fund the Cash Consideration for the Acquisition and to pay fees and expenses related thereto. For future acquisitions, joint ventures or investments, there can be no assurance that additional funds will be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies or fund a joint venture project using our stock as consideration. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. We have incurred net losses since our inception and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Generally, losses incurred will carry forward until such losses expire (for losses generated prior to January 1, 2018) or are used to offset future taxable income, if any. Under current law, U.S. federal net operating losses, or NOLs, incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, can be carried forward indefinitely to offset future taxable income, but the deductibility of such U.S. federal NOL carryforwards in a taxable year is limited to 80% of taxable income in such year. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the IRC, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in its equity ownership by certain stockholders over a three-year period, the corporations ability to use its pre-change net operating loss, carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. We have not completed a study to assess whether one or more ownership change for purposes of Section 382 or 383 have occurred since our inception. For purposes of Section 382 or 383, we may have experienced ownership changes in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of shifts in our stock ownership (some of which shifts are outside our control). As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOL carryforwards to offset such taxable income will be subject to limitations. Similar provisions of state tax law may also apply to limit our use of accumulated state tax attributes. Therefore, if we attain profitability, we may be unable to use a material portion of our NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our future cash flows. These changes may adversely affect our future cash flow. 107 Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added, or similar taxes, and we could be subject to tax liabilities with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not collect sales and use, value added, and similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable or that we are not required to collect such taxes with respect to the jurisdiction. Sales and use, value added, and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties, and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties, and interest or future requirements may adversely affect our results of operations. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could therefore differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. It is possible that interpretation, industry practice and guidance may evolve as we work toward implementing these new accounting standards. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from our assumptions, our operating results may be adversely affected and could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We are highly dependent on the services of Eric Lefkofsky and other members of our senior management team and the loss of any member of our senior management team or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, clinicians, sales representatives and business development managers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Eric Lefkofsky, our Founder, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of our board of directors. Mr. Lefkofsky spends substantially all of his professional time with us, and he is highly active in our management; however, he does devote some of his time and attention to other endeavors. Mr. Lefkofsky is also a co-founder and serves as Executive Chairman of the board of Pathos AI, Inc., an AI-enabled drug development company that has entered into an agreement with us, is the managing partner and co-founder of Lightbank LLC, a private venture capital firm specializing in investments in technology companies that has invested in us, and is a trustee of the Lefkofsky Family Foundation. Mr. Lefkofskys participation in and attention to these other endeavors may impact our business. In October 2022, for example, Lightbank and the Lefkofsky Family Foundation experienced a cybersecurity incident in which third party hackers gained access to Lightbanks internal computer services and were able to exfiltrate data regarding Lightbanks historical business practices and Mr. Lefkofskys personal financial information. While the incident did not involve or impact Tempus systems, this security breach or others like it could indirectly impact Tempus. In addition, we depend on the services of our Chief Operating Officer, Ryan Fukushima. Mr. Fukushima is a co-Founder of Pathos AI, Inc. and currently serves as its interim Chief Executive Officer. Under the terms of his employment agreement with Tempus, Mr. Fukushima devotes no less than 50% of his professional activities to Tempus. The individual and collective efforts of Mr. Lefkofsky, Mr. Fukushima and our other employees will be important as we continue to develop our Platform and additional products, and as we expand our commercial activities. The loss or incapacity of existing members of our executive management team, or the inability of such individuals to devote sufficient time to our endeavors, could adversely affect our operations if we experience difficulties in hiring qualified successors. While our executive officers have entered into employment agreements with us, they are at-will employees and we cannot guarantee their retention for any period of time. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees, including Mr. Lefkofsky. Additionally, we have a number of key employees whose equity ownership in our company gives them a substantial amount of personal wealth. As a result, it may be difficult for us to continue to retain and motivate these employees, and this wealth could affect their decisions about whether or not they continue to work for us or at all. 108 Our research and development programs and laboratory operations depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and technicians. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientists and technicians in the future due to the competition for qualified personnel among life science businesses, particularly near our laboratories in Chicago, Atlanta, Raleigh, and Aliso Viejo. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel. In addition, we may have difficulties locating, recruiting or retaining qualified sales representatives and business development managers, as well as software engineers. Recruiting and retention difficulties can limit our ability to support our research and development and sales programs. All of our employees are at-will, which means that either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. Our employees also are subject to certain post-employment noncompete obligations, unless otherwise prohibited by applicable law. On April 23, 2024, the FTC voted to finalize a rule banning almost all post-employment noncompetes, subject to narrow exceptions, including existing non-compete agreements with senior executives (as defined under the rule). However, on August 20, 2024, a federal judge in Texas issued a nationwide injunction on the implementation and enforceability of the FTCs ban on non-competes. While the FTC may appeal this Texas ruling, the FTCs non-compete ban is not likely to go into effect in the near-term future. Further, certain macroeconomic conditions, which have been referred to as the Great Resignation, may result in higher than normal attrition in the sectors in which we operate, and in our business in particular. Our ability to manage human capital, and attract and retain the resources necessary to operate our business successfully, may suffer as a result. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Upon completion of our IPO, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at such time as we cease to be an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse if a material weakness is identified. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, as described below. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We did not design or maintain an effective control environment due to an insufficient complement of personnel with the appropriate level of technical accounting and financial reporting knowledge and experience commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. We determined the material weakness described above has been remediated as of December 31, 2022 as management has completed the design and implementation of controls over technical accounting and financial reporting, including the hiring of a Chief Accounting Officer and other key technical accounting and financial reporting roles to further develop and document our accounting policies and financial reporting procedures, including ongoing senior management review. Refer to "Part II, Item 9A.