Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Form 10-Q, and (2) our consolidated financial statements, related notes and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, or the 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2019. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are the first and only provider of solutions for a new category of cybersecurity that we call Cyber Exposure. Cyber Exposure is a discipline for managing and measuring cybersecurity risk in the digital era. Our enterprise platform enables broad visibility into an organizations cyber exposure across the modern attack surface and deep insights that help organizations translate vulnerability data into business insights to understand and reduce their cybersecurity risk. Our enterprise platform offerings, including Tenable.io, Tenable.sc and Industrial Security, are built to provide organizations with the breadth of visibility to accurately understand both traditional and modern attack surfaces and the depth of insight that stems from risk-based analytics, prioritization and benchmarking. Our Cyber Exposure platform automatically discovers assets, including those in cloud environments, and assesses these assets for the presence of vulnerabilities, internal and regulatory compliance violations, misconfigurations and other cybersecurity issues, analyzes and prioritizes cybersecurity risks based on the likelihood of a vulnerability being exploited and the business criticality of the asset, and provides an objective way to measure an organizations cyber exposure. Our enterprise platform offerings are primarily sold on a subscription basis with terms ranging from one to three years, primarily one year. These offerings are typically prepaid in advance. To a lesser extent, we generate ratably recognizable revenue from perpetual licenses and from the related ongoing maintenance. Many of our enterprise platform customers initially use either our free or paid version of Nessus, one of the industrys most widely deployed vulnerability assessment solutions. Nessus, which is the technology that underpins our enterprise platform offerings, is designed to quickly and accurately identify vulnerabilities, configuration and compliance issues and malware. Our free version of Nessus, Nessus Home, allows for vulnerability assessment over a limited number of IP addresses. We believe many of our Nessus customers begin with Nessus Home and subsequently upgrade to Nessus Professional, the paid version of Nessus; however, we expect many users to continue to use Nessus Home. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years. Revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $80.3 million and $59.1 million , respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 36% . Our net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $21.4 million and $15.9 million , respectively, as we continue to invest in our business and market opportunity. 20 Table of Contents Financial Highlights Below are our key financial results: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 Revenue $ 80,301 $ 59,107 Loss from operations (22,685 ) (15,449 ) Net loss (21,440 ) (15,888 ) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted (0.23 ) (0.68 ) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (874 ) 504 Purchases of property and equipment (2,306 ) (1,596 ) Factors Affecting Our Performance Product Leadership We offer the first and only Cyber Exposure platform to provide visibility into the broadest range of traditional and modern IT assets across cloud and on-premises environments. We are intensely focused on continued innovation that empowers organizations to understand and reduce their cyber exposure. This includes ongoing development of our enterprise platform offerings. In February 2017, we released Tenable.io, our SaaS offering that is designed to provide broad visibility and insights across a broad range of traditional and modern IT assets and cloud environments. We continue to expand the capabilities of our enterprise platform offerings, as well as our Nessus products, specifically as it relates to the ability to scan for and detect the rapidly expanding volume of vulnerabilities. We intend to continue to invest in our engineering capabilities and marketing activities to maintain our position in the highly-competitive market for cybersecurity solutions. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments to drive increased customer adoption and usage. New Enterprise Platform Customer Acquisition We believe that our customer base provides a significant opportunity to expand sales of our enterprise platform offerings and that our ability to continue to grow our enterprise platform customers will increase future opportunities for renewals and follow-on sales. We believe that we have significant room to capture additional market share. We expect to grow our enterprise platform customers by continuing to expand our sales organization and leveraging our channel partner network, which we believe will allow us to identify new enterprise customers, enter new markets, including internationally, as well as to convert more of our existing Nessus Professional customers to enterprise platform customers. We have increased our sales and marketing headcount in recent years and we will continue to invest significantly in our partner network and sales and marketing capability in order to grow domestically and internationally. Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers Our enterprise platform offerings utilize IT asset-based or IP address-based pricing models. Once enterprise customers have licensed our platform offerings, they typically seek broader coverage over their traditional IT assets, including networking infrastructure, desktops and on-premises servers. As customers launch new applications or migrate existing applications to the cloud and deploy web applications, containers, internet of things, or IoT, and operational technology, or OT, they often increase the scope of their subscriptions and/or add additional perpetual licenses to our enterprise platforms. 21 Table of Contents We are also focused on upselling customers from Nessus Professional to our enterprise platform offerings. Nessus customers are typically organizations or independent security consultants that use Nessus for a single vulnerability assessment at a point in time. We seek to convert our Nessus Professional users to customers of our enterprise platform offerings, which provide continuous visibility and insights into their attack surface. Further, we plan to expand existing platform capabilities and launch new products, such as Tenable.io Lumin, which we believe will drive new product purchases and follow-on purchases over time, thereby contributing to customer renewals. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to drive additional sales to existing customers, and we expect to invest in sales and marketing and customer success personnel and activities to achieve additional revenue growth from existing customers. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, competition, pricing, economic conditions or overall changes in our spending levels. Investing in Business Growth Since our founding, we have invested significantly in growing our business. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our sales team, expand brand and Cyber Exposure awareness and optimize our channel partner network. We also intend to continue to invest in our research and development team to further our technological leadership position in Cyber Exposure and enhance the functionality of our solutions. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing and research and development teams will occur in advance of experiencing the benefits from such investments, so it may be difficult for us to determine if we are efficiently allocating resources in those areas. These investment activities could increase our net losses over the short term if our revenue growth does not increase at higher rates. However, we expect that these investments will ultimately benefit our results of operations. Key Operating and Financial Metrics To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating and financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our operating and financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by management for financial and operational decision-making. We present these operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to assist investors in seeing our operating and financial performance using a management view and because we believe that these measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core operating and financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Calculated Current Billings We use the non-GAAP measure of calculated current billings, which we believe is a key metric to measure our periodic performance. Given that most of our customers pay in advance, we typically recognize a majority of the related revenue ratably over time. We use calculated current billings to measure and monitor our ability to provide our business with the working capital generated by upfront payments from our customers. Calculated current billings consists of revenue recognized in a period plus the change in current deferred revenue in the corresponding period. We believe that calculated current billings, which excludes deferred revenue for periods beyond twelve months in a customers contractual term, more closely correlates with annual contract value and that the variability in total billings, depending on the timing of large multi-year contracts and the preference for annual billing versus multi-year upfront billing, may distort growth in one period over another. While we believe that calculated current billings provides valuable insight into the cash that will be generated from sales of our subscriptions, this metric may vary from period-to-period for a number of reasons, and therefore has a number of limitations as a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year comparative measure. For example, calculated current billings include amounts that have not yet been recognized as 22 Table of Contents revenue; an increasing number of large sales transactions, for which the timing has and will continue to vary, may occur in quarters subsequent to or in advance of those that we anticipate; and our calculation of current billings may be different from other companies that report similar financial measures. Additionally, calculated current billings in any one period may be impacted by the timing of customer renewals, including early renewals, which could favorably or unfavorably impact year-over-year comparisons. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider calculated current billings along with revenue and our other GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of revenue, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to calculated current billings: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Revenue $ 80,301 $ 59,107 Add: Deferred revenue (current), end of period 214,508 160,503 Less: Deferred revenue (current), beginning of period (213,644 ) (154,898 ) Calculated current billings $ 81,165 $ 64,712 Free Cash Flow We use the non-GAAP measure of free cash flow, which we define as GAAP net cash flows from operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure of the cash (if any) that is available, after purchases of property and equipment, for investment in our business and to make acquisitions. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash. Our use of free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results under GAAP. First, free cash flow is not a substitute for net cash flows from operating activities. Second, other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider free cash flow along with our GAAP financial measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash (used in) provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to free cash flow: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (874 ) $ 504 Purchases of property and equipment (2,306 ) (1,596 ) Free cash flow (1) $ (3,180 ) $ (1,092 ) _______________ (1) Free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was reduced by $4.9 million related to employee stock purchase plan activity. 23 Table of Contents Enterprise Platform Customers We believe that our customer base provides a significant opportunity to expand sales of our enterprise platform offerings. The following tables summarize key components of our customer base: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Change (%) Number of new enterprise platform customers added in period (1) 311 301 3% _______________ (1) We define an enterprise platform customer as a customer that has licensed Tenable.io or SecurityCenter for an annual amount of $5,000 or greater. New enterprise platform customers represent new customer logos during the periods presented and do not include customer conversions from Nessus Professional to enterprise platforms. At March 31, 2019 2018 Change (%) Number of customers with $100,000 and greater in annual contract value at end of period 494 307 61% Non-GAAP Loss from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We use non-GAAP loss from operations, which excludes the effect of stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, as a key indicator of our financial performance, along with non-GAAP operating margin, which is calculated as non-GAAP loss from operations divided by our revenue in the period. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our core operating results over multiple periods. There are a number of limitations related to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures as compared to GAAP loss from operations and operating margin, including that non-GAAP loss from operations and non-GAAP operating margin exclude stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. The following table presents a reconciliation of loss from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP loss from operations, and operating margin, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP operating margin: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Loss from operations $ (22,685 ) $ (15,449 ) Stock-based compensation 9,319 2,399 Amortization of intangible assets 151 151 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (13,215 ) $ (12,899 ) Operating margin (28 )% (26 )% Non-GAAP operating margin (16 )% (22 )% Non-GAAP Net Loss, Non-GAAP Net Loss Per Share and Pro Forma Non-GAAP Net Loss Per Share We use non-GAAP net loss, which excludes the effect of the accretion of Series A and B redeemable convertible preferred stock, stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, as well as the related tax impact, to calculate non-GAAP net loss per share and pro forma non-GAAP net loss per share. Pro forma non-GAAP net loss per share is calculated by giving effect to the conversion of our redeemable convertible preferred stock into common stock as though the conversion occurred at the beginning of each period presented prior to 2019. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide important information to management and investors because they facilitate comparisons of our core operating results over multiple periods. 24 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, and net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share and pro forma non-GAAP net loss per share: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except for per share amounts) 2019 2018 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (21,440 ) $ (16,076 ) Accretion of Series A and B redeemable convertible preferred stock 188 Stock-based compensation 9,319 2,399 Tax impact of stock-based compensation (1) (649 ) (23 ) Amortization of intangible assets (1) 151 151 Non-GAAP net loss $ (12,619 ) $ (13,361 ) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.23 ) $ (0.68 ) Accretion of Series A and B redeemable convertible preferred stock 0.01 Stock-based compensation 0.10 0.10 Tax impact of stock-based compensation (1) Amortization of intangible assets (1) Non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.13 ) $ (0.57 ) Weighted-average shares used to compute net loss per share attributable to common stockholders and non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted 93,738 23,495 Pro forma adjustment to reflect the assumed conversion of our convertible redeemable preferred stock as of the beginning of the period 55,386 Weighted-average shares used to compute pro forma non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted 93,738 78,881 Pro forma non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.13 ) $ (0.17 ) ________________ (1) The tax impact of the adjustments to net loss attributable to common stockholders is based on the tax treatment for applicable tax jurisdictions. There was no tax impact related to the amortization of intangible assets as it was incurred in the United States in periods in which we had a net operating loss for which we maintained a full valuation allowance. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from subscription arrangements for our software and cloud-based solutions, perpetual licenses, maintenance associated with perpetual licenses and professional services. We begin to recognize revenue when control of our software or services is transferred to the customer, which for sales made through distributors is concurrent with the transfer to the end user. Our subscription arrangements generally have annual or multi-year contractual terms and allow customers to use our software or cloud-based solutions, including ongoing software updates during the contractual period. Revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term given the critical utility provided by the ongoing updates that are released throughout the contract period. Our perpetual licenses are generally sold with one or more years of maintenance, which includes ongoing software updates. Given the critical utility provided by the ongoing software updates and updated ability to identify network vulnerabilities included in maintenance, we combine the perpetual license and the maintenance into a single performance obligation. Perpetual license arrangements generally contain a material right related to the customers ability to renew 25 Table of Contents maintenance at a price that is less than the initial license fee. We apply a practical alternative to allocating a portion of the transaction price to the material right performance obligation and estimate a hypothetical transaction price which includes fees for expected maintenance renewals based on the estimated economic life of perpetual license contracts. We allocate the transaction price between the cybersecurity subscription provided in the initial contract and the material right related to expected contract renewals based on the hypothetical transaction price. We recognize the amount allocated to the combined license and maintenance performance obligation over the initial contractual period, which is generally one year. We recognize the amount allocated to the material right over the expected maintenance renewal period, which begins at the end of the initial contractual term and is generally four years. We have estimated the five-year economic life of perpetual license contracts based on historical contract attrition, expected renewal periods, the lifecycle of our technology and other factors. This estimate may change over time. Professional services and other revenue is primarily comprised of advisory services and training related to the deployment and optimization of our products. These services do not result in significant customization of our products. Professional services and other revenue is recognized as the services are performed. We have historically experienced, and expect in the future to experience, seasonality in entering into agreements with customers. We typically enter into a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the third and fourth quarters of the year. The increase in customer agreements in the third quarter is primarily attributable to U.S. government and related agencies, and the increase in the fourth quarter is primarily attributable to large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry. Our recent growth and the ratable nature of our subscription revenue makes this seasonality less apparent in our overall financial results. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes personnel costs related to our technical support group that provides assistance to customers, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue also includes hosting costs for Tenable.io, the costs related to professional services and training, depreciation and amortization and allocated overhead costs, which consist of information technology and facilities. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our cloud-based platform and our customer support team as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the timing of our acquisition of new customers and our renewals of and follow-on sales to existing customers, the costs associated with operating our cloud-based platform, the extent to which we expand our customer support team and the extent to which we can increase the efficiency of our technology and infrastructure through technological improvements. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars but our gross margin to decrease, as we expect revenue from our cloud-based subscriptions to increase as a percentage of revenue, although our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of all of these factors. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses also include depreciation and amortization as well as allocated overhead costs including IT and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists of personnel costs, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel and entertainment, expenses for conferences and events and allocated overhead costs. 26 Table of Contents We intend to continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing teams to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our global customer base. We expect our sales and marketing expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars and to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. However, as our revenue increases, we expect our sales and marketing expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Research and Development Research and development expense consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products, travel and entertainment, consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development expense supports our efforts to continue to add capabilities to our existing products and enable the continued detection of new network vulnerabilities. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud-based platform. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include travel and entertainment, professional fees, insurance and allocated overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, and interest expense in connection with fees for our unused revolving credit facility. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net consists primarily of foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our consolidated results of operations: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Revenue $ 80,301 $ 59,107 Cost of revenue (1) 13,226 8,728 Gross profit 67,075 50,379 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 52,689 39,588 Research and development (1) 21,935 17,185 General and administrative (1) 15,136 9,055 Total operating expenses 89,760 65,828 Loss from operations (22,685 ) (15,449 ) Interest income (expense), net 1,556 (26 ) Other (expense) income, net (214 ) 18 Loss before income taxes (21,343 ) (15,457 ) Provision for income taxes 97 431 Net loss $ (21,440 ) $ (15,888 ) _______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Cost of revenue $ 652 $ 77 Sales and marketing 3,366 602 Research and development 2,030 527 General and administrative 3,271 1,193 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 9,319 $ 2,399 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 ($) (%) Revenue $ 80,301 $ 59,107 $ 21,194 36 % The increase in revenue of $21.2 million was comprised of increases in subscription revenue of $20.4 million , perpetual license and maintenance revenue of $0.1 million and professional services and other revenue of $0.7 million . Revenue from existing customers comprised 41% of the increase, while the remaining increase was due to revenue from new customers since April 1, 2018 . International revenue increased $9.2 million , or 48% . 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 ($) (%) Cost of revenue $ 13,226 $ 8,728 $ 4,498 52 % Gross profit 67,075 50,379 16,696 33 % Gross margin 84 % 85 % The increase in cost of revenue of $4.5 million was primarily due to: a $1.9 million increase in personnel costs primarily due to increased headcount, including a $0.6 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $1.0 million increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs largely associated with the increased adoption of Tenable.io; a $0.8 million increase in allocated overhead costs driven by both the increase in headcount and the overall increase in such costs on a year-over-year basis; and a $0.2 million increase in software subscription expenses. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 ($) (%) Sales and marketing $ 52,689 $ 39,588 $ 13,101 33 % The increase in sales and marketing expense of $13.1 million was primarily due to: a $9.3 million increase in personnel costs largely associated with an increase in headcount, including a $2.8 million increase in stock-based compensation and a $1.0 million increase in the employer portion of payroll taxes related to option exercises; a $2.1 million increase in sales commissions, including sales commission draws, due to increased sales and the amortization of deferred commissions; a $1.6 million increase in selling expenses, including travel and meeting costs and the costs of software subscriptions; a $1.0 million increase in expenses for demand generation programs, including advertising, sponsorships and brand awareness efforts aimed at acquiring new customers; a $0.6 million increase in allocated overhead costs, driven by both the increase in headcount and the overall increase in such costs on a year-over-year basis; partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in expenses related to the timing of our annual user conference. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 ($) (%) Research and development $ 21,935 $ 17,185 $ 4,750 28 % The increase in research and development expense of $4.8 million was primarily due to: a $4.5 million increase in personnel costs largely associated with an increase in headcount, including a $1.6 million increase in stock-based compensation and a $0.3 million increase in the employer portion of payroll taxes related to option exercises, net of $0.9 million of development costs capitalized for internal use software; and 29 Table of Contents a $0.3 million increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs related to the development of new and future offerings. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 ($) (%) General and administrative $ 15,136 $ 9,055 $ 6,081 67 % The increase in general and administrative expense of $6.1 million was primarily due to: a $4.1 million increase in personnel costs largely associated with an increase in headcount, including a $2.1 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $1.1 million increase in professional fees; and a $0.2 million increase in software subscription expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents consisting of bank deposits, commercial paper and money market funds of $168.0 million and short-term investments consisting of commercial paper, U.S Treasury and agency obligations and corporate bonds of $131.0 million . Since our inception and prior to our IPO, we financed our operations through cash provided by operations, including payments received from customers using our software products and services, and we did not raise any primary institutional capital prior to our IPO. The proceeds of our Series A and Series B redeemable convertible preferred stock financings were used to repurchase shares of capital stock from former stockholders. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected by our accumulated deficit of $487.5 million at March 31, 2019 . We typically invoice our customers annually in advance and, to a lesser extent, multi-year in advance. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred revenue. Deferred revenue consists primarily of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions and perpetual licenses, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. At March 31, 2019 , we had deferred revenue of $291.9 million , of which $214.5 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development activities and investments in infrastructure. We expect to continue incurring operating losses and generating negative cash flows from operations in the near-term; however, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support further infrastructure and research and development efforts, the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in new and existing office spaces, such as our new corporate headquarters, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operating activities, the timing of introduction of new product capabilities and enhancements of our platform and the continuing market acceptance of our platform. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek equity or debt financing. In the event that financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Credit Facility In May 2017, we entered into a $25.0 million revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. Pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit facility, we may issue up to $5.0 million of letters of credit, which reduce the total amount available for borrowing under such facility. The revolving credit facility terminates on May 4, 2020. To date, we have not borrowed any amounts under the revolving credit facility. Interest on borrowings under the revolving credit facility accrues at a variable rate tied to the prime rate or the LIBOR rate, at our election. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears. We are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee that accrues at a rate of 0.25% per annum on the unused portion of the borrowing commitment. The revolving credit facility contains customary conditions to borrowing, events of default and covenants, including restrictions on indebtedness, liens, acquisitions and investments, restricted payments and dispositions. If, as of the last day of any quarter, the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility exceeds $5.0 million, there are financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum level of earnings before income taxes, interest, depreciation and amortization adjusted to add changes in deferred revenue in the period and a minimum current ratio level. We were in compliance with all covenants under the revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 . Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (874 ) $ 504 Net cash used in investing activities (14,471 ) (1,596 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 18,453 363 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (258 ) (57 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 2,850 $ (786 ) Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash used in operating activities was $0.9 million , which primarily consisted of our $21.4 million loss, adjusted for stock-based compensation expense of $9.3 million and depreciation and amortization of $1.6 million , as well as a net cash inflow of $9.9 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $11.1 million decrease in accounts receivable due to collections from customers and a $2.0 million increase in deferred revenue primarily due to increased subscription sales as a majority of our customers are invoiced in advance. The net inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was partially offset by a $7.2 million decrease in accrued compensation, including $4.9 million related to employee stock purchase plan activity, and quarterly bonuses and commissions earned in the fourth quarter of 2018 that were paid in the first quarter of 2019. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by operating activities was $0.5 million , which primarily consisted of our $15.9 million loss, adjusted for stock-based compensation expense of $2.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $1.5 million , as well as a net cash inflow of $12.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $7.8 million decrease in accounts receivable due to collections from customers and a $4.8 million increase in deferred revenue from increased subscription sales as a majority of our customers are invoiced in advance, partially offset by quarterly bonuses and commissions earned in the fourth quarter of 2017 that were paid in the first quarter of 2018. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $12.9 million , primarily due to the purchase, net of any sales and maturities, of short-term investments in commercial paper, U.S. Treasury and agency obligations and corporate bonds. 31 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $18.1 million , primarily due to $9.9 million and $8.6 million of proceeds from stock issued in connection with the exercise of stock options and the employee stock purchase plan, respectively. Contractual Obligations At March 31, 2019 , there were no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2019 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. 32 Table of Contents