Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from the information expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, objective, ongoing, plan, predict, project, potential, should, will, or would, or the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology intended to identify statements about the future. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our market opportunity; the effects of increased competition as well as innovations by new and existing competitors in our market; our ability to adapt to technological change, release new products and product features and effectively enhance, innovate and scale our enterprise platform and solutions; our ability to effectively manage or sustain our growth and to achieve profitability; our ability to maintain and expand our customer base, including by attracting new customers; our relationships with third parties, including channel partners; potential acquisitions and integration of complementary businesses and technologies; our ability to maintain, or strengthen awareness of, our brand; perceived or actual problems with the security, integrity, reliability, compatibility and quality of our platform and solutions; future revenue, hiring plans, expenses, capital expenditures, capital requirements and stock performance; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel and further expand our overall headcount; our ability to stay abreast of new or modified laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; and the future trading prices of our common stock and the impact of securities analysts reports on these prices. These statements represent the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to us. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part I, Item 1A. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Item 1. Business Overview We are the first and only provider of solutions for a new category of cybersecurity that we call Cyber Exposure. Cyber Exposure is a discipline for managing and measuring cybersecurity risk in the digital era. We are building on our deep technology expertise in the traditional vulnerability assessment and management market and expanding that market to include modern attack surfaces and provide analytics that translate vulnerability data into business insight. 3 Table of Contents Digital transformation is driving radical change. As organizations modernize their IT infrastructure and adopt cloud or hybrid cloud architectures that are no longer housed in the confines of their corporate networks, they have less visibility and control over the security of these assets. Organizations are also increasingly implementing modern solutions, such as Internet of Things, or IoT, devices and application containers, to enable the rapid development and deployment of new products, services and business models, as well as to drive operational efficiencies. Further, safety-critical Operational Technology, or OT, such as Industrial Control Systems, are now network-connected and need to be secured from cybersecurity threats. This digital transformation increases IT complexity and cybersecurity risk as attack surfaces expand. We refer to an organizations inability to see the breadth of the modern attack surface and analyze the level of cyber exposure as the Cyber Exposure Gap. While other functions in an organization, such as finance and operations, have a system to help them manage and measure risk, to date, cybersecurity risk has not been adequately measured and understood. Our platform is built to be the Cyber Exposure Command Center for an organizations Chief Information Security Officer, or CISO. Our platform provides the CISO with unified visibility into the organizations state of security and enables security teams to prioritize and focus their remediation efforts. Our platform also translates vulnerability data into actionable business metrics and insights that boards of directors and executives can understand and use to make strategic decisions. We believe our Cyber Exposure solutions are transforming how security is managed and measured and will help organizations more rapidly embrace digital transformation. Our platform offerings provide broad visibility into security issues such as vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, internal and regulatory compliance violations and other indicators of the state of an organizations security. We also provide deep analytics to help organizations measure trends in their cyber exposure over time. Our platform integrates and analyzes data from our native collectors alongside IT asset, vulnerability and threat data from third-party systems and applications to prioritize security issues for remediation and focus an organizations resources based on risk and business criticality. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. In 2018 , 2017 and 2016 our total revenue was $267.4 million , $187.7 million and $124.4 million , respectively, representing year-over-year growth rates of 42% from 2017 to 2018 and 51% from 2016 to 2017 . Our net loss was $73.5 million , $41.0 million and $37.2 million in 2018 , 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our Platform Offerings Our vision is to empower every organization to understand and reduce their cybersecurity risk. We are the first and only platform designed to provide broad visibility and deep insights into cyber exposure across the entire modern attack surface, as a result of which we believe our platform can become the system of record for cybersecurity. Our Enterprise Platform Offerings Our enterprise platform is built to serve as the Cyber Exposure Command Center, enabling organizations to answer foundational and strategic questions such as: Where are we exposed? Where should we prioritize based on risk? Are we reducing our exposure over time? How do we compare to our peers? Our enterprise platform offerings, including Tenable.io, Tenable.sc, previously referred to as SecurityCenter, and Industrial Security, are built to provide organizations with the breadth of visibility to accurately understand both traditional and modern attack surfaces and the depth of insight that stems from risk-based analytics, prioritization and benchmarking. Our Cyber Exposure platform automatically discovers assets, including those in cloud environments, and assesses these assets for the presence of vulnerabilities, internal and regulatory compliance violations, misconfigurations and other cybersecurity issues, analyzes and prioritizes cybersecurity risks based on the likelihood of a vulnerability being exploited and the business criticality of the asset, and provides an objective way to measure an organizations cyber exposure. We offer two solutions for vulnerability management which provide flexible deployment options based on a customers maturity in moving to the cloud. Tenable.io is our software as a service, or SaaS, offering for vulnerability 4 Table of Contents management, and Tenable.sc is our on-premises vulnerability management offering, both of which enable organizations to quickly and accurately identify, investigate and prioritize vulnerabilities and misconfigurations across a range of traditional IT assets, such as networking infrastructure, desktops and on-premises servers, and modern IT assets, such as cloud workloads, containers, web applications, IoT and OT assets. Enterprises typically start with vulnerability management to secure traditional IT assets and expand their deployment over time to cover more traditional IT assets and/or more types of modern assets by deploying additional applications. For organizations with hybrid IT environments, some customers choose to expand their deployments to include both Tenable.sc and Tenable.io as an integrated solution spanning both on-premise and cloud-based management. Launched in 2017 in partnership with Siemens, Industrial Security, an OT-specific offering, is an asset discovery and vulnerability assessment solution, built on our patented passive network monitoring technology. Industrial Security monitors critical infrastructure in energy, utilities and other sectors, utilizing a non-intrusive approach to give security and plant operations teams the ability to discover, visualize and monitor their most sensitive systems. Industrial Security includes comprehensive asset discovery, passive vulnerability detection and multi-site management, which allows for a consolidated view across multiple locations. We currently offer Industrial Security as a stand-alone solution, and we intend to integrate it within the Tenable.io offering. Our enterprise platform offerings deliver the following capabilities: Live asset discovery. We can automatically discover a broad range of traditional and modern IT assets, including on-premises infrastructure, applications, cloud environments, mobile devices, containers, IoT devices and OT systems. We use a combination of active scanning, passive network monitoring and public cloud monitoring via our connector to identify known and unknown assets on the network. Automated exposure assessment. With every change in a customers computing environment, we can automatically assess and identify where there are vulnerabilities, internal and regulatory compliance violations and misconfigurations across assets and cloud environments, such as missing software patches or outdated software versions. In addition, we can help optimize existing security technology investments to identify indicators of cyber exposure, such as improperly configured anti-virus software. Deep analytics to allow for prioritization. We combine our product and research IP with third-party data to provide business context and allow organizations to prioritize remediation efforts based on the business criticality of the asset and the severity of the issue. Additionally, we recently announced the release of Predictive Prioritization, which enables organizations to reduce business risk by focusing on the vulnerabilities with the greatest likelihood of imminently being exploited. Predictive Prioritization combines Tenable vulnerability data with third party threat and vulnerability data across 150 data sources using a proprietary machine learning algorithm developed by the Tenable Research data science team to predict the likelihood of a vulnerability being exploited. Predictive Prioritization provides a threat-based view of vulnerabilities, which is a critical component of modern vulnerability management, and will be included within both Tenable.io and Tenable.sc. Open and extensible platform . Our platform ingests a wide set of third-party data sources to enhance analysis and integrates that data with industry-leading IT workflow, security information and event management, or SIEM, and systems management tools to accelerate remediation and provide common visibility across security and IT operations teams. Cyber exposure measurement. Our expansive knowledge base of assets and vulnerabilities coupled with data science insights help our customers objectively score, trend and benchmark cyber exposure across their organizations, including by business unit or geography, and compare their cyber exposure against industry peers and best practices. We believe this capability is critical to help the CISO effectively translate technical information and communicate cybersecurity risk to a non-technical audience, including the C-suite and the Board of Directors, to make better strategic decisions on where to focus investment to maximize cybersecurity risk reduction. Our vision is to create industry standard metrics and benchmarks for Cyber Exposure to create an objective measure of cyber risk. In support of this vision, we plan to release Tenable Lumin to help organizations with cyber exposure measurement, which will include scoring, trending and benchmarking capabilities and data science insights. Nessus Our co-founder is the creator of Nessus, one of the most widely deployed vulnerability assessment solutions in the cybersecurity industry, which underpins our enterprise platform. Since the introduction of Nessus in 1998, an extensive 5 Table of Contents community of Nessus users has emerged. We continue to cultivate knowledge and affinity within this user base, which, when combined with our enterprise customers and our Tenable Research team of cybersecurity and data science experts, creates powerful network effects in the form of a continuous feedback loop of data and insights. We use these learnings to expand our assessment capabilities and coverage, continually optimize our solutions and inform our product strategy and innovation priorities. We believe these data and insights will also fuel and strengthen our benchmarking capabilities over time. Nessus Professional Nessus Professional is a vulnerability assessment solution for identifying security vulnerabilities, configuration issues and malware. Nessus Professional serves as both a stand-alone product designed for security consultants and practitioners performing one-time or ad-hoc assessment as well as an on-ramp product to our enterprise platform. With broad vulnerability coverage, accurate analysis and an easy-to-use interface, Nessus Professional offers a cost-effective and comprehensive solution for security consultants and users with ad-hoc assessment needs. Nessus Home We also offer a free version of our Nessus product, Nessus Home, which includes vulnerability and configuration assessment for a limited number of assets, but does not include access to support and certain features that Nessus Professional customers enjoy. Technology Architecture Our platform is built from the ground up to support the needs of modern IT assets and cloud environments. Our platforms scalability can meet the requirements of the largest global enterprise customers, which may require assessment for millions of assets. In addition, we offer a published service level agreement promising 99.95% availability to help ensure the reliability of operation for our customers. Foundational elements of our technology architecture include: Microservices-based architecture . DevOps are software development practices and tools that increase an organizations ability to rapidly deliver applications and services. In a DevOps model, building security into the application development process is difficult. Technologies like microservices, which structure an application as a collection of loosely coupled services, and application containers, which are lightweight, portable pieces of software used to package applications and services, have emerged to support DevOps processes. Our architecture consists of microservices running in containers provided by Docker Inc. and orchestrated by the open-source system Kubernetes. Containers allow us to utilize a DevOps philosophy in our software development lifecycle, which permits us to perform numerous code updates per day. The result is faster and more predictable time to market for new capabilities and services. Public cloud infrastructure for agility. Our use of the public cloud delivers agility and market responsiveness without the capital investment or time delay involved with planning, purchasing and deploying hardware. It also provides a flexible cost profile in which capacity can be quickly adjusted up or down in response to new opportunities and market demand, with relatively modest fixed costs. Scalability. Our platform scales up and down to continuously meet customer demands, through the use of public cloud infrastructure around the world. This approach provides elastic resources for compute, data transfer and storage, and allows us to meet the needs of even the largest global enterprises and government agencies. Our platform manages and supports millions of assets for multiple enterprise customers across a variety of industries, with the ability to process millions of application programming interface, or API, calls daily. The platform can scale to support IoT deployments that are an order of magnitude larger than IT deployments. Availability. Our modern architecture, leveraging state-of-the-art public cloud services, offers high availability and high performance. It provides geographic redundancy, as well as automated backup, without the need for us to build redundant infrastructure. As a result, we offer a service level agreement for Tenable.io that promises 99.95% availability. Portability. Tenable.io primarily resides in a public cloud environment and offers the flexibility to be deployed as traditional software in on-premises environments, partner environments and hybrid deployments. Extensibility and integration. Our open API and software development kit, or SDK, enable import of data from third-party sources and sensors-including competitor products-to augment our native discovery, 6 Table of Contents assessment and analytics. This is essential to providing a unified view of assets, vulnerabilities and exposure across the enterprise. These capabilities also enable flexible export of our data to third party systems. Widely adopted industry standard file format. The .Nessus file format for vulnerability data used in all of our products is openly documented and supported by dozens of products and programming languages, which simplifies integration with our ecosystem partners technologies. Our Technology Ecosystem We have partnered and/or integrated with leading technology companies to pioneer the industrys first Cyber Exposure ecosystem to help organizations build resilient cybersecurity programs. Our ecosystem consists of a variety of third-party data import sources into our platform offerings, as well as export of our data out to third-party IT systems. Our technology ecosystem connects disparate solutions and data to automate processes and accelerate an organizations ability to understand, manage and reduce its cyber exposure. We integrate a variety of third-party data sources into our platform to augment our native data collection and help with analysis and prioritization. Furthermore, our data is also exported out to enrich third-party IT management and security systems. Our Growth Strategy Our objectives are to maintain our market leadership in Cyber Exposure and to capture our large market opportunity. To accomplish these objectives, we intend to: Continue to Acquire New Enterprise Platform Customers. We believe there is a substantial opportunity to increase adoption of our enterprise platform offerings. We have experienced strong growth in new platform customers due to investments in sales and marketing. We intend to continue to aggressively pursue new customers by adding sales capacity and leveraging our network of channel partners. Expand Asset Coverage Within Our Customer Base . We believe we have a significant opportunity to expand our relationships with our existing customers by targeting additional teams, business units or geographies, pursuing broad enterprise deployments and generally expanding our coverage of their IT assets. Invest in Our Technology Platform and Expand Use Cases . We intend to continue to innovate and develop our enterprise platform, including the addition of incremental capabilities, such as coverage of new attack surfaces and asset types and the addition of analytical capabilities, to help our customers measure and benchmark their cyber exposure. As we collect more data and ingest more data from third-party sources, we believe our data set will become even more valuable over time, which will allow us to continue to develop new analytical products and capabilities to our existing product suite over time. We also plan to release Tenable Lumin, a new application that will provide cyber exposure scoring, trending and benchmarking capabilities to help organizations measure their internal cyber exposure, including by business unit or geography, and against industry peers and best-in-class performers. Accelerate International Expansion . We intend to increase our international customer base by leveraging and expanding investments in our technology, direct sales force and channel partnerships around the world. Customers We sell and market our enterprise platform offerings through our field sales force that works closely with our channel partners, which includes a network of distributors and resellers, in developing sales opportunities. We use a two-tiered channel model whereby we sell our enterprise platform offerings to our distributors, which in turn sell to our resellers, which then sell to end users, which we call customers. Our customers are located in over 160 countries and include enterprises of all sizes and span a wide range of industries, including manufacturing, energy and industrials; technology, media and telecommunications; banking, insurance and finance; government, education and non-profit; healthcare; and retail and consumer. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 , we had over 27,000 and 24,000 customers, respectively, who licensed our Tenable.io, Tenable.sc or Nessus Professional products. Our customers include 58% of the Fortune 500 and 32% of the Global 2000 organizations at December 31, 2018 . In 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , no single customer represented more than 2% of our revenue. 7 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Our sales strategy employs both a direct-touch approach through our sales forces and a low-touch approach through sales closed by our channel partners and transacted our on e-commerce website. Both direct-touch and channel-originated sales are fulfilled through our channel partnerships. Our sales and customer success renewal teams collaborate closely with our channel partners to prospect, manage and support our customers, developing and maintaining close relationships with all of our platform customers. We sell to organizations of all sizes across a broad range of industries, with a specific focus on enterprise accounts. Our sales team is divided by customer size and geography, including Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA; and Asia Pacific and Japan, or APAC. Our partner ecosystem provides us with a number of advantages, including increased in-bound registered sales leads, broader geographic reach and greater deal velocity. Our channel partners include distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators and managed security service providers. Our marketing efforts focus on cultivating brand awareness and leveraging our brand strength with Nessus, building demand across all segments with a specific emphasis on our enterprise customers and delivering tailored marketing programs focused on CISOs and security executives, functional managers and security practitioners and consultants with Nessus. We also provide educational programs to DevOps teams for our Container Security and Web Application Scanning products. We execute marketing programs targeted at new customer acquisition, customer retention and cross-selling and up-selling of products across our platform. Research and Development Our engineering expertise combines extensive security product development experience with individuals who possess deep cloud and user interface design background. Our engineering team has groups that focus on Nessus configuration auditing, Nessus vulnerability enumeration, passive network traffic analysis and system log analysis, including public cloud. Additionally, our Tenable Research team includes a team of cybersecurity and data science experts who produce original research and apply data science techniques to our security telemetry data to provide meaningful insights. This data fuels the benchmarking offering in our platform and we believe will become a trusted source throughout the industry for understanding Cyber Exposure. Tenable Research, including data science, is a key component of our thought leadership. We believe ongoing and timely development of new products and features is imperative to maintaining our competitive position. We continue to invest in development of our solutions across our global innovation centers in Columbia, Maryland; Los Angeles, California; San Jose, California and Dublin, Ireland. Our research and development expense was $76.7 million , $57.7 million and $40.1 million in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Backlog We define backlog as contractually committed orders to be invoiced under our existing agreements that are not included in the deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 , we had backlog of $3.3 million and $3.1 million , respectively. We expect substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2018 to be invoiced within the following twelve months. Competition The market for cybersecurity solutions is fragmented, intensely competitive and constantly evolving. We compete with a range of established and emerging cybersecurity software and services vendors, as well as homegrown solutions. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect the competitive environment to remain intense going forward. Our competitors include: vulnerability management and assessment vendors, including Qualys and Rapid7; diversified security software and services vendors, including IBM; endpoint security vendors with nascent vulnerability assessment capabilities, including Tanium and CrowdStrike; and providers of point solutions that compete with some of the features present in our solutions. We also compete against internally-developed efforts that 8 Table of Contents often use open source solutions. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for cybersecurity solutions include product functionality, breadth and depth of offerings, flexibility of delivery models, ease of deployment and use, integration capabilities such as open APIs and scalability, uptime and performance. We believe that our suite of solutions generally competes favorably with respect to these factors and may serve as a complement to the solutions offered by our competitors in some cases. Some of our more established actual and potential competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, as our market grows and rapidly changes, we expect it will continue to attract new competitors, including larger established companies and smaller emerging companies, which could introduce new products and services. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, patents and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2018, we had 14 issued patents and five patent applications pending in the United States. Our issued patents expire between 2027 and 2034 and cover our passive network scanning, monitoring and analysis technologies and additional features of our enterprise platform. As of December 31, 2018 , we had 16 registered trademarks and one trademark application pending in the United States. We view our copyrights, trade secrets and know-how as a significant component of our intellectual property assets. We also license certain software from third parties for integration into our solutions, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that such third parties will maintain such software or continue to make it available. We control access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers and partners, and our software is protected by U.S. and international copyright and trade secret laws. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary rights through intellectual property rights, licenses and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, unauthorized parties may still attempt to copy, reverse engineer misappropriate or otherwise obtain and use our software and technology. In addition, we intend to expand our international operations, and effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in foreign countries. Government Regulation Various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies have legislation pending that could affect our business. In particular, the European Union has passed the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which came into force on May 25, 2018. The GDPR includes more stringent operational requirements on entities that receive or process personal data (as compared to existing EU law), along with significant penalties for non-compliance, more robust obligations on data processors and data controllers, greater rights for data subjects (potentially requiring significant changes to both our technology and operations), and heavier documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs. Similarly, there are a number of federal and state level legislative proposals in the United States that could impose new obligations on us. For example, California recently enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act, or the CCPA, which creates new individual privacy rights for consumers and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling the personal data of consumers or households. When it goes into effect on January 1, 2020, the CCPA will require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers , which could include certain of our employees based on the broad definitions in the law, to provide such consumers new ways to opt out of certain sales of personal information and to allow for a new causes of action for data breaches. In addition, some countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing more onerous data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or other requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Like other U.S.-based IT security products, our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations, specifically the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, U.S. economic and trade sanctions regulations and applicable foreign government import, export and use requirements. Certain of our products are subject to encryption controls under the EAR due to the nature of the product and its use or incorporation of encryption functionality. Under 9 Table of Contents the encryption controls in the EAR, applicable products may only be exported outside of the United States with required export authorizations, such as a license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations. In addition to the restrictions under the EAR, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the export of products and services to countries, governments, entities or persons subject to U.S. embargoes or trade sanctions. Employees and Culture As of December 31, 2018 , we had 1,252 employees , including 329 employees located outside of the United States. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We believe in upholding a core set of values for our entire global workforce: One Tenable : We are united as one Tenable team. We win together. We are one team internally, with our customers, with our partners and in the market. We Care : About our work, about our customers, about one another and about our communities. We speak straight and we do the right thing. Deliver Results : We set high goals, take bold risks, measure honestly and deliver results that exceed expectations. What We Do Matters : The work that we do makes a difference in the world. Financial Information and Segments Segment and geographic information required here in Item 1 can be found in Note 1 and Note 10 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements, of this Form 10-K. Corporate Information Tenable Network Security, Inc., our predecessor, was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 2002. Tenable Holdings, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in October 2015, and in November 2015, Tenable Network Security, Inc. was merged into our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary and in 2017 was renamed as Tenable, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 7021 Columbia Gateway Drive, Suite 500, Columbia, Maryland 21046. Our telephone number is (410) 872-0555. Our website address is www.tenable.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference, and you should not consider any information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Tenable, Nessus, Tenable.io and the Tenable logo, and other trademarks or service marks of Tenable Holdings, Inc. appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Tenable Holdings, Inc. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains additional trade names, trademarks and service marks of others, which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may appear without the or TM symbols. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available for download free of charge from our investor relations website https://investors.tenable.com after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SECs website https://www.sec.gov contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The contents of any website referred to in this Form 10-K are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to significant risks and uncertainties including those described below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information 10 Table of Contents contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K , including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or others not specified below materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have historically incurred net losses, including net losses of $73.5 million , $41.0 million and $37.2 million in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. As of December 31, 2018 , we had an accumulated deficit of $466.1 million . Because the market for our offerings is highly competitive and rapidly evolving and these solutions have not yet reached widespread adoption, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations. While we have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods, we are not certain whether or when we will obtain a high enough volume of sales of our offerings to sustain or increase our growth or achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results if our revenue does not increase at a greater rate. In particular, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: research and development related to our offerings, including investments in our research and development team; sales and marketing, including a significant expansion of our sales organization, both domestically and internationally; continued international expansion of our business; and general and administrative expense, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we are unable to increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability over the long term. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our revenue growth does not meet our expectations in future periods, our financial performance may be harmed, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. From 2017 to 2018 , our revenue grew from $187.7 million to $267.4 million , representing year-over-year growth of 42% . This growth was primarily from an increase in subscription revenue. From 2016 to 2017 , our revenue grew from $124.4 million to $187.7 million , representing year-over-year growth of 51% . Our adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , or ASC 606, as of January 1, 2017 contributed three percentage points to that growth rate. Although we have experienced rapid growth historically and currently have high customer renewal rates, we may not continue to grow as rapidly in the future due to a decline in our renewal rates, failure to attract new customers or other factors. Any success that we may experience in the future will depend in large part on our ability to, among other things: maintain and expand our customer base; increase revenue from existing customers through increased or broader use of our offerings within their organizations; improve the performance and capabilities of our offerings through research and development; continue to develop and expand our enterprise platform; maintain the rate at which customers purchase and renew subscriptions to our enterprise platform offerings; continue to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and successfully compete with other companies. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual periods as any indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. We may be unable to rapidly and efficiently adjust our cost structure in response to significant revenue declines, which could adversely affect our operating results. We recognize substantially all of our revenue ratably over the term of our subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, perpetual licenses ratably over an expected period of benefit and, as a result, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize substantially all of our revenue ratably over the terms of our subscriptions with customers, which generally occurs over a one-year period and, for our perpetual licenses, over a five-year expected period of benefit. As a result, a substantial portion of the revenue that we report in each period will be derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to agreements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new sales or renewals in any one period may not be immediately reflected in our revenue results for that period. This decline, however, will negatively affect our revenue in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions and potential changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. This also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue growth through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers generally will be recognized over the term of the applicable agreement. We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet our customers growing needs. As usage of our enterprise platform grows, and as customers expand in size or expand the number of IT assets or IP addresses under their subscriptions, we may need to devote additional resources to improving our technology architecture, integrating with third-party systems and maintaining infrastructure performance. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our sales and marketing headcount, as well as grow our third-party channel partner network, to serve our growing customer base. If we are unable to scale our business appropriately, it could reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to customers, resulting in decreased sales to new customers, lower renewal rates by existing customers or the issuance of service credits or requested refunds, each of which could hurt our revenue growth and our reputation. Even if we are able to upgrade our systems and expand our personnel, any such expansion will be expensive and complex, requiring management time and attention. We could also face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our infrastructure. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding our information technology systems. We cannot be sure that the expansion and improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all. These efforts may reduce revenue and our margins and adversely impact our financial results. If our enterprise platform offerings do not interoperate with our customers network and security infrastructure or with third-party products, websites or services, our results of operations may be harmed. Our enterprise platform offerings, Tenable.io and Tenable.sc, must interoperate with our customers existing network and security infrastructure. These complex systems are developed, delivered and maintained by the customer and a myriad of vendors and service providers. As a result, the components of our customers infrastructure have different specifications, rapidly evolve, utilize multiple protocol standards, include multiple versions and generations of products and may be highly customized. We must be able to interoperate and provide our security offerings to customers with highly complex and customized networks, which requires careful planning and execution between our customers, our customer support teams and our channel partners. Further, when new or updated elements of our customers infrastructure or new industry standards or protocols, such as HTTP/2, are introduced, we may have to update or enhance our cloud platform and our other solutions to allow us to continue to provide service to customers. Our competitors or other vendors may refuse to work with us to allow their products to interoperate with our solutions, which could make it difficult for our cloud platform to function properly in customer networks that include these third-party products. We may not deliver or maintain interoperability quickly or cost-effectively, or at all. These efforts require capital investment and engineering resources. If we fail to maintain compatibility of our cloud platform and our other solutions with our customers network and security infrastructures, our customers may not be able to fully utilize our solutions, and we may, among other consequences, lose or fail to increase our market share and experience reduced demand for our services, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents If our solutions fail to detect vulnerabilities or incorrectly detect vulnerabilities, or if they contain undetected errors or defects, our brand and reputation could be harmed. If our solutions fail to detect vulnerabilities in our customers cybersecurity infrastructure, or if our solutions fail to identify new and increasingly complex methods of cyberattacks, our business and reputation may suffer. There is no guarantee that our solutions will detect all vulnerabilities, especially in light of the rapidly changing security landscape to which we must respond. Additionally, our solutions may falsely detect vulnerabilities or threats that do not actually exist. For example, our solutions rely on information provided by an active community of users who contribute new exploits, attacks and vulnerabilities. If the information from these third parties is inaccurate, the potential for false indications of security vulnerabilities increases. These false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our offerings and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products and could result in negative publicity, loss of customers and sales and increased costs to remedy any problem. Our solutions may also contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced these errors or defects in the past in connection with new solutions and product upgrades and we expect that these errors or defects will be found from time to time in the future in new or enhanced solutions after commercial release. Defects may cause our solutions to be vulnerable to attacks, cause them to fail to detect vulnerabilities, or temporarily interrupt customers networking traffic. Any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our solutions may damage our customers business and could hurt our reputation. If our solutions fail to detect vulnerabilities for any reason, we may incur significant costs, the attention of our key personnel could be diverted, our customers may delay or withhold payment to us or elect not to renew or other significant customer relations problems may arise. We may also be subject to liability claims for damages related to errors or defects in our solutions. A material liability claim or other occurrence that harms our reputation or decreases market acceptance of our solutions may harm our business and operating results. An actual or perceived security breach or theft of the sensitive data of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our solutions, could adversely affect the markets perception of our brand and our offerings and subject us to legal claims. Our future quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly due to a wide range of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict. Our revenue and results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: the level of demand for our enterprise platform; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by existing competitors or new entrants into our market, and changes in pricing for solutions offered by us or our competitors; the rate of renewal of subscriptions, and extent of expansion of IT assets under such subscriptions, with existing customers; the mix of customers licensing our products on a subscription basis as compared to a perpetual license; large customers failing to renew their subscriptions; the size, timing and terms of our subscription agreements with new customers; our ability to interoperate our solutions with our customers network and security infrastructure; the timing and growth of our business, in particular through our hiring of new employees and international expansion; network outages, security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions with our solutions; changes in the growth rate of the markets in which we compete; the length of the license term, amount prepaid and other material terms of subscriptions to our solutions sold during a period; customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new developments or enhancements by us or our competitors or otherwise; changes in customers budgets; seasonal variations related to sales and marketing and other activities, such as expenses related to our customers; our ability to increase, retain and incentivize the channel partners that market and sell our solutions; 13 Table of Contents our ability to integrate our solutions with our ecosystem partners technology; our brand and reputation; the timing of our adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies and the impact on our results of operations; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; our ability to hire, train and maintain our direct sales force; unforeseen litigation and intellectual property infringement; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; and general economic and political conditions, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers operate. Any one of these or other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K , or the cumulative effect of some of these factors, may result in fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, meaning that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, results of operations and cash flows may not necessarily be indicative of our future performance and may cause us to miss our guidance and analyst expectations and may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we have historically experienced seasonality in entering into agreements with customers. We typically enter into a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the third and fourth quarters. The increase in customer agreements in the third quarter is primarily attributable to U.S. government and related agencies, and the increase in the fourth quarter is primarily attributable to large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry. We expect that seasonality will continue to affect our operating results in the future and may reduce our ability to predict cash flow and optimize the timing of our operating expenses. We face intense competition. The market for cybersecurity solutions is fragmented, intensely competitive and constantly evolving. We compete with a range of established and emerging cybersecurity software and services vendors, as well as homegrown solutions. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect the competitive environment to remain intense going forward. Our competitors include: vulnerability management and assessment vendors, including Qualys and Rapid7; diversified security software and services vendors, including IBM; endpoint security vendors with nascent vulnerability assessment capabilities, including Tanium and CrowdStrike; and providers of point solutions that compete with some of the features present in our solutions. We also compete against internally-developed efforts that often use open source solutions. Some of our actual and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand and business user recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios and broader global distribution and presence. In addition, our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. Larger and more established companies may focus on cybersecurity and could directly compete with us. Smaller companies could also launch new products and services that we do not offer and that could gain market acceptance quickly. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, attacks by (or indicators of compromise that identify) cyber bad actors, technologies, standards or customer requirements. With the introduction of new technologies, the evolution of our offerings and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and can bundle competing products and services with other software offerings. As a result, customers may choose a bundled product offering from our competitors, even if individual products have more limited functionality than our solutions. These competitors may also offer their products at a lower price as part of this larger sale, which could increase pricing pressure on our offerings and cause the average sales price for our offerings to decline. These larger competitors are also often in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending, and will therefore not be as susceptible to economic downturns. One component of our enterprise platform involves assessing Cyber Exposure in a public cloud environment. We are dependent upon the public cloud providers to allow our solutions to access their cloud offerings. If one or more cloud providers elected to offer exclusively their own cloud security product or otherwise eliminate the ability of our solutions to access their cloud on behalf of our customers, our business and financial results could be harmed. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources and products and services offerings in the markets we address. In addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources. As a result of such relationships and acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. If we do not continue to innovate and offer solutions that address the dynamic cybersecurity landscape, we may not remain competitive. The cybersecurity market is characterized by very rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our success also depends on continued innovation to provide features that make our solutions responsive to the cybersecurity landscape. While we continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to ensure that our solutions continue to address the cyber security risks that our customers face, the introduction of solutions and services embodying new technologies could render our existing solutions or services obsolete or less attractive to customers. In addition, developing new solutions and product enhancements is expensive and time-consuming, and there is no assurance that such activities will result in significant cost savings, revenue or other expected benefits. For example, we plan to release a new product, Tenable.io Lumin, and there can be no assurance that product will offer the benefits we expect or generate customer interest. We may also face delays or uncertainty in our release timing for Tenable.io Lumin that may be costly or reduce the benefits of Lumin. If we spend significant time and effort on research and development and are unable to generate an adequate return on our investment, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Further, we may not be able to successfully anticipate or adapt to changing technology or customer requirements or the dynamic threat landscape on a timely basis, or at all, which would impair our ability to execute on our business strategy. Our business and results of operations depend substantially on our customers renewing their subscriptions with us and expanding the number of IT assets or IP addresses under their subscriptions. Any decline in our customer renewals, terminations or failure to convince our customers to expand their use of subscription offerings would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our subscription offerings are term-based and a majority of our subscription contracts entered into in 2018 and 2017 were for one year in duration. In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that a high percentage of our customers renew their subscriptions with us when the existing subscription term expires, and renew on the same or more favorable terms. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and we may not be able to accurately predict customer renewal rates. In addition, the growth of our business depends in part on our customers expanding their use of subscription offerings and related services. Historically, some of our customers have elected not to renew their subscriptions with us for a variety of reasons, including as a result of changes in their strategic IT priorities, budgets, costs and, in some instances, due to competing solutions. Our retention rate may also decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of other factors, including our customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our software, the increase in the contract value of subscription and support contracts from new customers, the effectiveness of our customer support services, our pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, global economic conditions, and the other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K . Additionally, many of our customers, including certain top customers, have the right to terminate their agreements with us for convenience and for other reasons. We cannot assure you that customers will maintain their agreements with us, renew subscriptions or increase their usage of our software. If our customers do not maintain or renew their subscriptions or renew on less favorable terms, or if we are unable to expand our customers use of our software, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, while customers are typically invoiced in advance, including multi-year contracts, and our contracts generally do not provide for refunds during the subscription or maintenance period, a small number of customers could take the position that provisions in their customer agreements give them the right to terminate their agreement with us, or allege a material breach of their agreement with us, due to or in connection with the sale of our common stock. Early termination of these customer agreements for these reasons would generally only allow us to retain fees already paid by the customer for services rendered prior to the termination. Termination of these agreements, or allegations that we 15 Table of Contents have breached one of these agreements with them, could decrease our customer revenue and increase legal and administrative costs. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers are dependent in part upon the reliable performance of our solutions and network infrastructure. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints and fraud or cybersecurity attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. Prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with adding capacity or upgrading our network architecture when required may cause our service quality to suffer. Problems with the reliability or security of our systems could harm our reputation. Damage to our reputation and the cost of remedying these problems could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Any disruptions or other performance problems with our solutions could harm our reputation and business and may damage our customers businesses. Interruptions in our service delivery might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability and cause customers to not renew their purchases of our solutions. We must maintain and enhance our brand. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our enterprise platform and attracting new customers. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue and, even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our solutions. We rely on third parties to maintain and operate certain elements of our network infrastructure. We utilize data centers located in North America, Europe and Asia to operate and maintain certain elements of our own network infrastructure. Some elements of this complex system are operated by third parties that we do not control and that could require significant time to replace. We expect this dependence on third parties to continue. For example, Tenable.io is hosted on Amazon Web Services, or AWS, which provides us with computing and storage capacity. Interruptions in our systems or the third-party systems on which we rely, particularly AWS, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or other factors, could affect the security or availability of our solutions, network infrastructure and website. Our existing data center facilities and third-party hosting providers have no obligations to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and certain of the agreements governing these relationships may be terminated by either party at any time, with no or limited notice. For example, our agreement with AWS allows AWS to terminate the agreement with 30 days written notice. Although we expect that we could receive similar services from other third parties, if any of our arrangements with third parties, including AWS, are terminated, we could experience interruptions on our platform and in our ability to make our platform available to customers, as well as downtime, delays and additional expenses in arranging alternative cloud infrastructure services. It is possible that our customers and potential customers would hold us accountable for any breach of security affecting third parties infrastructure. We may incur significant liability from those customers and from third parties with respect to any such breach. Because our agreement with AWS limits their liability for damages, we may not be able to recover a material portion of our liabilities to our customers and third parties from AWS in the event of any breach affecting AWS systems. If we continue to grow, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We have recently experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. In particular, we grew from 751 employees as of December 31, 2016 to 984 employees as of December 31, 2017 and to 1,252 employees as of December 31, 2018 . We have also significantly increased the size of our customer base over the last several years. 16 Table of Contents We anticipate that we will continue to significantly expand our operations and headcount in the near term. Our growth has placed, and future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage our growth could result in difficulty or delays in deploying our solutions and services to customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties. Any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Our ability to forecast our future operating results is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, our business could suffer and the trading price of our stock may decline. Organizations may be reluctant to purchase our enterprise platform offerings that are cloud-based due to the actual or perceived vulnerability of cloud solutions. Some organizations, including those in the defense industry and highly regulated industries such as healthcare and financial services, have historically been reluctant to use cloud-based solutions for cybersecurity because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the reliability or security of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. If we or other software companies with cloud-based offerings experience security incidents, breaches of customer data, disruptions in service delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based solutions as a whole may be negatively impacted, which in turn would negatively impact our revenue and our growth prospects. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable. The timing of sales of our offerings is difficult to forecast because of the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle, particularly with large enterprises and with respect to certain of our solutions. We sell our solutions primarily to IT departments that are managing a growing set of user and compliance demands, which has increased the complexity of customer requirements to be met and confirmed during the sales cycle and prolonged our sales cycle. Our average sales cycle with an enterprise customer is approximately four months. Further, the length of time that potential customers devote to their testing and evaluation, contract negotiation and budgeting processes varies significantly, depending on the size of the organization and nature of the product or service under consideration. In addition, we might devote substantial time and effort to a particular unsuccessful sales effort, and as a result, we could lose other sales opportunities or incur expenses that are not offset by an increase in revenue, which could harm our business. Regulatory, legislative or self-regulatory standard developments regarding privacy and data security matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We, along with a significant number of our customers, are subject to laws, rules, regulations, and industry standards related to data privacy and cyber security, and restrictions or technological requirements regarding the collection, use, storage, protection, retention or transfer of data. In addition to current privacy and data security regulations currently in force in the jurisdictions where we operate, the GDPR came into force in May 2018. The GDPR contains numerous requirements and changes from prior European Union, or EU, law, including more robust obligations on data processors and data controllers, greater rights for data subjects, and heavier documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs. Specifically, the GDPR introduced numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control over personal data by data subjects, such as the right to be forgotten", increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements, and increased fines. In particular, under the GDPR, fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the annual global revenue of the noncompliant company, whichever is greater, could be imposed for violations of certain of the GDPRs requirements. The GDPR requirements apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, including employee information. We have an internal data privacy function that oversees and supervises our compliance with European data protection regulations. In the United States and globally, governments and agencies have adopted, and could in the future adopt, modify, apply or enforce laws, policies, regulations, and standards covering data subject privacy, data security, technologies such as cookies that are used to collect, store and/or process data, marketing online, the use of data to inform marketing, the taxation of products and services, unfair and deceptive practices and the collection, including the 17 Table of Contents collection of information, use, processing, transfer, storage and/or disclosure of data associated with unique individual internet users. We may be subject directly or via contract to such laws, policies, regulations, and standards. New regulation or legislative actions regarding data privacy and security, together with applicable industry standards, may increase the costs of doing business and could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cash flows. While we have taken steps to mitigate the impact on us, such as implementing standard contractual clauses as appropriate and self-certifying under the EU-US Privacy Shield, the efficacy and longevity of these mechanisms remains uncertain. Potential or actual legal proceeding could lead to one or both of these mechanisms being declared invalid. Further, local data protection authorities general may have different interpretations of the GDPR, leading to potential inconsistencies amongst various EU states. If we are investigated by a European data protection authority, we may face fines and other penalties. Any such investigation or charges by European data protection authorities could have a negative effect on our existing business and on our ability to attract and retain new customers. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with, could expose us to significant penalties for non-compliance, can delay or impede the development or adoption of our products and services, reduce the overall demand for our services, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention and subject us to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. We rely on our third-party channel partner network of distributors and resellers to generate a substantial amount of our revenue. Our success is dependent in part upon establishing and maintaining relationships with a variety of channel partners that we utilize to extend our geographic reach and market penetration. We use a two-tiered, indirect fulfillment model whereby we sell our products and services to our distributors, which in turn sell to our resellers, which then sell to our end users, which we call customers. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on this two-tiered sales model in order to help facilitate sales of our offerings as part of larger purchases in the United States and to grow our business internationally. In 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , we derived 88% , 83% and 80% , respectively, of our revenue from subscriptions and perpetual licenses sold through channel partners, and the percentage of revenue derived from channel partners may increase in future periods. Ingram Micro, Inc., a distributor, accounted for 46% , 45% and 42% of our revenue in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and 46% of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and 51% as of December 31, 2017 . Our agreements with our channel partners, including our agreement with Ingram Micro, are non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or offering competing solutions, and some of our channel partners may have more established relationships with our competitors. Similarly, our channel partners have no obligations to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and certain of the agreements governing these relationships may be terminated by either party at any time, with no or limited notice. For example, our agreement with Ingram Micro allows Ingram Micro to terminate the agreement in their discretion upon 30 days written notice to us. If our channel partners choose to place greater emphasis on products of their own or those offered by our competitors or a result of an acquisition, competitive factors or other reasons do not continue to market and sell our solutions in an effective manner or at all, our ability to grow our business and sell our solutions, particularly in key international markets, may be adversely affected. In addition, our failure to recruit additional channel partners, or any reduction or delay in their sales of our solutions and professional services or conflicts between channel sales and our direct sales and marketing activities may harm our results of operations. Finally, even if we are successful, our relationships with channel partners may not result in greater customer usage of our solutions and professional services or increased revenue. A portion of our revenue is generated from subscriptions and perpetual licenses sold to domestic governmental entities, foreign governmental entities and other heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A portion of our revenue is generated from subscriptions and perpetual licenses sold to governmental entities in the United States. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services, energy, insurance and healthcare industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our enterprise platform. Selling licenses to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Governmental demand and payment for our enterprise platform may also be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our enterprise platform. In addition, governmental 18 Table of Contents entities have the authority to terminate contracts at any time for the convenience of the government, which creates risk regarding revenue anticipated under our existing government contracts. Further, governmental and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard customer arrangements, including terms that can lead to those customers obtaining broader rights in our solutions than would be expected under a standard commercial contract and terms that can allow for early termination. The U.S. government will be able to terminate any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions would generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and would make us liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Contracts with governmental and highly regulated entities may also include preferential pricing terms. In the United States, federal government agencies may promulgate regulations, and the President may issue executive orders, requiring federal contractors to adhere to different or additional requirements after a contract is signed. If we do not meet applicable requirements of law or contract, we could be subject to significant liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet these requirements, the additional costs associated with providing our enterprise platform to government and highly regulated customers could harm our operating results. Moreover, changes in the underlying statutory and regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide them access to our enterprise platform and to grow or maintain our customer base. In addition, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks, including risks specific to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with U.S. government entities, as well as subcontracts with higher-tier contractors. As a result, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or the FAR. Under the FAR, certain types of contracts require pricing that is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. In connection with our U.S. government contracts, we may be subject to government audits and review of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with contract terms, procurement regulations, and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to contract termination or downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations, could be assessed civil or criminal penalties, or could be debarred or suspended from obtaining future government contracts for a specified period of time. Any such termination, adjustment, sanction, debarment or suspension could have an adverse effect on our business. In the course of providing our solutions and professional services to governmental entities, our employees and those of our channel partners may be exposed to sensitive government information. Any failure by us or our channel partners to safeguard and maintain the confidentiality of such information could subject us to liability and reputational harm, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. We may need to reduce our prices or change our pricing model to remain competitive. Subscriptions and perpetual licenses to our enterprise platform are generally priced based on the number of IP addresses that can be monitored, or the total IT assets that can be monitored. We expect that we may need to change our pricing from time to time. As competitors introduce new products that compete with ours or reduce their prices, we may be unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers based on our historical pricing. We also must determine the appropriate price to enable us to compete effectively internationally. Moreover, mid- to large-size enterprises may demand substantial price discounts as part of the negotiation of sales contracts. As a result, we may be required or choose to reduce our prices or change our pricing model, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our pricing model subjects us to various challenges that could make it difficult for us to derive expected value from our customers. Our enterprise platform offerings are generally priced based on the number of IT assets or IP addresses that a customer chooses to monitor. As the amount of IT assets or IP addresses within our customers organizations grows, we may face pressure from our customers regarding our pricing, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. 19 Table of Contents Our subscription agreements and perpetual licenses generally provide that we can audit our customers use of our offerings to ensure compliance with the terms of such agreement or license and monitor an increase in IT assets and IP addresses being monitored. However, a customer may resist or refuse to allow us to audit their usage, in which case we may have to pursue legal recourse to enforce our rights under the agreement or license, which would require us to spend money, distract management and potentially adversely affect our relationship with our customers and users. If our enterprise platform offerings do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. We spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop and enhance our enterprise platform offerings to meet our customers rapidly evolving demands. In addition, we invest in efforts to continue to add capabilities to our existing products and enable the continued detection of new network vulnerabilities. We typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell our new and enhanced offerings. Therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced offerings, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. For example, if Tenable.io does not garner widespread market adoption and implementation, our operating results and competitive position could suffer. Further, we may make enhancements to our offerings that our customers do not like, find useful or agree with. We may also discontinue certain features, begin to charge for certain features that are currently free or increase fees for any of our features or usage of our offerings. Our new offerings or enhancements and changes to our existing offerings could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: failure to predict market demand accurately in terms of functionality and to supply offerings that meets this demand in a timely fashion; defects, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; delays in releasing our new offerings or enhancements to our existing offerings to the market; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our customers, causing them to delay IT purchases; and reluctance of customers to purchase cloud-based offerings. If our new or enhanced offerings do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, and our revenue will be diminished. The adverse effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we will have incurred in connection with the new or enhanced offerings. Our strategy of offering and deploying our solutions in the cloud, on-premises environments or using a hybrid approach causes us to incur increased expenses and may pose challenges to our business. We offer and sell our enterprise platform for use in the cloud, on-premises environments or using a hybrid approach using the customers own infrastructure. Our cloud offering enables our customers to eliminate the burden of provisioning and maintaining infrastructure and to scale their usage of our solutions quickly, while our on-premises offering allows for the customers complete control over data security and software infrastructure. Historically, our solutions were developed in the context of the on-premises offering, and we have less operating experience offering and selling subscriptions to our solutions via our cloud offering. Although a substantial majority of our revenue has historically been generated from customers using our solutions on an on-premises basis, our customers are increasingly adopting our cloud offering. We expect that our customers will continue to move to our cloud offering and that it will become more central to our distribution model. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars and our gross margin to decrease to the extent that revenue from our cloud-based subscriptions increases as a percentage of revenue, although our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period. To support both on-premises environments and cloud instances of our product, our support team must be trained on and learn multiple environments in which our solution is deployed, which is more expensive than supporting only a cloud offering. Moreover, we must engineer our software for an on-premises environment, cloud offering and hybrid installation, which we expect will cause us additional research and development expense that may impact our operating results. As more of our customers transition to the cloud, we may be subject to additional competitive pressures, which may harm our business. We are 20 Table of Contents directing a significant portion of our financial and operating resources to implement a robust and secure cloud offering for our customers, but even if we continue to make these investments, we may be unsuccessful in growing or implementing our cloud offering in a way that competes successfully against our current and future competitors and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our customers increased usage of our cloud-based offerings requires us to continually improve our computer network and infrastructure to avoid service interruptions or slower system performance. As usage of our cloud-based offerings grows and as customers use them for more complicated applications, increased assets and with increased data requirements, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our platform architecture and our infrastructure in order to maintain the performance of our cloud offering. Any failure or delays in our computer systems could cause service interruptions or slower system performance. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our enterprise platform to customers. These performance issues could result in lost customer opportunities and lower renewal rates, any of which could hurt our revenue growth, customer loyalty and reputation. A component of our growth strategy is dependent on our continued international expansion, which adds complexity to our operations. We market and sell our solutions and professional services throughout the world and have personnel in many parts of the world. International operations generated 33% and 31% of our revenue in 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Our growth strategy is dependent, in part, on our continued international expansion. We expect to conduct a significant amount of our business with organizations that are located outside the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia. We cannot assure that our expansion efforts into international markets will be successful in creating further demand for our solutions and professional services outside of the United States or in effectively selling our solutions and professional services in the international markets that we enter. Our current international operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including: increased management, infrastructure and legal costs associated with having international operations; reliance on channel partners; trade and foreign exchange restrictions; economic or political instability in foreign markets, including instability related to the United Kingdoms referendum in June 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to data privacy, data protection and data security regulations; difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and potentially reorganizing foreign operations; the uncertainty and limitation of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations; costs of compliance with U.S. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the FCPA, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or provide our solutions in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; requirements to comply with foreign privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations and the risks and costs of noncompliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, and irregularities in, financial statements; the potential for political unrest, acts of terrorism, hostilities or war; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; costs associated with language localization of our solutions; and costs of compliance with multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. 21 Table of Contents Our business, including the sales of our solutions and professional services by us and our channel partners, may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country and change from time to time. Our failure, or the failure by our channel partners, to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. Further, in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to comply with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents have complied, or will comply, with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our solutions and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully manage the challenges of international expansion and operations, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel, including senior management and our engineering, professional services, sales and technology professionals. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our senior management team and our highly skilled team members, including our sales personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers or key employees. From time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team resulting from the termination or departure of our executive officers and key employees. Our senior management and key employees are employed on an at-will basis, which means that they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. Our ability to successfully pursue our growth strategy also depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain our personnel. Competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including sales personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers, is intense. Our recruiting efforts focus on elite universities and our primary recruiting competition are well-known, high-paying firms. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We must effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our Cyber Exposure solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We plan to continue expanding our sales force and our third-party channel partner network of distributors and resellers both domestically and internationally; however, there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining talented sales personnel or strategic partners or that any new sales personnel or strategic partners will be able to achieve productivity in a reasonable period of time or at all. We also plan to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs, including through electronic marketing campaigns and trade event sponsorship and participation. All of these efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources and our business will be harmed if our efforts do not generate a correspondingly significant increase in revenue. We must offer high-quality support. Our customers rely on our personnel for support of our enterprise platform. High-quality support is important for the renewal of our agreements with existing customers and to our existing customers expanding the number of IP addresses or IT assets under their subscriptions. The importance of high-quality support will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell new software to existing and new customers would suffer and our reputation with existing or potential customers would be harmed. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. In order to grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with strategic partners to provide broader customer coverage and solution delivery capabilities. We depend on partnerships with market 22 Table of Contents leading technology companies to maintain and expand our Cyber Exposure ecosystem by integrating third party data into our platform. For example, we developed our Industrial Security solution in partnership with Siemens. Identifying partners, and negotiating and documenting relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. Our agreements with our strategic partners generally are non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or offering competing solutions. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our services. If our partners choose to place greater emphasis on products of their own or those offered by our competitors or do not effectively market and sell our product, our ability to grow our business and sell software and professional services may be adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions of our partners by our competitors could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our solutions by potential customers. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results may suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased customer usage of our solutions or increased revenue. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our corporate headquarters are located in Columbia, Maryland. The area around Washington, D.C. could be subject to terrorist attacks. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services and sales activities. In the event of a major hurricane, earthquake or catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyberattack, war or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our software development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. We have in the past acquired products and technologies from other parties, and we may choose to expand our current business by acquiring additional businesses or technologies in the future. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following: an acquisition may negatively affect our financial results because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition; we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company; we may encounter difficulties in, or may be unable to, successfully sell any acquired solutions; an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have stronger market positions; our use of cash to pay for an acquisition would limit other potential uses for our cash; and if we incur debt to fund such acquisition, such debt may subject us to material restrictions on our ability to conduct our business as well as financial maintenance covenants. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. In addition, we may only be able to conduct limited due diligence on an acquired companys operations. Following an acquisition, we may be subject to unforeseen liabilities arising from an acquired companys past or present operations and these liabilities may be greater than the warranty and indemnity limitations that we negotiate. 23 Table of Contents Any unforeseen liability that is greater than these warranty and indemnity limitations could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, we intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our product, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank includes restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, and any debt financing that we secure in the future could have similar restrictive covenants. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be adversely affected. The nature of our business requires the application of complex accounting rules and regulations. Significant changes in current principles will affect our consolidated financial statements and changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and harm our results of operations. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex and subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. In addition, many companies accounting disclosures are being subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Further, the accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could impact our financial statements. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect or financial reporting standards or interpretations change, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include the determination of the estimated economic life of perpetual licenses for revenue recognition, the estimated period of benefit for deferred commissions, useful lives of long-lived assets, the valuation of stock-based compensation, including the estimated underlying fair value of our common stock prior to our IPO, the incremental borrowing rate for operating leases, and the valuation of deferred tax assets. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we regularly monitor our compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a result of new standards, changes to existing standards and changes in their interpretation, we might be required to change our accounting policies, alter our operational policies and implement new or enhance existing systems so that they reflect new or amended financial reporting standards, or we may be required to restate our published financial statements. Such changes to existing standards or changes in their interpretation may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position and profit, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and operating profit target, which may negatively impact our financial results. 24 Table of Contents Our operating results may be negatively affected if we are required to pay additional state sales tax, value added, or other transaction taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to all or a portion of past or future sales. We currently collect and remit sales and use, value added and other transaction taxes in certain of the jurisdictions where we do business based on our assessment of the amount of taxes owed by us in such jurisdictions. However, in some jurisdictions in which we do business, we do not believe that we owe such taxes, and therefore we currently do not collect and remit such taxes in those jurisdictions or record contingent tax liabilities in respect of those jurisdictions. Further, due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable tax laws in various jurisdictions, we may be exposed to sales and use, value added or other transaction tax liability. A successful assertion that we are required to pay additional taxes in connection with sales of our solutions, or the imposition of new laws or regulations requiring the payment of additional taxes, would create increased costs and administrative burdens for us. If we are subject to additional taxes and determine to offset such increased costs by collecting and remitting sales taxes from our customers, or otherwise passing those costs through to our customers, companies may be discouraged from using our solutions. Any increased tax burden may decrease our ability or willingness to compete in relatively burdensome tax jurisdictions, result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. As of December 31, 2018 we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $85.9 million , $24.1 million , and $102.3 million , respectively, available to offset future taxable income, which begin to expire in 2030. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs before they expire. In addition, under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of pre-change NOLs that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a companys ability to use NOLs if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. Based upon an analysis as of December 31, 2017, we determined that we do not expect these limitations to impair our ability to use our NOLs prior to expiration. However, if changes in our ownership occur in the future, our ability to use our NOLs may be further limited. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs, even if we achieve profitability. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate for financial accounting purposes are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. To forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, our assessment of the need for valuation allowances, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 22, 2017, U.S. Federal tax reform was enacted with the signing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA. Notable provisions of the TCJA included significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact that the TCJA may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on us and on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could materially impact our financial results. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-corruption laws, anti-bribery and similar laws with respect to our domestic and international operations, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal and/or civil liability and materially harm our business and reputation. We are subject to the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and other anti-corruption laws in countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit our company from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. We use third-party law firms, accountants, and other representatives for regulatory compliance, sales, and other purposes in several countries. We sell directly and indirectly, via third-party representatives, to the U.S. and non-U.S. government sectors, and our employees and third-party representatives interact with government officials. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party representatives, our employees, contractors, and other agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension and/or debarment from contracting with certain persons, the loss of export privileges, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could further harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, as an issuer of securities, we also are subject to the accounting and internal controls provisions of the FCPA. These provisions require us to maintain accurate books and records and a system of internal controls sufficient to detect and prevent corrupt conduct. Failure to abide by these provisions may have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls and economic and trade sanctions that could impair our ability to conduct business in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The United States and other countries maintain and administer export and import laws and regulations. Our products are subject to U.S. export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. We are required to comply with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges; fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. In addition, changes in our solutions, or changes in applicable export or import laws and regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our products in international markets or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations or economic or trade sanctions, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such laws and regulations could also result in decreased use of our products, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential customers. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our solutions. Various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our solutions or could limit our customers ability to implement our solutions in those countries. Encrypted products and the underlying technology may also be subject to export control restrictions. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports of encryption solutions, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our solutions, could harm our international sales and adversely affect our revenue. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding the export and import of our solutions, including with respect to new solutions or changes in existing solutions, may create delays in the introduction of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our solutions globally or, in some cases, could prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments, entities or persons altogether. 26 Table of Contents Moreover, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions programs prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to countries, governments and persons that are subject to U.S. economic embargoes and trade sanctions. Any violations of such economic embargoes and trade sanction regulations could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. Risks Related to Government Regulation, Data Collection and Intellectual Property Our business could be adversely affected if our employees cannot obtain and maintain required security clearances or we cannot establish and maintain a required facility security clearance. Certain U.S. government contracts may require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and may require us to maintain a facility security clearance, to comply with Department of Defense, or DoD, requirements. The DoD has strict security clearance requirements for personnel who perform work in support of classified programs. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain their clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate an existing contract or decide not to renew the contract upon its expiration. To the extent we are not able to obtain or maintain a facility security clearance, we may not be able to bid on or win new classified contracts, and existing contracts requiring a facility security clearance could be terminated. Any failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property. To safeguard these rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual protections in the United States and other jurisdictions, all of which provide only limited protection and may not now or in the future provide us with a competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2018 , we had 14 issued patents and five patent applications pending in the United States relating to our technology. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any patent applications, that patents that issue from such applications will give us the protection that we seek or that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from our pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection and may not be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Obtaining and enforcing software patents in the United States is becoming increasingly challenging. Any patents we have obtained or may obtain in the future may be found to be invalid or unenforceable in light of recent and future changes in the law. We have registered the Tenable, Nessus and Tenable.io names and our Tenable logo in the United States and certain other countries. We have registrations and/or pending applications for additional marks in the United States; however, we cannot assure you that any future trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. While we have copyrights in our software we do not typically register such copyrights with the Copyright Office. This failure to register the copyrights in our software may preclude us from obtaining statutory damages for infringement under certain circumstances. We also license software from third parties for integration into our software, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that such third parties will maintain such software or continue to make it available. In order to protect our unpatented proprietary technologies and processes, we rely on trade secret laws and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners, vendors and others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use them. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights, or develop similar technologies and processes. Further, several agreements may give customers limited rights to access portions of our proprietary source code, and the contractual provisions that we enter into may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets and intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. To the extent that we expand our activities outside of the United States, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our solutions 27 Table of Contents and proprietary information may increase. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our solutions, technologies or intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps that we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, solutions or services, or that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Furthermore, effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our software is available or where we have employees or independent contractors. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet and software-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own significant numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. The litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenue and against which our patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. In the past, we have been subject to allegations of patent infringement that were unsuccessful, and we expect in the future to be subject to claims that we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed other parties intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater market visibility or face increasing competition, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims, which is not uncommon with respect to enterprise software companies. We may in the future be subject to claims that employees or contractors, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of our competitors or other parties. To the extent that intellectual property claims are made against our customers based on their usage of our technology, we have certain obligations to indemnify and defend such customers from those claims. The term of our contractual indemnity provisions often survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments, defense costs or damage claims from contractual breach could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be very time-consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate, could divert our managements attention and other resources and could result in adverse publicity. These claims could also subject us to making substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments, and other costs or damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. These claims could also result in our having to stop making, selling, offering for sale, or using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights. We might be required to seek a license for the third-party intellectual property rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available to us, we may be required to pay significant upfront fees, milestones or royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. Moreover, to the extent we only have a license to any intellectual property used in our solutions, there may be no guarantee of continued access to such intellectual property, including on reasonable terms. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from accessing such third-party intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our software or cease business activities covered by such intellectual property, and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Portions of our solutions utilize open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Our software contains software made available by third parties under so-called open source licenses. From time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that such open source software infringes the claimants intellectual property rights. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming that what we believe to be licensed open source software infringes their intellectual property rights. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. In addition, certain open source licenses require that source code for software programs that are subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to such open source software continue to be licensed under the same terms. Further, certain open source licenses also include a provision that if we enforce any patents against the software programs that are subject to the license, we would lose the license to such software. If we were to fail to comply with the terms of such open source software licenses, such failures could result in costly litigation, lead to negative public relations or require that we quickly find replacement software which may be difficult to accomplish in a timely manner. Although we monitor our use of open source software in an effort both to comply with the terms of the applicable open source licenses and to avoid subjecting our software to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our product or operate our business. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our software and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine or distribute our software with open source software in a certain manner. In the event that portions of our software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all, or a portion of, that software or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our software, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our product. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and depends on a number of factors, including those described in this Risk Factors section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our operating results; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; industry or financial analyst or investor reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; failure of industry or financial analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; 29 Table of Contents developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property rights or our solutions, or third-party proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; any major changes in our management or our board of directors; general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. Recently, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory and market conditions, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention. An active public trading market may not continue to develop or be sustained. Prior to our initial public offering, or IPO, in July 2018, there was no public market or active private market for our common stock. Following our IPO, an active public trading market may not continue to develop or be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. As a new public company, we may be slow to attract research coverage and the analysts who publish information about our common stock will have had relatively little experience with our company, which could affect their ability to accurately forecast our results and make it more likely that we fail to meet their estimates. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. In addition, the stock prices of many companies in the technology industry have declined significantly after those companies have failed to meet, or significantly exceed, the financial guidance publicly announced by the companies or the expectations of analysts. If our financial results fail to meet, or exceed, our announced guidance or the expectations of analysts or public investors, analysts could downgrade our common stock or publish unfavorable research about us. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities and make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. Upon the closing of our IPO, the 12,535,000 shares sold in the offering became freely tradable , and all the remaining shares of common stock outstanding at the time of our IPO became available for sale in the public market in January 2019 following the expiration of lock-up agreements between our stockholders and the underwriters for the IPO . Additionally, stockholders holding a substantial majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock have the right, subject to various conditions and limitations, to require us to file one or more registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares of our common stock in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If the offer and sale of these shares are registered, they will be freely tradable without restriction 30 Table of Contents under the Securities Act. Shares of common stock sold under such registration statements can be freely sold in the public market. In the event such registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of common stock are sold in the public market, such sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering the issuance of shares of common stock subject to options or other equity awards issued or reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans. Shares registered under this registration statement on Form S-8 are available for sale in the public market subject to vesting arrangements and exercise of options and the restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act in the case of our affiliates. The issuance of additional stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our equity incentive plan or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, in the future we may issue common stock or other securities convertible into shares of our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment, our equity incentive plan or otherwise. The number of new shares of our common stock issued in connection with raising additional capital could constitute a material portion of the then outstanding shares of our common stock, which could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions, including the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with the interests of other stockholders. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert managements attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting and corporate governance requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Compliance with these rules and regulations increases our legal and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increases demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations and maintain effective disclosure