Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Form 10-Q, and (2) our consolidated financial statements, related notes and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, or the 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2021. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. Such risks and uncertainties may be amplified by the COVID-19 pandemic and its potential impact on our business and the global economy. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are a leading provider of Cyber Exposure solutions. Cyber Exposure is a discipline for managing, measuring and comparing cybersecurity risk in the digital era. Our enterprise platform offerings include Tenable.io, which is our cloud-delivered software as a service, or SaaS, offering and Tenable.sc, which is our on-premises offering, both of which provide organizations with a risk-based view of traditional and modern attack surfaces. These applications are designed with views, workflows and dashboards to deliver a complete and continuous view of all assets, both known and previously unknown, and any associated vulnerabilities, internal and regulatory compliance violations, misconfigurations and other cybersecurity issues, prioritize these issues for remediation based on risk assessment and predictive analytics, and provide insightful remediation guidance. Our enterprise platform offerings also include Tenable.ot, which is our on-premises solution that provides threat detection and mitigation, asset tracking, vulnerability management, and configuration control capabilities to protect operational technology, or OT, environments, including industrial networks. Tenable.ot is sold as a stand-alone solution and integrates with Tenable.io and Tenable.sc. Our enterprise platform offerings are primarily sold on a subscription basis with a one-year term. Our subscription terms are generally not longer than three years. These offerings are typically prepaid in advance. To a lesser extent, we recognize revenue ratably from perpetual licenses and from the related ongoing maintenance. We sell and market our products and services through our field sales force that works closely with our channel partners, which includes a network of distributors and resellers, in developing sales opportunities. We use a two-tiered channel model whereby we sell our enterprise platform offerings to our distributors, which in turn sell to our resellers, which then sell to end users, which we call customers. Many of our enterprise platform customers initially use either our free or paid version of Nessus, one of the most widely deployed vulnerability assessment solutions in the cybersecurity industry. Nessus, which is the technology that underpins our enterprise platform offerings, is designed to quickly and accurately identify security vulnerabilities, configuration issues and malware. Our free version of Nessus, Nessus Essentials, allows for vulnerability assessment over a limited number of IP addresses. We believe many of our Nessus customers begin with Nessus Essentials and subsequently upgrade to Nessus Professional, the paid version of Nessus; however, we expect a significant number of users to continue to use Nessus Essentials. 17 Ta b le of Contents There have been more than 2.5 million cumulative unique downloads, which refers to an individual email address utilized to register for the use of Nessus Essentials. We believe that the cumulative number of unique downloads of the free version of Nessus is representative of our brand recognition among cybersecurity professionals and that continued growth in this number suggests broader awareness among potential customers. While we believe that the cumulative number of unique downloads may provide an indication of the growth and scale of our thought leadership and brand awareness, we do not expect this metric to necessarily correlate to future revenue growth opportunities, and we do not consider this metric a measure of our operating performance. Revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was $123.2 million and $102.6 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 20%. Our recurring revenue, which includes revenue from subscription arrangements for software and cloud-based solutions and maintenance associated with perpetual licenses, represented 94%, and 93% of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was $7.7 million and $23.0 million, respectively, as we continue to invest in our business and market opportunity. Our cash flows from operating activities were $38.6 million and $4.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. COVID-19 Update We continue to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers, partners, employees and service providers. While in the near term we may experience reductions in our billing and revenue growth rates, we are proactively managing our expenditures, including reductions of non-critical and discretionary expenses such as travel, meeting and facility usage costs, while preserving strategic investments in sales capacity and research and development. This has and may continue to result in improved leverage related to gross margins as well as sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business and operations will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain. We expect to incur additional costs when we resume business-related travel and employees return to our office locations, the timing and extent of which remains unknown. For additional information on the potential effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition and results of operations, see the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section below and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. Financial Highlights Below are our key financial results: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2021 2020 Revenue $ 123,189 $ 102,648 Loss from operations (5,802) (21,672) Net loss (7,748) (22,977) Net loss per share, basic and diluted (0.07) (0.23) Net cash provided by operating activities 38,625 4,492 Purchases of property and equipment (1,061) (614) Factors Affecting Our Performance Product Leadership Our enterprise platform offerings provide visibility into the broadest range of traditional and modern IT assets across cloud and on-premises environments. We are intensely focused on continued innovation and ongoing development of our enterprise platform offerings that empower organizations to understand and reduce their cyber exposure. Additionally, we continue to expand the capabilities of our Nessus products, specifically as they relate to the ability to scan for and detect the rapidly expanding volume of vulnerabilities. 18 Ta b le of Contents We intend to continue to invest in our engineering capabilities and marketing activities to maintain our position in the highly-competitive market for cybersecurity solutions. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments to drive increased customer adoption and usage. New Enterprise Platform Customer Acquisition We believe that our customer base provides a significant opportunity to expand sales of our enterprise platform offerings and that our ability to continue to grow the number of enterprise platform customers will increase future opportunities for renewals and follow-on sales. We believe that we have significant room to increase our market share. We expect to grow our enterprise platform customers by continuing to expand our sales organization and leveraging our channel partner network, which we believe will allow us to identify new enterprise customers, enter new markets, including internationally, as well as to convert more of our existing Nessus Professional customers to enterprise platform customers. We will continue to invest in our partner network and sales and marketing capability in order to grow domestically and internationally. Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers Our enterprise platform offerings utilize IT asset-based or IP address-based pricing models. Once enterprise customers have licensed our platform offerings, they typically seek broader coverage over their traditional IT assets, including networking infrastructure, desktops and on-premises servers. As customers launch new applications or migrate existing applications to the cloud and deploy web applications, containers, IoT and OT, they often increase the scope of their subscriptions and/or add additional perpetual licenses to our enterprise platforms. We are also focused on upselling customers from Nessus Professional to our enterprise platform offerings. Nessus Professional customers are typically organizations or independent security consultants that use Nessus Professional for a single vulnerability assessment at a point in time. We seek to convert these customers to our enterprise platform offerings, which provide continuous visibility and insights into their attack surface, as their needs develop. Further, we plan to expand existing platform capabilities and launch new products, which we believe will drive new product purchases and follow-on purchases over time, thereby contributing to customer renewals. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to drive additional sales to existing customers, and we expect to invest in sales and marketing and customer success personnel and activities to achieve additional revenue growth from existing customers. However, our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, competition, pricing, current economic conditions or overall changes in our and our clients' spending levels. We evaluate our ability to expand sales with existing customers by assessing our dollar-based net expansion rate on a last twelve months, or LTM, basis. We have historically calculated our dollar-based net expansion rate as follows: Denominator: To calculate our dollar-based net expansion rate as of the end of a reporting period, we first determine the annual recurring revenue, or ARR, from all active subscriptions and maintenance from perpetual licenses as of the last day of the same reporting period in the prior year. This represents recurring payments that we expect to receive in the next 12-month period from the cohort of customers that existed on the last day of the same reporting period in the prior year. Numerator: We measure the ARR for that same cohort of customers representing all subscriptions and maintenance from perpetual licenses based on customer orders as of the end of the reporting period. We calculate dollar-based net expansion rate by dividing the numerator by the denominator. Our dollar-based net expansion rate for the three-months ended March 31, 2021 exceeded 110% on an LTM basis, which was impacted by a more moderate pace of IT asset and IP address expansion in the current economic 19 Ta b le of Contents environment, and declined from the comparable prior year period. Our dollar-based net expansion rate may decline further or fluctuate from quarter to quarter if our existing customers choose to reduce or delay technology spending in response to economic conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, or as a result of a number of other factors, including our existing customers' satisfaction with our solutions, the pricing of our solutions and the ability of competing solutions and the pricing thereof. We have recently utilized an alternative dollar-based net expansion rate to assess our ability to expand sales with existing customers and evaluate the performance of our sales team. This alternative dollar-based net expansion rate is based on the methodology described above, but excludes the annual contract value of prior period multiyear sales from ARR in the numerator and the denominator of the calculation. We believe this methodology more closely aligns with the renewal and expansion goals established for our sales team, because it measures net expansion by customers with contracts up for renewal during the period. Applying this methodology would have increased the dollar-based net expansion rate by three to five percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020, September 30, 2020, December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021. Investing in Business Growth Since our founding, we have invested significantly in growing our business. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our sales team, expand brand and Cyber Exposure awareness and optimize our channel partner network. We also intend to continue to invest in our research and development team to further our technological leadership position in Cyber Exposure and enhance the functionality of our solutions. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing and research and development teams will occur in advance of experiencing the benefits from such investments, so it may be difficult for us to determine if we are efficiently allocating resources in those areas. We may also explore acquisitions of businesses, technology and/or development personnel that will expand and enhance the functionality of our platform offerings. These investment activities could increase our net losses over the short term if our revenue growth does not increase at higher rates. However, we expect that these investments will ultimately benefit our results of operations. Key Operating and Financial Metrics To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating and financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our operating and financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by management for financial and operational decision-making. We present these operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to assist investors in seeing our operating and financial performance using a management view and because we believe that these measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core operating and financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Calculated Current Billings We use the non-GAAP measure of calculated current billings, which we believe is a key metric to measure our periodic performance. Given that most of our customers pay in advance, we typically recognize a majority of the related revenue ratably over time. We use calculated current billings to measure and monitor our ability to provide our business with the working capital generated by upfront payments from our customers. Calculated current billings consists of revenue recognized in a period plus the change in current deferred revenue in the corresponding period. We believe that calculated current billings, which excludes deferred revenue for periods beyond twelve months in a customers contractual term, more closely correlates with annual contract value. Variability in total 20 Ta b le of Contents billings, depending on the timing of large multi-year contracts and the preference for annual billing versus multi-year upfront billing, may distort growth in one period over another. While we believe that calculated current billings provides valuable insight into the cash that will be generated from sales of our subscriptions, this metric may vary from period-to-period for a number of reasons, and therefore has a number of limitations as a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year comparative measure. Calculated current billings in any one period may be impacted by the overall timing of sales, including early renewals, as well as the timing and amount of multi-year prepaid contracts, which could favorably or unfavorably impact year-over-year comparisons. For example, an increasing number of large sales transactions, for which the timing has and will continue to vary, may occur in quarters subsequent to or in advance of those that we anticipate. Our calculation of calculated current billings may be different from other companies that report similar financial measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider calculated current billings along with revenue and our other GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of revenue, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to calculated current billings: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Revenue $ 123,189 $ 102,648 Add: Deferred revenue (current), end of period 325,113 270,916 Less: Deferred revenue (current), beginning of period (328,819) (274,348) Calculated current billings $ 119,483 $ 99,216 Free Cash Flow We use the non-GAAP measure of free cash flow, which we define as GAAP net cash flows from operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure of the cash (if any) that is available, after purchases of property and equipment, for investment in our business and to make acquisitions. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash. Our use of free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results under GAAP. First, free cash flow is not a substitute for net cash flows from operating activities. Second, other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider free cash flow along with net cash provided by operating activities and our other GAAP financial measures. 21 Ta b le of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to free cash flow: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 38,625 $ 4,492 Purchases of property and equipment (1,061) (614) Free cash flow (1) $ 37,564 $ 3,878 _______________ (1) Free cash flow for the periods presented was impacted by: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2021 2020 Employee stock purchase plan activity $ (5.0) $ (3.7) Acquisition-related expenses (1.7) (0.7) Tax payment on intra-entity asset transfer 2.8 Capital expenditures related to new headquarters (0.2) (0.1) Free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was benefited by approximately $5 million as a result of the accelerated timing of payments for insurance and professional fees in the three months ended December 31, 2020. Enterprise Platform Customers We believe that our customer base provides a significant opportunity to expand sales of our enterprise platform offerings. The following tables summarize key components of our customer base: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Change (%) Number of new enterprise platform customers added in period (1) 331 319 4% _______________ (1) We define an enterprise platform customer as a customer that has licensed Tenable.io, Tenable.sc or Tenable.ot for an annual amount of $5,000 or greater. New enterprise platform customers represent new customer logos during the periods presented and do not include customer conversions from Nessus Professional to enterprise platforms. At March 31, 2021 2020 Change (%) Number of customers with $100,000 and greater in annual contract value at end of period 866 665 30% Non-GAAP Income (Loss) from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We use non-GAAP income (loss) from operations along with non-GAAP operating margin as key indicators of our financial performance. We define these non-GAAP financial measures as their respective GAAP measures, excluding the effects of stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Acquisition-related expenses include transaction expenses and costs related to the transfer of acquired intellectual property. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our core operating results over multiple periods. There are a number of limitations related to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures as compared to GAAP loss from operations and operating margin, including that non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP operating margin exclude stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. 22 Ta b le of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of loss from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, and operating margin, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP operating margin: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 Loss from operations $ (5,802) $ (21,672) Stock-based compensation 16,952 13,035 Acquisition-related expenses 2,158 339 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 579 579 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 13,887 $ (7,719) Operating margin (5) % (21) % Non-GAAP operating margin 11 % (8) % Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) and Non-GAAP Earnings (Loss) Per Share We use non-GAAP net income (loss), which excludes the effect of stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as the related tax impact, and the tax impact of intra-entity asset transfers resulting from the internal restructuring of legal entities, to calculate non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide important information to management and investors because they facilitate comparisons of our core operating results over multiple periods. 23 Ta b le of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss and net loss per share, the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except for per share amounts) 2021 2020 Net loss $ (7,748) $ (22,977) Stock-based compensation 16,952 13,035 Tax impact of stock-based compensation (1) (4) 198 Acquisition-related expenses (2) 2,158 339 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (2) 579 579 Tax impact of intra-entity asset transfer (3) 2,808 Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 14,745 $ (8,826) Net loss per share, diluted $ (0.07) $ (0.23) Stock-based compensation 0.16 0.13 Tax impact of stock-based compensation (1) Acquisition-related expenses (2) 0.02 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (2) 0.01 Tax impact of intra-entity asset transfer (3) 0.03 Adjustment to diluted earnings per share (4) (0.01) Non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share, diluted $ 0.13 $ (0.09) Weighted-average shares used to compute GAAP net loss per share, diluted 104,531 98,855 Weighted-average shares used to compute non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share, diluted (5) 113,934 98,855 ________________ (1) The tax impact of stock-based compensation is based on the tax treatment for the applicable tax jurisdictions. (2) The tax impacts of acquisition-related expenses and amortization of acquired intangible assets are not material. (3) The tax impact of the intra-entity asset transfer is related to the internal restructuring of Indegy, resulting in a current tax payment based on the applicable Israeli tax rate. (4) An adjustment may be necessary to reconcile GAAP net loss per share, which excludes potentially dilutive shares, to non-GAAP earnings per share, which includes potentially dilutive shares. (5) In periods in which there is a non-GAAP net loss, basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding are the same, as potentially dilutive shares would be antidilutive. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from subscription arrangements for our software and cloud-based solutions, perpetual licenses, maintenance associated with perpetual licenses and professional services. Our subscription arrangements generally have annual or multi-year contractual terms to use our software or cloud-based solutions, including ongoing software updates during the contractual period. Revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term given the critical utility provided by the ongoing updates that are released throughout the contract period. Our perpetual licenses are generally sold with one or more years of maintenance, which includes ongoing software updates. Given the critical utility provided by the ongoing software updates and updated ability to identify network 24 Ta b le of Contents vulnerabilities included in maintenance, we combine the perpetual license and the maintenance into a single performance obligation. Perpetual license arrangements generally contain a material right related to the customers ability to renew maintenance at a price that is less than the initial license fee. We apply a practical alternative to allocating a portion of the transaction price to the material right performance obligation and estimate a hypothetical transaction price which includes fees for expected maintenance renewals based on the estimated economic life of perpetual license contracts. We allocate the transaction price between the cybersecurity subscription provided in the initial contract and the material right related to expected contract renewals based on the hypothetical transaction price. We recognize the amount allocated to the combined license and maintenance performance obligation over the initial contractual period, which is generally one year. We recognize the amount allocated to the material right over the expected maintenance renewal period, which begins at the end of the initial contractual term and is generally four years. We have estimated the five-year economic life of perpetual license contracts based on historical contract attrition, expected renewal periods, the lifecycle of our technology and other factors. This estimate may change over time. Professional services and other revenue is primarily comprised of advisory services and training related to the deployment and optimization of our products. These services do not result in significant customization of our products. Professional services and other revenue is recognized as the services are performed. We have historically experienced, and expect in the future to experience, seasonality in entering into agreements with customers. We typically enter into a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the third and fourth quarters of the year. The increase in customer agreements in the third quarter is primarily attributable to U.S. government and related agencies, and the increase in the fourth quarter is primarily attributable to large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry. The ratable nature of our subscription revenue makes this seasonality less apparent in our overall financial results. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes personnel costs related to our technical support group that provides assistance to customers, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes, stock-based compensation and any severance. Cost of revenue also includes cloud infrastructure costs, the costs related to professional services and training, depreciation, amortization of acquired and developed technology and allocated overhead costs, which consist of information technology and facilities. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our cloud-based platform and customer support team as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the timing of our acquisition of new customers and our renewals of and follow-on sales to existing customers, the costs associated with operating our cloud-based platform, the extent to which we expand our customer support team and the extent to which we can increase the efficiency of our technology and infrastructure through technological improvements. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars but our gross margin to decrease over time, as we expect revenue from our cloud-based subscriptions to increase as a percentage of revenue. However, our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of all of these factors, particularly as it relates to cloud infrastructure costs. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, 25 Ta b le of Contents bonuses, payroll taxes, stock-based compensation and any severance. Operating expenses also include depreciation and amortization as well as allocated overhead costs, including IT and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists of personnel costs, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel and entertainment, expenses for conferences and events and allocated overhead costs. We capitalize sales commissions, including related fringe benefit costs, and recognize the expense over an estimated period of benefit, which ranges between three and four years for subscription arrangements and five years for perpetual license arrangements. Sales commissions on contract renewals are capitalized and amortized ratably over the contract term, with the exception of contracts with renewal periods that are one year or less, in which case the incremental costs are expensed as incurred. Sales commissions on professional services arrangements are expensed as incurred as the contractual periods of these arrangements are generally less than one year. We intend to continue to make investments in our sales and marketing teams to grow revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our global customer base. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars annually and to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. However, as our revenue increases, we expect our sales and marketing expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term. Our sales and marketing expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses, including sales commissions, which may fluctuate depending on the mix of sales and related expense recognition. Research and Development Research and development expense consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products, travel and entertainment, consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development expense supports our efforts to continue to add capabilities to our existing products and enable the continued detection of new network vulnerabilities. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase annually in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud-based platform. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include travel and entertainment, professional fees, insurance, allocated overhead and acquisition-related costs. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase annually in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest (Expense) Income, Net Interest (expense) income, net consists primarily of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and interest expense in connection with our credit facility, including unused commitment fees and letter of credit fees. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses. 26 Ta b le of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and the related withholding taxes on sales with customers. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. The provision for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was impacted by discrete items, including expense from the restructuring of our research and development operations in Israel and benefits, primarily related to a Supreme Court decision in India on the taxability of software license payments to nonresidents and the associated withholding taxes. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our consolidated results of operations: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Revenue $ 123,189 $ 102,648 Cost of revenue (1) 22,073 18,701 Gross profit 101,116 83,947 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 58,635 59,855 Research and development (1) 26,838 26,831 General and administrative (1) 21,445 18,933 Total operating expenses 106,918 105,619 Loss from operations (5,802) (21,672) Interest (expense) income, net (28) 734 Other expense, net (66) (960) Loss before income taxes (5,896) (21,898) Provision for income taxes 1,852 1,079 Net loss $ (7,748) $ (22,977) _______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Cost of revenue $ 937 $ 747 Sales and marketing 6,296 4,496 Research and development 4,156 2,948 General and administrative 5,563 4,844 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 16,952 $ 13,035 27 Ta b le of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue The following table presents the increase in revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 ($) (%) Subscription revenue $ 107,402 $ 86,390 $ 21,012 24 % Perpetual license and maintenance revenue 12,405 13,419 (1,014) (8) % Professional services and other revenue 3,382 2,839 543 19 % Revenue $ 123,189 $ 102,648 $ 20,541 20 % U.S. revenue increased $9.6 million, or 15%. International revenue increased $10.9 million, or 28%. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 ($) (%) Cost of revenue $ 22,073 $ 18,701 $ 3,372 18 % Gross profit 101,116 83,947 17,169 20 % Gross margin 82 % 82 % The increase in cost of revenue of $3.4 million was primarily due to: a $2.3 million increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs; a $1.0 million increase in personnel costs primarily due to support for cloud-based products; and a $0.2 million increase in professional fees; partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in travel and meeting costs. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 ($) (%) Sales and marketing $ 58,635 $ 59,855 $ (1,220) (2) % The decrease in sales and marketing expense of $1.2 million was primarily due to: a $3.5 million decrease in selling expenses, including a $3.9 million decrease in travel and meeting costs; and a $0.3 million decrease in allocated overhead costs; partially offset by a $1.4 million increase in sales commissions, due to increased sales and the amortization of deferred commissions; a $0.7 million increase in personnel costs; and a $0.2 million increase in expenses for demand generation programs, including advertising, sponsorships and brand awareness efforts. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 ($) (%) Research and development $ 26,838 $ 26,831 $ 7 % 28 Ta b le of Contents Research and development expense remained flat, primarily due to: a $1.3 million increase in personnel costs, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation; and a $0.4 million increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs; offset by a $1.2 million decrease in travel and meeting costs; and a $0.4 million decrease in allocated overhead costs, primarily facilities costs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 ($) (%) General and administrative $ 21,445 $ 18,933 $ 2,512 13 % The increase in general and administrative expense of $2.5 million was primarily due to: a $1.8 million increase in acquisition-related expenses; and a $1.4 million increase in personnel costs, including a $0.7 million increase in stock-based compensation; partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in professional fees; a $0.3 million decrease in travel and meeting costs; and a $0.2 million decrease in allocated overhead costs, primarily facilities costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2021, we had $228.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, which consisted of bank deposits and money market funds, and $111.9 million of short-term investments, which consisted of commercial paper, U.S. Treasury and agency obligations and supranational bonds. Since our inception and prior to our IPO, we financed our operations through cash provided by operations, including payments received from customers using our software products and services, and we did not raise any primary institutional capital. The proceeds of our Series A and Series B redeemable convertible preferred stock financings were used to repurchase shares of capital stock from former stockholders. We have generated significant operating losses as reflected by our accumulated deficit of $615.6 million at March 31, 2021. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance and, to a lesser extent, multi-year in advance. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred revenue. Deferred revenue consists primarily of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions and perpetual licenses, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. At March 31, 2021, we had deferred revenue of $428.9 million, of which $325.1 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development activities, investments in infrastructure, including the build-out of our new headquarters, and acquiring complementary businesses and technology. We expect to continue incurring operating losses in the near term. Even though we generated positive cash flows from operations and free cash flow in the three months ended March 31, 2021, we may not be able to sustain these cash flows in the near term. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support further infrastructure and research and development efforts, the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in new and existing office spaces, the expansion of sales, marketing and international operating activities, the timing of our introduction of new product capabilities and enhancements of our platform and the continuing market acceptance of our platform. 29 Ta b le of Contents In April 2021, we acquired Alsid SAS, a leader in active directory security, for a total purchase price of $98 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in other complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek equity or debt financing. In the event that financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. The full extent to which the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business and operations will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, such as the duration of the outbreak, the duration and effect of business disruptions, the effectiveness and widespread adoption of a vaccine, both domestically and globally, and the duration and ultimate effectiveness of the travel restrictions, quarantines, social distancing requirements and business closures in the United States and other countries to contain and treat the disease. We also do not yet know the full extent of potential impacts on our business and operations, or those of our partners and customers, or the global economy as a whole. Accordingly, the current results and financial conditions discussed herein may not be indicative of our future operating results and trends. See the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. Credit Facility In July 2020, we entered into a $45.0 million senior secured facility, or the 2020 Credit Facility, with Silicon Valley Bank in connection with the expiration of our $25.0 million revolving credit facility. The 2020 Credit Facility bears interest at either LIBOR plus 2%, with a 1% LIBOR floor, or the base rate plus 1%, and terminates on July 24, 2022. A commitment fee of 0.35% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears based on the unused portion. The obligations under the 2020 Credit Facility are secured by a lien on our tangible and intangible property except intellectual property and certain subsidiaries and by a pledge of all of the equity interests of our material direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and 65% of each class of capital stock of any material first-tier foreign subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions. The 2020 Credit Facility includes a $45.0 million uncommitted expansion, as well as a $10.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit and a swingline subfacility of up to $10.0 million, and has a financial covenant requiring a minimum consolidated quick ratio of at least 1.5:1.0 on the last day of any quarter. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, there were no amounts outstanding under our 2020 Credit Facility. At March 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the financial covenant and our borrowing capacity was reduced by $5.5 million related to standby letters of credit. We do not currently intend to draw on the 2020 Credit Facility. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 38,625 $ 4,492 Net cash provided by investing activities 578 18,730 Net cash provided by financing activities 12,058 11,281 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,068) (1,097) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 50,193 $ 33,406 Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by operating activities was $38.6 million, which primarily consisted of our $7.7 million loss, adjusted for stock-based compensation expense of $17.0 million and depreciation and amortization of $2.8 million, as well as a net cash inflow of $26.3 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily related to a $32.5 million decrease in accounts receivable due to collections from customers and a $5.7 million decrease in prepaid expenses. This 30 Ta b le of Contents inflow was partially offset by a $8.7 million decrease in accrued compensation, including $5.0 million related to employee stock purchase plan activity, and a $5.6 million decrease in deferred revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $4.5 million, which primarily consisted of our $23.0 million loss, adjusted for stock-based compensation expense of $13.0 million and depreciation and amortization of $2.7 million, as well as a net cash inflow of $11.2 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $20.8 million decrease in accounts receivable due to collections from customers, partially offset by a $13.3 million decrease in accrued compensation, including $3.7 million related to employee stock purchase plan activity and quarterly bonuses and commissions earned in the fourth quarter of 2019 that were paid in the first quarter of 2020. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities decreased by $18.2 million, primarily due to a $17.7 million decrease in sales and maturities, net of purchases, of short-term investments in commercial paper, U.S. Treasury and agency obligations, corporate bonds and supranational bonds, and a $0.4 million increase in purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $0.8 million, primarily due to a $0.7 million increase in proceeds from stock issued in connection with the employee stock purchase plan. Contractual Obligations At March 31, 2021, there were no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2021, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.