Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Form 10-Q, and (2) our consolidated financial statements, related notes and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, or the 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2022. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. Such risks and uncertainties may be amplified by the COVID-19 pandemic and its potential impact on our business and the global economy. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are a leading provider of Cyber Exposure solutions. Cyber Exposure is a discipline for managing, measuring and comparing cybersecurity risk in the digital era. We have continued to expand and diversify our platform offerings from traditional vulnerability management (VM) solutions, which include Tenable.sc and Nessus, to our cloud exposure solutions, which include Tenable.ep, Tenable.io, Tenable.cs, Tenable Web Scanning, or Tenable.io WAS, Tenable.ad and Tenable.ot. Our platform offerings provide broad visibility into security issues such as vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, internal and regulatory compliance violations and other indicators of the state of an organizations security across IT infrastructure and applications, cloud environments, DevOps environments, Active Directory and Identity environments, and Industrial IoT and OT environments. We also provide deep analytics to help organizations score, trend and compare their cyber exposure over time, and communicate cyber risk in business terms to make better strategic decisions. Our platform offerings integrate and analyze data from our native collectors alongside IT asset, vulnerability and threat data from third-party systems and applications to prioritize security issues for remediation and focus an organizations resources based on risk and business criticality. Our platform offerings are primarily sold on a subscription basis with a one-year term. Our subscription terms are generally not longer than three years. These offerings are typically prepaid in advance. To a lesser extent, we recognize revenue ratably from perpetual licenses and from the related ongoing maintenance. We sell and market our products and services through our field sales force that works closely with our channel partners, which includes a network of distributors and resellers, in developing sales opportunities. We use a two-tiered channel model whereby we sell our enterprise platform offerings to our distributors, which in turn sell to our resellers, which then sell to end users, which we call customers. Many of our enterprise platform customers initially use either our free or paid version of Nessus, one of the most widely deployed vulnerability assessment solutions in the cybersecurity industry. Nessus, which is sold on a stand-alone basis and is the technology that underpins our enterprise platform offerings, is designed to quickly and accurately identify security vulnerabilities, configuration issues and malware. Our free version of Nessus, Nessus Essentials, allows for vulnerability assessment over a limited number of IP addresses. We believe many of our Nessus customers begin with Nessus Essentials and subsequently upgrade to Nessus Professional, the paid version of Nessus; however, we expect a significant number of users to continue to use Nessus Essentials. 20 Table of Contents Revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $159.4 million and $123.2 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 29%. Our recurring revenue, which includes revenue from subscription arrangements for software and cloud-based solutions and maintenance associated with perpetual licenses, represented 95% and 94% of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $24.5 million and $7.7 million, respectively. Our cash flow from operating activities was $32.9 million and $38.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. COVID-19 Update We have not seen a significant adverse impact on our business from the pandemic as of March 31, 2022. We continue to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers, partners, employees and service providers. Financial Highlights Below are our key financial results: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2022 2021 Revenue $ 159,368 $ 123,189 Loss from operations (17,548) (5,802) Net loss (24,506) (7,748) Net loss per share, basic and diluted (0.22) (0.07) Net cash provided by operating activities 32,862 38,625 Purchases of property and equipment (4,811) (1,061) Factors Affecting Our Performance Product Leadership Our enterprise platform offerings provide visibility into the broadest range of traditional and modern IT assets across cloud and on-premises environments. We are intensely focused on continued innovation and ongoing development of our enterprise platform offerings that empower organizations to understand and reduce their Cyber Exposure. Additionally, we continue to expand the capabilities of our Nessus products, specifically as they relate to the ability to scan for and detect the rapidly expanding volume of vulnerabilities. We intend to continue to invest in our engineering capabilities and marketing activities to maintain our position in the highly-competitive market for cybersecurity solutions. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments to drive increased customer adoption and usage. New Enterprise Platform Customer Acquisition We believe that our customer base provides a significant opportunity to expand sales of our enterprise platform offerings and that our ability to continue to grow the number of enterprise platform customers will increase future opportunities for renewals and follow-on sales. We believe that we have significant room to increase our market share. We expect to grow our enterprise platform customers by continuing to expand our sales organization and leveraging our channel partner network, which we believe will allow us to identify new enterprise customers, enter new markets, including internationally, as well as to convert more of our existing Nessus Professional customers to enterprise platform customers. We will continue to invest in our partner network and sales and marketing capability in order to grow domestically and internationally. 21 Table of Contents Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers Our enterprise platform offerings utilize IT asset-based or IP address-based pricing models. Once enterprise customers have licensed our platform offerings, they typically seek broader coverage over their traditional IT assets, including networking infrastructure, desktops and on-premises servers. As customers launch new applications or migrate existing applications to the cloud and deploy web applications, containers, IoT and OT, they often increase the scope of their subscriptions and/or add additional perpetual licenses to our enterprise platforms. We are also focused on upselling customers from Nessus Professional to our enterprise platform offerings. Nessus Professional customers are typically organizations or independent security consultants that use Nessus Professional for a single vulnerability assessment at a point in time. We seek to convert these customers to our enterprise platform offerings, which provide continuous visibility and insights into their attack surface, as their needs develop. Further, we plan to expand existing platform capabilities and launch new products, which we believe will drive new product purchases and follow-on purchases over time, thereby contributing to customer renewals. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to drive additional sales to existing customers, and we expect to invest in sales and marketing and customer success personnel and activities to achieve additional revenue growth from existing customers. However, our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, competition, pricing, current economic conditions or overall changes in our and our clients' spending levels. We evaluate our ability to expand sales with existing customers by assessing our dollar-based net expansion rate on a last twelve months, or LTM, basis. We have historically calculated our dollar-based net expansion rate as follows: Denominator: To calculate our dollar-based net expansion rate as of the end of a reporting period, we first determine the annual recurring revenue, or ARR, from all active subscriptions and maintenance from perpetual licenses as of the last day of the same reporting period in the prior year. This represents recurring payments that we expect to receive in the next 12-month period from the cohort of customers that existed on the last day of the same reporting period in the prior year. Numerator: We measure the ARR for that same cohort of customers representing all subscriptions and maintenance from perpetual licenses based on customer orders as of the end of the reporting period. We calculate dollar-based net expansion rate by dividing the numerator by the denominator. Our dollar-based net expansion rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 exceeded 110% on an LTM basis. Our dollar-based net expansion rate may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including our existing customers' satisfaction with our solutions, the pricing of our solutions and the ability of competing solutions and the pricing thereof. We also utilize an alternative dollar-based net expansion rate to assess our ability to expand sales with existing customers and evaluate the performance of our sales team. This alternative dollar-based net expansion rate is based on the methodology described above, but excludes the annual contract value of prior period multi-year sales from ARR in the numerator and the denominator of the calculation. We believe this methodology more closely aligns with the renewal and expansion goals established for our sales team, because it measures net expansion by customers with contracts up for renewal during the period. Applying this methodology would have increased the dollar-based net expansion rate by two to three percentage points for each of the fiscal quarters in 2021 and the first fiscal quarter in 2022. Investing in Business Growth Since our founding, we have invested significantly in growing our business. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our sales team, expand brand and Cyber Exposure awareness and optimize our channel partner network. We also intend to continue to invest in our research and development team to further our technological leadership position in Cyber Exposure and enhance the functionality of our solutions. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing and research and development teams will occur in advance of experiencing the benefits from such 22 Table of Contents investments, so it may be difficult for us to determine if we are efficiently allocating resources in those areas. We expect to acquire businesses, technology and/or development personnel that will expand and enhance the functionality of our platform offerings. These investment activities could increase our net losses over the short term if our revenue growth does not increase at higher rates. However, we expect that these investments will ultimately benefit our results of operations. Key Operating and Financial Metrics To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating and financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance the overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our operating and financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by management for financial and operational decision-making. We include these operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to present our operating and financial performance using a management view and because we believe that these measures provide an additional comparison of our core operating and financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Calculated Current Billings We use the non-GAAP measure of calculated current billings, which we believe is a key metric to measure our periodic performance. Given that most of our customers pay in advance, we typically recognize a majority of the related revenue ratably over time. We use calculated current billings to measure and monitor our ability to provide our business with the working capital generated by upfront payments from our customers. Calculated current billings consists of revenue recognized in a period plus the change in current deferred revenue in the corresponding period. We believe that calculated current billings, which excludes deferred revenue for periods beyond twelve months in a customers contractual term, more closely correlates with annual contract value. Variability in total billings, depending on the timing of large multi-year contracts and the preference for annual billing versus multi-year upfront billing, may distort growth in one period over another. While we believe that calculated current billings provides valuable insight into the cash that will be generated from sales of our subscriptions, this metric may vary from period-to-period for a number of reasons, and therefore has a number of limitations as a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year comparative measure. Calculated current billings in any one period may be impacted by the overall timing of sales, including early renewals, as well as the timing and amount of multi-year prepaid contracts, which could favorably or unfavorably impact year-over-year comparisons. For example, an increasing number of large sales transactions, for which the timing has and will continue to vary, may occur in quarters subsequent to or in advance of those that we anticipate. Our calculation of calculated current billings may be different from other companies that report similar financial measures. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider calculated current billings along with revenue and our other GAAP financial results. 23 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of revenue, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to calculated current billings: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Revenue $ 159,368 $ 123,189 Add: Deferred revenue (current), end of period 404,786 325,113 Less: Deferred revenue (current), beginning of period (1) (407,635) (328,819) Calculated current billings $ 156,519 $ 119,483 _______________ (1) Deferred revenue (current), beginning of period for the three months ended March 31, 2022 includes $0.1 million related to Cymptom's deferred revenue at the acquisition date, which is not included in deferred revenue (current) balance at December 31, 2021. Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow We use the non-GAAP measure of free cash flow, which we define as GAAP net cash flows from operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment, which includes capitalized internal use software. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure of the cash (if any) that is available, after purchases of property and equipment, for investment in our business and to make acquisitions. We believe that free cash flow is useful as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash. We also use the non-GAAP measure of unlevered free cash flow, which we define as free cash flow plus cash paid for interest and other financing costs. We believe unlevered free cash flow is useful as a liquidity measure as it measures the cash that is available to invest in our business and meet our current and future financing needs. Our use of free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results under GAAP. First, free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow are not substitutes for net cash flows from operating activities. Second, other companies may calculate free cash flow, unlevered free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow as tools for comparison. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow along with net cash provided by operating activities and our other GAAP financial measures. 24 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 32,862 $ 38,625 Purchases of property and equipment (4,811) (1,061) Free cash flow (1) 28,051 37,564 Cash paid for interest and other financing costs 4,051 71 Unlevered free cash flow (1) $ 32,102 $ 37,635 _______________ (1) Free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow for the periods presented were impacted by: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Employee stock purchase plan activity $ (4.0) $ (5.0) Acquisition-related expenses (0.7) (1.7) Costs related to intra-entity asset transfers (0.8) Tax payment on intra-entity asset transfers (2.7) (2.8) Free cash flow and unlevered free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were benefited by approximately $6 million and $5 million, respectively, as a result of the accelerated timing of payments for insurance, professional fees and rent in prior quarters. Enterprise Platform Customers We believe that our customer base provides a significant opportunity to expand sales of our enterprise platform offerings. The following tables summarize key components of our customer base: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (%) Number of new enterprise platform customers added in period (1) 459 331 39% _______________ (1) We define an enterprise platform customer as a customer that has licensed Tenable.ep, Tenable.io, Tenable.cs, Tenable.ad, Tenable.ot or Tenable.sc for an annual amount of $5,000 or greater. New enterprise platform customers represent new customer logos during the periods presented and do not include customer conversions from Nessus Professional to enterprise platforms. At March 31, 2022 2021 Change (%) Number of customers with $100,000 and greater in annual contract value at end of period 1,112 866 28% Non-GAAP Income from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We use non-GAAP income from operations along with non-GAAP operating margin as key indicators of our financial performance. We define these non-GAAP financial measures as their respective GAAP measures, excluding the effects of stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses, costs related to the intra-entity asset transfers resulting from the internal restructuring of legal entities and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Acquisition-related expenses include transaction expenses and costs related to the intercompany transfer of acquired intellectual property. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our core operating results over multiple periods. There are a number of limitations related to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures as compared to GAAP loss from operations and operating margin, including that non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP 25 Table of Contents operating margin exclude stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. The following table presents a reconciliation of loss from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP income from operations, and operating margin, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP operating margin: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 Loss from operations $ (17,548) $ (5,802) Stock-based compensation 25,398 16,952 Acquisition-related expenses 1,341 2,158 Costs related to intra-entity asset transfers (1) 838 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 2,427 579 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 12,456 $ 13,887 Operating margin (11) % (5) % Non-GAAP operating margin 8 % 11 % ________________ (1) The costs related to the intra-entity asset transfer resulted from our internal restructuring of Cymptom. Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share We use non-GAAP net income, which excludes stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses and amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as the related tax impacts, and the tax impact and related costs of intra-entity asset transfers resulting from the internal restructuring of legal entities as well as deferred income tax benefits recognized in connection with acquisitions, to calculate non-GAAP earnings per share. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide important information because they facilitate comparisons of our core operating results over multiple periods. 26 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss and net loss per share, the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands, except for per share amounts) 2022 2021 Net loss $ (24,506) $ (7,748) Stock-based compensation 25,398 16,952 Tax impact of stock-based compensation (1) 1,066 (4) Acquisition-related expenses (2) 1,341 2,158 Costs related to intra-entity asset transfers (3) 838 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (4) 2,427 579 Tax impact of acquisitions (5) (442) Tax impact of intra-entity asset transfers (6) 843 2,808 Non-GAAP net income $ 6,965 $ 14,745 Net loss per share, diluted $ (0.22) $ (0.07) Stock-based compensation 0.23 0.16 Tax impact of stock-based compensation (1) 0.01 Acquisition-related expenses (2) 0.01 0.02 Costs related to intra-entity asset transfers (3) 0.01 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (4) 0.02 Tax impact of acquisitions (5) (0.01) Tax impact of intra-entity asset transfers (6) 0.01 0.03 Adjustment to diluted earnings per share (7) (0.01) Non-GAAP earnings per share, diluted $ 0.06 $ 0.13 Weighted-average shares used to compute GAAP net loss per share, diluted 109,524 104,531 Weighted-average shares used to compute non-GAAP earnings per share, diluted 117,155 113,934 ________________ (1) The tax impact of stock-based compensation is based on the tax treatment for the applicable tax jurisdictions. (2) The tax impact of acquisition-related expenses is not material. (3) The costs related to the intra-entity asset transfer resulted from our internal restructuring of Cymptom. (4) The tax impact of the amortization of acquired intangible assets is included in the tax impact of acquisitions. (5) The tax impact of acquisitions is related to the deferred tax benefits of the Alsid acquisition. (6) The tax impact of the intra-entity asset transfers are related to current tax payments based on the applicable Israeli tax rates resulting from our internal restructuring of Cymptom and Indegy in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (7) An adjustment to reconcile GAAP net loss per share, which excludes potentially dilutive shares, to non-GAAP earnings per share, which includes potentially dilutive shares. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from subscription arrangements for our software and cloud-based solutions, perpetual licenses, maintenance associated with perpetual licenses and professional services. Our subscription arrangements generally have annual or multi-year contractual terms to use our software or cloud-based solutions, including ongoing software updates during the contractual period. For software subscriptions that are 27 Table of Contents dependent on ongoing software updates and the ability to identify the latest cybersecurity vulnerabilities, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term given the critical utility provided by the ongoing updates that are released through the contract period. When the critical utility of our software does not depend on ongoing updates, we recognize revenue attributable to the license at the time of delivery and the revenue attributable to the maintenance and support ratably over the contract period. Our perpetual licenses are generally sold with one or more years of maintenance, which includes ongoing software updates. Given the critical utility provided by the ongoing software updates and updated ability to identify network vulnerabilities included in maintenance, we combine the perpetual license and the maintenance into a single performance obligation. Perpetual license arrangements generally contain a material right related to the customers ability to renew maintenance at a price that is less than the initial license fee. We apply a practical alternative to allocating a portion of the transaction price to the material right performance obligation and estimate a hypothetical transaction price which includes fees for expected maintenance renewals based on the estimated economic life of perpetual license contracts. We allocate the transaction price between the cybersecurity subscription provided in the initial contract and the material right related to expected contract renewals based on the hypothetical transaction price. We recognize the amount allocated to the combined license and maintenance performance obligation over the initial contractual period, which is generally one year. We recognize the amount allocated to the material right over the expected maintenance renewal period, which begins at the end of the initial contractual term and is generally four years. We have estimated the five-year economic life of perpetual license contracts based on historical contract attrition, expected renewal periods, the lifecycle of our technology and other factors. This estimate may change over time. Professional services and other revenue is primarily comprised of advisory services and training related to the deployment and optimization of our products. These services do not result in significant customization of our products. Professional services and other revenue is recognized as the services are performed. We have historically experienced, and expect in the future to experience, seasonality in entering into agreements with customers. We typically enter into a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the third and fourth quarters of the year. The increase in customer agreements in the third quarter is primarily attributable to U.S. government and related agencies, and the increase in the fourth quarter is primarily attributable to large enterprise account buying patterns typical in the software industry. The ratable nature of our subscription revenue makes this seasonality less apparent in our overall financial results. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue includes personnel costs related to our technical support group that provides assistance to customers, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes, stock-based compensation and any severance. Cost of revenue also includes cloud infrastructure costs, the costs related to professional services and training, depreciation, amortization of acquired and developed technology, hardware costs and allocated overhead costs, which consist of information technology and facilities. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our cloud-based platform and customer support team as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the timing of our acquisition of new customers and our renewals of and follow-on sales to existing customers, the costs associated with operating our cloud-based platform, the extent to which we expand our customer support team and the extent to which we can increase the efficiency of our technology and infrastructure through technological improvements. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars but our gross margin to decrease over time, as we expect revenue from our cloud-based subscriptions to increase as a percentage of revenue. However, our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of all of these factors, particularly as it relates to cloud infrastructure costs. 28 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, payroll taxes, stock-based compensation and any severance. Operating expenses also include depreciation and amortization as well as allocated overhead costs, including IT and facilities costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists of personnel costs, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel and entertainment, expenses for conferences, meetings and events and allocated overhead costs. We capitalize sales commissions, including related fringe benefit costs, and recognize the expense over an estimated period of benefit, which ranges between three and four years for subscription arrangements and five years for perpetual license arrangements. Sales commissions on contract renewals are capitalized and amortized ratably over the contract term, with the exception of contracts with renewal periods that are one year or less, in which case the incremental costs are expensed as incurred. Sales commissions on professional services arrangements are expensed as incurred as the contractual periods of these arrangements are generally less than one year. We intend to continue to make investments in our sales and marketing teams to increase revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our global customer base. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars annually and to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. However, as our revenue increases, we expect our sales and marketing expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term. Our sales and marketing expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses, including sales commissions, which may fluctuate depending on the mix of sales and related expense recognition. Research and Development Research and development expense consists of personnel costs, software used to develop our products, travel and entertainment, consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development expense supports our efforts to continue to add capabilities to our existing products and enable the continued detection of new network vulnerabilities. We expect our research and development expense to continue to increase annually in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud-based platform. However, we expect our research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative departments. Additional expenses include travel and entertainment, professional fees, insurance, allocated overhead, and acquisition-related costs. We expect our general and administrative expense to continue to increase annually in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense in connection with our senior secured term loan facility, or Term Loan, unused commitment fees on our senior secured revolving credit facility, or Revolving Credit Facility, and letter 29 Table of Contents of credit fees. Interest expense, net also includes interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and the related withholding taxes on sales with customers. We have recorded deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been provided, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses. In the three months ended March 31, 2022, the provision for income taxes included $1.7 million of income taxes in foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, $0.8 million of current expense from the restructuring of our research and development operations in Israel, partially offset by $0.4 million of deferred tax benefits related to the Alsid acquisition. Additionally, the provision for income taxes included $0.7 million of discrete expense items, primarily withholding taxes on sales to customers. The provision for the three months ended March 31, 2021 included $1.1 million income taxes in foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and $2.8 million of current expense from the restructuring of our research and development operations in Israel, which were partially offset by $1.2 million of discrete benefits related to a Supreme Court decision in India on the taxability of software license payments to nonresidents and the associated withholding taxes and $1.4 million of other discrete benefits. Additionally, the provision for income taxes included $0.5 million of discrete expense items, primarily withholding taxes on sales to customers. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our consolidated results of operations: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Revenue $ 159,368 $ 123,189 Cost of revenue (1) 34,930 22,073 Gross profit 124,438 101,116 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 81,570 58,635 Research and development (1) 34,290 26,838 General and administrative (1) 26,126 21,445 Total operating expenses 141,986 106,918 Loss from operations (17,548) (5,802) Interest expense, net (3,326) (28) Other expense, net (944) (66) Loss before income taxes (21,818) (5,896) Provision for income taxes 2,688 1,852 Net loss $ (24,506) $ (7,748) _______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 1,513 $ 937 Sales and marketing 10,065 6,296 Research and development 6,463 4,156 General and administrative 7,357 5,563 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 25,398 $ 16,952 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue The following table presents the increase in revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 ($) (%) Subscription revenue $ 142,687 $ 107,402 $ 35,285 33 % Perpetual license and maintenance revenue 12,873 12,405 468 4 % Professional services and other revenue 3,808 3,382 426 13 % Revenue $ 159,368 $ 123,189 $ 36,179 29 % U.S. revenue increased $16.0 million, or 22%. International revenue increased $20.2 million, or 40%. Approximately $1.4 million of revenue recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2022 was due to the early termination of customer contracts in Russia and Belarus as a result of sanctions and export restrictions imposed by the U.S. government. This is revenue that largely would have been recognized over future quarters in 2022. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 ($) (%) Cost of revenue $ 34,930 $ 22,073 $ 12,857 58 % Gross profit 124,438 101,116 23,322 23 % Gross margin 78 % 82 % The increase in cost of revenue of $12.9 million was primarily due to: a $7.9 million increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs; a $1.8 million increase in amortization of intangible assets due to acquired intangible assets; a $1.8 million increase in personnel costs primarily due to support for cloud-based products and increased headcount, including a $0.6 million increase in stock-based compensation; and a $0.5 million increase in professional fees. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 ($) (%) Sales and marketing $ 81,570 $ 58,635 $ 22,935 39 % The increase in sales and marketing expense of $22.9 million was primarily due to: a $13.6 million increase in personnel costs, largely associated with an increase in headcount and a $3.8 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $4.5 million increase in sales commissions, due to increased sales and the amortization of deferred commissions; a $2.5 million increase in expenses for demand generation programs, including advertising, sponsorships and brand awareness efforts; and a $1.9 million increase in selling expenses, including software subscriptions and training programs. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 ($) (%) Research and development $ 34,290 $ 26,838 $ 7,452 28 % The increase in research and development expense of $7.5 million was primarily due to: a $5.6 million increase in personnel costs, largely associated with an increase in headcount and a $2.3 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $1.0 million increase in software subscription and third-party cloud infrastructure costs; and a $0.4 million increase in allocated overhead. 32 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 ($) (%) General and administrative $ 26,126 $ 21,445 $ 4,681 22 % The increase in general and administrative expense of $4.7 million was primarily due to: a $3.3 million increase in personnel costs, largely associated with an increase in headcount and a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $0.8 million increase in intra-entity asset transfer costs related to Cymptom; and a $0.8 million increase in professional fees; partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in acquisition-related expenses. Interest Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 ($) (%) Interest expense, net $ 3,326 $ 28 $ 3,298 11,779 % The increase of $3.3 million in interest expense, net was due to a $3.7 million increase in interest expense primarily related to our Term Loan entered into in July 2021, partially offset by a $0.4 million increase in interest income from our short-term investments. Our term loan has a variable interest rate of 3.27% through July 29, 2022. A one percentage point increase in the rate for the remainder of the year would increase 2022 interest expense by $1.6 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2022, we had $287.5 million of cash and cash equivalents, which consisted of bank deposits and money market funds, and $238.6 million short-term investments, which consisted of commercial paper, asset backed securities, certificates of deposit, U.S. Treasury and agency obligations and corporate and supranational bonds. Since our inception, we have primarily financed our operations through cash provided by operations, including payments received from customers using our software products and services. Prior to our IPO, we did not raise any primary institutional capital, and the proceeds of our Series A and Series B redeemable convertible preferred stock financings were used to repurchase shares of capital stock from former stockholders. We have generated significant operating losses as reflected by our accumulated deficit of $679.0 million at March 31, 2022. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance and, to a lesser extent, multi-years in advance. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included in deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. Deferred revenue consists primarily of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions and perpetual licenses, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. At March 31, 2022, we had deferred revenue of $527.5 million, of which $404.8 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development activities, investments in infrastructure, including the build-out of our new headquarters, and acquiring complementary businesses and technology. In February 2022, we paid $23.0 million in cash to acquire Cymptom. In April 2022, we agreed to acquire Bit Discovery for $44.5 million in cash, and we expect the acquisition to close in the second quarter of 2022. We expect to enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in other complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We expect to continue incurring operating losses in the near term. Even though we generated positive cash flows from operations and unlevered free cash flow in the three months ended March 31, 2022, we may not be able to sustain these cash flows. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund 33 Table of Contents our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support further infrastructure and research and development efforts, the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in new and existing office spaces, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operating activities, any acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, the timing of our introduction of new product capabilities and enhancements of our platform and the continuing market acceptance of our platform. It may be necessary to seek additional equity or debt financing to fund our operating and capital needs. In the event that financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility In July 2021, we entered into a credit agreement, or the Credit Agreement, which is comprised of a $375.0 million Term Loan and a $50.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, with a $15.0 million letter of credit sublimit. The Term Loan bears interest at a rate of 2.75% per annum over LIBOR, subject to a 0.50% floor. The Term Loan will amortize at 1% per annum in equal quarterly installments, starting in March 2022 until the final payment of $350.6 million on the July 7, 2028 maturity date. We may be subject to mandatory Term Loan prepayments related to the excess cash provisions in the Credit Agreement beginning in 2023. The Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at a rate, depending on first lien net leverage, ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% over LIBOR and matures on July 7, 2026. We will pay a commitment fee during the term ranging from 0.25% to 0.375% per annum of the average daily undrawn portion of the revolving commitments based on the first lien net leverage ratio. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Additionally, if at least 35% of the Revolving Credit Facility is drawn on the last day of the quarter, the total net leverage ratio cannot be greater than 5.50 to 1.00. At March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 32,862 $ 38,625 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (33,486) 578 Net cash provided by financing activities 10,528 12,058 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (449) (1,068) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 9,455 $ 50,193 Operating Activities Our largest source of cash provided by operating activities is cash collections from sales of our products and services, as we typically invoice our customers in advance. Our primary uses of cash are employee compensation costs, third-party cloud infrastructure and other software subscription costs, demand generation expenditures and general corporate costs. Investing Activities Net cash from investing activities decreased by $34.1 million, primarily due to $23.0 million of cash paid for the Cymptom acquisition, a $7.4 million increase in purchases, net of sales, of short-term investments and a $3.8 million increase in purchases of property and equipment. 34 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities decreased by $1.5 million, primarily due to a $1.4 million decrease in the proceeds from the exercise of stock options and a $0.9 million principal payment made on our term loan. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in proceeds received from stock issued in connection with our employee stock purchase plan of $0.8 million. Contractual Obligations We have certain contractual obligations for future payments. Refer to Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for our required operating lease payments and Note 9 for our required payments to Amazon Web Services, Inc. for cloud services. At March 31, 2022, there were no other material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.