Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Third Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the third quarter of 2016 : Total revenue was $552 million for the third quarter of 2016 , down 9% from the third quarter of 2015 , with an underlying 13% decrease in product revenue and a 6% decrease in services revenue. Gross margin increased to 53.3% in the third quarter of 2016 from 50.7% in the third quarter of 2015 , driven by increase in both product and services gross margin. Operating income was $89 million in the third quarter of 2016 , compared to $77 million in the third quarter of 2015 , driven by reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses. Net income in the third quarter of 2016 was $49 million , compared to net income of $78 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The Company completed the sale of its marketing applications business. Strategic Overview Teradatas strategy is based around our core belief that analytics and data unleash the potential of great companies. We empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes through scalable analytics on an agile data foundation. Through our focus on leading with business outcomes and a consultative approach, our goal is to serve as a trusted advisor to both the business and technical leaders in our customers organizations. Our business analytics solutions are ideally suited for the worlds largest companies who, have the most complex analytics requirements and the need to scale. 17 Table of Contents Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to this target market through the following portfolio of solutions: Business Analytics Solutions: deliver high-value business outcomes realized by engaging with business users through solution-based selling that leverages analytic consulting and repeatable analytical intellectual property (IP) Ecosystem Architecture Consulting: best-in-class architecture consulting expertise to help customers build optimized analytical ecosystems independent of technology, leveraging both open source and commercial solutions Hybrid Cloud: leading technology and services to deliver an analytic ecosystem deployed in a hybrid cloud architecture, including offerings such as managed cloud, private cloud, public cloud, and on-premises software and hardware. We deliver our solutions on-premises, via the cloud, and "as a service"; offering customers choice in how they deploy a Teradata analytics environment and leverage the power of our solutions. These flexible delivery options are designed to extend our market opportunity. In support of our strategy, we plan to optimize our go-to-market and sales approach to improve effectiveness in demand creation and address new and expanded market opportunities, such as with our consultative business solutions and cloud offerings. We will continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage. We believe that our more consultative, solution-selling approach and portfolio of offerings that support customers choice in procuring and deploying analytics will best position us to be our customers trusted advisor and partner of choice for architecting, implementing, and managing their analytic solutions. Future Trends We believe that future demand for our analytic solutions will increase due to high levels of data growth being driven by new types of data, such as big data and the internet of things, including: machine-generated data, sensor data, data from connected devices, social network data, internet text and search indexing, call detail records, genomics, biological research, medical records, seismic/exploration data, photography and video archives, and large scale e-commerce data. Analytic environments are becoming more complex to design and manage as there are increasing types of analytic tools and techniques, multiple data management systems both on-premises and in the cloud commercial and open-source technologies to be integrated, varying service level requirements, and the growth and volume of data. This complexity drives the need for an overall architecture to manage such environments. Demand for value-added consulting and services is growing as customers seek help with evolving their analytic architectures, rapidly deploying their analytic architectural solutions, and increasingly look to purchase analytic capabilities as a service". Overall, analytics are growing in importance as global businesses seek new means to drive business value from the ever-increasing amounts and types of data. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership status and investments in our strategic areas of focus will position us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Over the past few years, we have seen a shift in the market that included a reduction in customers large capital investments in traditional data analytic systems and related services. Specifically, customers have been focusing investments in their analytical ecosystems on products which have lower average selling prices than traditional integrated data warehouse ("IDW") environments, and changing their buying behavior with decisions shifting from IT to business users who typically want operating expense purchasing options. As a result, our revenue has been impacted by our customers focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. In addition, an increasing percentage of our customers want to buy easy-to-use, vendor managed, on-line delivery as-a-service analytics rather than 18 Table of Contents analytic systems. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenge for future revenue growth relate to our ability to adapt and respond to this market shift with respect to the way customers want to purchase and deploy analytic technologies. Overall, we believe that the IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems as well as the addition of new customers. Teradata has expanded our offerings as well as our pricing options to make it easier for customers to buy and expand with Teradata including flexible offerings including availability in the cloud and subscription pricing programs. There is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could increase in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes the top focus and lower-cost/lower performing alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex analytic workloads to address customer's needed business outcomes from large-scale analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas portfolio of offerings. As the market continues to evolve, we will be challenged to generate revenue growth shorter term as customers purchase in smaller deal sizes, and more of our customers shift from upfront perpetual licenses to recurring subscription models. As described above, we are also transforming our go-to-market approach to better position Teradata with both business buyers and IT buyers, and to increase wallet share with our existing customers as well as add more customers. To meet this objective, we will focus on execution and monitoring our progress with respect to this evolution, as well as working to infuse talent into our organization with key skill sets to support our strategy. We continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and longer term will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In addition, we will continue to optimize our go-to-market structure to focus on the greatest analytic opportunities, and to manage our cost structure as we work to broaden our product and consulting services portfolios and market penetration. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of October 31, 2016, Teradata is expecting less than one point of negative impact from currency translation on our full year projected revenue growth rate. Business Transformation Teradata continues to advance in the execution of its business transformation plan to return the Company to profitable growth. As described above, we are strengthening our consultative approach to selling data analytics that enable high-impact business outcomes for our customers and extended our portfolio of hybrid cloud solutions. We are also realigning our go-to-market approach to improve sales effectiveness and achieve better financial results. We will continue to invest and prioritize initiatives that strengthen our ability to be our customers trusted advisor for data and analytics. In addition, our broad-reaching transformation is intended to drive change across our Company, including in the following key areas: Cloud - We plan to continue to expand our data warehouse offerings in the public cloud and in Teradatas managed cloud environments. With our "Teradata Everywhere TM " initiative, we offer our customers greater flexibility and agility through the same Teradata Database that we offer on premises, now in a managed cloud, public cloud, or private cloud environment. For our customers, Teradata Everywhere is designed to speed time to value, save costs, and encourage analytics use throughout the organization. We are building new services for cloud migration as well as for design, implementation and management of cloud and hybrid cloud environments. 19 Table of Contents On premises data warehouse - We have introduced methods to make it easier to buy, expand, and seamlessly upgrade data warehouses. We expect that our IntelliFlex TM platform architecture, released in early 2016, will provide more flexible configurations and seamless expansions of our customers IDW environments, and that our software-only version of Teradata will allow us to expand with both new and existing customers. Analytical ecosystem - We are adding to our data load and integration software and service offerings capabilities that manage customers' analytical ecosystems with new products such as Teradata Unity TM , QueryGrid TM , and Listener TM . These offerings help connect and manage the customers' ecosystems to help manage and extract value from their data. We expect the mix of our revenues to shift toward cloud, analytical ecosystem, and analytic consulting services over time, as these are faster growing markets. We believe this shift will also help increase our recurring revenue over time. Another element that is critical to Teradata's successful transformation plan is modifying our go-to-market efforts to a more consultative approach to better address the increasing relevance of business buyers and to help customers build analytical ecosystems that include our own technologies as well as open source and other commercial solutions. We have actions underway to adjust our go-to-market efforts to address these new approaches and align to the way customers want to buy data analytics solutions. The Company has reviewed and rationalized our expense structure and is now moving from a cost reduction initiative to a cost management approach as it invests for Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. On July 1, 2016, Teradata completed the sale of our marketing applications business to exclusively focus on our data and analytics business, in support of our transformation plans. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Revenue % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product revenue $ 208 37.7 % $ 240 39.6 % Service revenue 344 62.3 % 366 60.4 % Total revenue $ 552 100 % $ 606 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $54 million or 9% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . Product revenue decreased 13% in the third quarter of 2016 from the prior-year period due to the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. In addition, as discussed under the future trends section of this MD&A, our revenue has been impacted by our customers' focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. Many customers have delayed or reduced on-premises purchases to evaluate these other options. This shift is being addressed by our business transformation strategy and could impact our quarterly revenue comparisons as some revenue that we would normally recognize in a given quarter may now be spread over a number of periods. Services revenue decreased 6% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 13% decrease in consulting revenue, partially offset by a 2% increase in maintenance revenue from the prior period. The decrease in services was primarily due to the sale of the marketing applications business. 20 Table of Contents Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product gross margin $ 136 65.4 % $ 142 59.2 % Service gross margin 158 45.9 % 165 45.1 % Total gross margin $ 294 53.3 % $ 307 50.7 % The product gross margin increase as a percentage of revenue was driven by deal and product mix. The services gross margin rate increase was driven by the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016, which had historically generated lower service gross margins than Teradata's core business. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 159 28.8 % $ 179 29.5 % Research and development expenses 46 8.3 % 51 8.4 % Total operating expenses $ 205 37.1 % $ 230 37.9 % The decreases in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense and Research and Development expense were primarily due to cost reduction initiatives and the divestiture of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Other Income (Expense), net In millions 2016 2015 Gain on securities $ $ 35 Interest expense (3 ) (3 ) Interest income 2 1 Other 2 Other income (expense), net $ 1 $ 33 Other income in the third quarter of 2015 arose primarily from a $35 million gain on the sale of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the United States and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2016 to be approximately 38%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2016 and the discrete tax impact to our effective rate resulting from the $57 million non-deductible goodwill impairment, which resulted in no tax benefit and the $22 million discrete tax impact resulting from the sale of the marketing applications business in the third quarter of 2016. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 13%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the United States. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Effective tax rate 45.6 % 29.1 % 21 Table of Contents For the three months ended September 30, 2016, there was a $22 million discrete tax expense related to the sale of the marketing applications business that occurred on July 1, 2016. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, there were no material discrete tax items impacting the effective tax rate. The difference in the effective tax rate period over period was primarily driven by the discrete tax impact from the sale of the marketing applications business in the third quarter of 2016. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2016, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which it now manages the Company's business under two geographic regions and the marketing applications division (prior to its completed sale on July 1, 2016); which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas Data and Analytics (North America and Latin America); (2) International Data and Analytics (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan); and (3) Marketing Applications. Effective July 1, 2016, following the sale of the marketing applications business, Teradata is managing its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended September 30 : % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 317 57.4 % $ 347 57.3 % International Data and Analytics 235 42.6 % 221 36.4 % Total Data and Analytics 552 100.0 % 568 93.7 % Marketing Applications % 38 6.3 % Total segment revenue $ 552 100 % $ 606 100 % Segment gross margin Americas Data and Analytics $ 185 58.4 % $ 197 56.8 % International Data and Analytics 113 48.1 % 104 47.1 % Total Data and Analytics 298 54.0 % 301 53.0 % Marketing Applications % 15 39.5 % Total segment gross margin $ 298 54.0 % $ 316 52.1 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 9% in the third quarter of 2016 from the third quarter of 2015 , which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. As discussed in the future trends section of this MD&A, the revenue decline was driven by our customers' focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. Segment gross margins as a percentage of revenues were higher driven by an increase in product gross margin. The increase in the product gross margin was driven by deal and product mix. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 6% in the third quarter of 2016 from the third quarter of 2015 . The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa in the third quarter of 2016 as compared to third quarter of 2015. Segment gross margins as a percentage of revenues were up from 22 Table of Contents third quarter of 2015 driven by an increase in product gross margin. The increase in the product gross margin was driven by deal and product mix. Marketing Applications: The marketing applications business was sold on July 1, 2016. Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Revenue % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product revenue $ 630 37.1 % $ 737 40.7 % Services revenue 1,066 62.9 % 1,074 59.3 % Total revenue $ 1,696 100 % $ 1,811 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $115 million or 6% during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 1% adverse impact on revenue in the first nine months. Product revenue decreased 15% in the first nine months of 2016 from the prior-year period due to the sale of the marketing applications business. In addition, as discussed under the future trends section of this MD&A, our revenue has been impacted by our customers' focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. Many customers have delayed or reduced on-premises purchases to evaluate these other options. This shift is being addressed by our business transformation strategy and could impact our year-over-year revenue comparisons as some revenue we would normally recognize in a given period may now be spread over a number of periods. Services revenue decreased 1% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 4% decrease in consulting revenue partially offset by 2% increase in maintenance revenue from the prior period, both of which were negatively impacted by the sale of the marketing applications business. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product gross margin $ 391 62.1 % $ 437 59.3 % Service gross margin 482 45.2 % 474 44.1 % Total gross margin $ 873 51.5 % $ 911 50.3 % The product gross margin increase as a percent of revenue was driven by deal and product mix. The services gross margin increase was driven by exiting the marketing applications business which has a lower service margin rate than the Data and Analytics services rate. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 505 29.8 % $ 553 30.5 % Research and development expenses 154 9.1 % 173 9.6 % Impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets 80 4.7 % 340 18.8 % Total operating expenses $ 739 43.6 % $ 1,066 58.9 % The decrease in SG&A expense of $48 million was primarily due to the exit of the marketing applications business and cost reduction initiatives, partially offset by higher annual incentive payment accruals. R&D expenses decreased $19 million due to the exit of the marketing applications business, and cost reduction initiatives. 23 Table of Contents The Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $ 57 million and acquired intangible assets of $ 19 million in the first quarter of 2016 to adjust the carrying amount of the marketing applications business, which was sold on July 1, 2016, to its fair value less cost to sell. In addition, the Company also recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to the sale of its corporate plane that was completed in the second quarter of 2016. The Company recorded a $340 million impairment of goodwill during the quarter ended June 30, 2015, also related to the marketing applications business. Other (Expense) Income, net In millions 2016 2015 Gain on securities $ $ 50 Interest expense (9 ) (6 ) Interest income 4 3 Other 1 (1 ) Other (expense) income, net $ (4 ) $ 46 Other income in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 increased primarily from $50 million in gains on the sale of equity investments. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Effective tax rate 48.5 % (51.4 )% For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the effective tax rate includes a discrete tax impact resulting from the $76 million impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles recorded in the first quarter, of which $57 million is related to non-deductible goodwill and $19 million is related to the impairment of intangibles, for which a tax benefit of $6 million was recorded, as well as a $22 million discrete tax impact from the sale of the marketing applications business recognized in the third quarter. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the effective tax rate includes a discrete tax impact resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment reflected in the second quarter, of which $318 million is related to non-deductible goodwill and $22 million relates to tax-deductible goodwill, for which a tax benefit of $8 million was recorded. The difference in the effective tax rate period over period was primarily driven by the difference in the discrete tax impact from the non-deductible goodwill impairment recorded in the first quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015 and the tax impact from the sale of the marketing applications business recorded in the third quarter of 2016. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the nine months ended September 30 : 24 Table of Contents % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 937 55.2 % $ 1,031 57.0 % International Data and Analytics 690 40.7 % 666 36.8 % Total Data and Analytics 1,627 95.9 % 1,697 93.7 % Marketing Applications 69 4.1 % 114 6.3 % Total segment revenue $ 1,696 100 % $ 1,811 100 % Segment gross margin Americas Data and Analytics $ 532 56.8 % $ 580 56.3 % International Data and Analytics 326 47.2 % 315 47.3 % Total Data and Analytics 858 52.7 % 895 52.7 % Marketing Applications 33 47.8 % 46 40.4 % Total segment gross margin $ 891 52.5 % $ 941 52.0 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 9% in the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the first nine months of 2015, which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. As discussed in the future trends section of this MD&A, the revenue decline was driven by our customers focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. Segment gross margins as a percentage of revenue were higher due to favorable product mix. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 4% in the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the first nine months of 2015, which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in the European and Asia Pacific regions in the first nine months of 2016 as compared to first nine months of 2015. Segment gross margins were flat as compared to the first nine months of 2015. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 39% in the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the first nine months of 2015. The decline in revenue was driven by the divestiture of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Prior to its divestiture, the overall segment gross margin increase was primarily driven by higher product and professional services margins. In the first nine months of 2015 the Company made investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market, which resulted in lower service margins in 2015. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities increased by $25 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due to changes in working capital, primarily due to a larger collection of receivables as compared to the prior period. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. 25 Table of Contents The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Nine Months Ended September 30, In millions 2016 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 395 $ 370 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (32 ) (43 ) Additions to capitalized software (54 ) (51 ) Free cash flow $ 309 $ 276 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These other investing activities included $16 million for immaterial acquisitions in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to $9 million in the prior year period. The nine months ended September 30, 2015 also includes $69 million of proceeds from the sale of equity investments. As discussed in Note 13 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), the Company sold its marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. The proceeds from the business included $92 million, which is subject to a post-closing adjustment for working capital, debt and other metrics. Teradatas financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, payments on credit facility borrowings and long-term debt. The Company purchased 2.9 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $23.83 in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 15.5 million shares at an average price per share of $35.45 in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of September 30, 2016 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $525 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $28 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and $20 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the Company repaid $180 million against the principal balance of its revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") and $22 million on its term loan, which is discussed further below. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $961 million as of September 30, 2016 and $819 million as of December 31, 2015 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $27 million as of September 30, 2016 and $20 million as of December 31, 2015 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional United States income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of September 30, 2016 , we have not provided for the United States federal tax liability on approximately $1.3 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2015 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is 26 Table of Contents unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. Teradata's $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of September 30, 2016 , the term loan principal outstanding was $578 million and carried an interest rate of 1.9375% . Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $2 million are being amortized over the five -year term of the loan. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 2016 . Teradata's Credit Facility has a borrowing capacity of $400 million . The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of September 30, 2016 , the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Unamortized deferred costs on the original credit facility and new lender fees of approximately $1 million are being amortized over the five-year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 2016 . Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2015 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2015 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies, except as discussed below. On April 22, 2016, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with Marlin Equity to sell the marketing applications business for $90 million in cash, subject to a post-closing adjustment for working capital, debt and other metrics. The purchase price received for this business was approximately $92 million in cash. 27 Table of Contents Prior to the sale, the Company performed a goodwill impairment analysis on the business to be disposed of based on the revised fair value. As a result of this analysis, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $57 million in the first quarter of 2016. In addition, acquired intangible assets were reduced in the first quarter of 2016 by $19 million to adjust the carrying amount of the disposal group's net assets and liabilities down to its fair value less cost to sell. No further adjustments were required in the third quarter of 2016 to either goodwill or intangible assets. The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be an indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.