Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the "2023 Annual Report"). The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview At Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company"), we believe that people thrive when empowered with trusted information. We are focused on helping organizations improve business performance, enrich customer experiences, and integrate data across the enterprise. As such, we strive to innovate and deliver trusted solutions for their toughest data and analytics challenges. That is why we built our comprehensive open and connected cloud analytics and data platform for artificial intelligence ("AI"). With our Teradata Vantage platform, underpinned by our extensive patented workload management optimization, we are well positioned to help enterprises solve business problems and deliver business breakthroughs with its capabilities to provide harmonized data, trusted AI, and faster innovation. As a result, we believe that we empower our customers - and our customers' customers - to make better, more confident decisions, engage in faster innovation, and drive positive impact within the enterprise. Teradata is recognized by industry analysts as offering a cloud analytics and data platform with next-generation, cloud-native deployment and expansive analytics capabilities. We believe we are differentiated by providing our analytics and data platform offering across a secure, multi-cloud ecosystem. Our differentiated approach spans deployments in the top Public Cloud service provider platforms of AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud, as well as private cloud platform instances, on-premises, and hybrid environments. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including supporting our on-premises customers, migrating customers to the cloud, upgrading customers from VantageCloud Enterprise to VantageCloud Lake, expanding our Teradata Vantage analytics and data platform product offering (which includes VantageCloud Enterprise, VantageCloud Lake, and ClearScape Analytics), adding new customers and expanding our footprint with existing customers, informing our customers of our AI capabilities, increasing our focus on diversity and inclusiveness, and driving operational excellence and agility across the Company. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual value at a point in time of recurring contracts. Total Annual Recurring Revenue ("Total ARR") - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts, including subscription, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance. Total ARR does not include managed services and third-party software. Public Cloud ARR (included within Total ARR) - annual value at a point in time of all contracts related to Public Cloud implementations of Teradata VantageCloud and does not include ARR related to private or managed cloud implementations. Cloud Net Expansion Rate - Teradata calculates its last-twelve months dollar-based cloud net expansion rate as of a fiscal quarter end as follows: We identify the ARR for active cloud customers in the fiscal quarter ending one year prior to the given fiscal quarter (the "base period"); 21 Table of Contents We then identify the Public Cloud ARR in the given fiscal quarter (the "current period") from the same set of active cloud customers as the base period, including increases in usage, as well as reductions and cancellations, and additional conversions of on-premises revenues to the cloud for customers active in the base period, all in constant currency; and The quarterly dollar-based, Cloud Net Expansion Rate is calculated by taking the ARR from the current period and dividing by the ARR from the base period. The last twelve-month dollar-based cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the average of the quarterly dollar-based cloud net expansion rate from the last fiscal quarter and the prior three fiscal quarters. 22 Table of Contents Third Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were what we view as the more significant financial items for the third quarter of 2024: At the end of the third quarter of 2024, ARR was $1.482 billion compared to $1.524 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2023, decreasing3% as compared to the third quarter of 2023, including a 1% positive impact from foreign currency translation. At the end of the third quarter of 2024, Public Cloud ARR was $570 million compared to $454 million at the end of the third quarter of 2023, increasing 26% as compared to the third quarter of 2023, including a 2% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Total revenue was $440 million for the third quarter of 2024, increasing by $2 million compared to the third quarter of 2023, with recurring revenue up 3%. Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue was flat, and consulting services revenue decreased 14%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2% adverse impact on total revenue for the quarter compared to the prior year. Gross margin increased to 60.5% in the third quarter of 2024 from 59.1% in the third quarter of 2023, primarily due to improved Public Cloud margin rates and lower overall consulting services revenue compared to the prior year. Operating expenses for the third quarter of 2024 decreased9% compared to the third quarter of 2023, primarily due to lower employee compensation expenses including stock-based compensation expense in the third quarter of 2024. Operating income was $56 million in the third quarter of 2024, compared to $27 million in the third quarter of 2023. Net income in the third quarter of 2024 was $32 million, compared to $12 million in the third quarter of 2023. Cloud Net Expansion Rate for the third quarter of 2024 was 120%, compared to 123% for the third quarter of 2023. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 Revenue % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Recurring $ 372 84.6 % $ 360 82.2 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 7 1.6 % 7 1.6 % Consulting services 61 13.8 % 71 16.2 % Total revenue $ 440 100 % $ 438 100 % Total revenue increased $2 million, or 0%, in the third quarter of 2024, including a 2% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue was up 3% as compared to the third quarter of 2023 and included a 2% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue for the third quarter of 2024 included strong growth from Public Cloud revenue and a positive impact from annual upfront software subscription revenue associated with on-premises subscription software. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other were flat year over year. Consulting services revenue decreased14% in the third quarter of 2024, including a 2% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The consulting services revenue decrease is an expected result of our overall strategy to have our consulting business focused on higher-margin engagements. Financial and Performance Measures Our Total ARR is composed of three main categories: (1) Public Cloud ARR, (2) ARR related to on-premises subscription-based contracts and private cloud ("Subscription ARR"), and (3) ARR related to our legacy perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights. At September 30, 2024 and 2023 our Total ARR consisted of: In millions 2024 2023 Public Cloud $ 570 $ 454 Subscription 793 872 Maintenance and Software upgrade rights 119 198 Total ARR $ 1,482 $ 1,524 Cloud Net Expansion rate 120 % 123 % At the end of the third quarter of 2024, Total ARR decreased 3% as compared to the third quarter of 2023, including a 1% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. At the end of the third quarter of 2024, Public Cloud ARR increased 26% as compared to the third quarter of 2023, including a 2% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Public Cloud ARRgrowth in the third quarter of 2024 was primarily driven by greater market awareness and customer demand of Teradata VantageCloud, our Public Cloud offering. The decreases in subscription ARR and maintenance and software upgrade rights ARR were primarily driven by customer migrations to Public Cloud ARR, on-premises erosions, elongated deal closing cycles and lower on-premises expansion activity. In the third quarter of 2024, we experienced the following trends as compared to the third quarter of 2023: Customers expanding into additional cloud capabilities as they see value when they migrate to VantageCloud as compared to the capabilities they had in an on-premises environment. Elongated deal closing cycles that have resulted in anticipated deal closings moving to future quarters. On-premises expansion activity being pushed out to future quarters. Uncertain industry macro-economic environment resulting in delayed customer spending. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates 24 Table of Contents as of September 30, 2024, Teradata is now estimating a 1.25%-to-1.75% negative impact from currency translation on our 2024 full-year total reported revenues. We expect to see elongated deal closing cycles continue and are now expecting cloud migration activity with some customer accounts to be pushed out to future quarters, which will negatively impact Public Cloud ARR growth in 2024. We expect expansion and migration activity as the primary contributors for Public Cloud ARR growth in 2024. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Recurring $ 261 70.2 % $ 255 70.8 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 2 28.6 % % Consulting services 3 4.9 % 4 5.6 % Total gross profit $ 266 60.5 % $ 259 59.1 % The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to a higher mix of Public Cloud revenues versus on-premises revenue as compared to the prior-year period, offset in part by continued improvement in our Public Cloud margin rate, and the positive margin impact from annual upfront software subscription revenue. The increase in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix and the timing of revenue. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased as compared to the prior year primarily due to the decrease in revenue as compared to the prior-year period. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 137 31.1 % $ 156 35.6 % Research and development expenses 73 16.6 % 76 17.4 % Total operating expenses $ 210 47.7 % $ 232 53.0 % Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decreased year over year due to continued cost discipline focused on cost reductions across the Company, as well as lower variable incentive compensation and stock-based compensation expense. Research and development ("R&D") expense decreased year over year also due to continued cost discipline efforts. Other Expense, net In millions 2024 2023 Interest income $ 3 $ 7 Interest expense (7) (8) Other (5) (13) Other expense, net $ (9) $ (14) Other expense, net in the third quarter of 2024 and 2023 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, as well as benefit costs on our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense is lower in 2024 primarily due to decreased foreign currency losses of $8 million as compared to the prior period. Interest income is lower primarily due to a lower average cash balance. 25 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The effective tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: 2024 2023 Effective tax rate 31.9 % 7.7 % For the three months ended September 30, 2024, the Company had no material discrete tax adjustments. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, the Company recorded $4 million of net discrete tax benefit, a majority of which related to adjustments to the Company's accrual for unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with FIN 48 for the lapse of statute of limitations. Effective January 1, 2024, many jurisdictions where we conduct business, including several European Union members and G20 countries, have enacted a 15% global minimum tax on the income generated in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, referred to as "Pillar Two" of the Global Anti-Base Erosion rules framework that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"). We are continuing to monitor developments and evaluate the impacts of the Pillar Two rules; we do not expect the Pillar Two rules to have a material impact to our annual effective tax rate. Effective on January 1, 2022, the U.S. tax law changed to require that R&D expenses be capitalized and amortized for tax purposes under Internal Revenue Code Section 174. This requirement has an impact on global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") tax. We are currently forecasting approximately $4 million of tax expense related to GILTI in our marginal effective tax rate for 2024. We expect that a majority of our foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where we conduct our business. We estimate that the full-year effective tax rate for 2024 will be approximately 34%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction, the estimated impact to GILTI tax (including the requirement to capitalize R&D for tax purposes), and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2024. The forecasted tax rate is based on the foreign profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 23%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of21%. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment On August 5, 2024, Teradata announced that it realigned its sales function and initiated global restructuring to optimize operations. Due to these organizational changes, Teradata now manages its business under two segments, which are also the Companys new operating segments: (1) Product Sales and (2) Consulting Services. Teradatas Product Sales segment represents the results for the Recurring Revenue and Perpetual Software Licenses, Hardware and Other line items and the Consulting Services segment represents the Consulting Services line item, each as disclosed in the Companys financial statements and in the tables in this Form 10-Q. As the revenue and gross margin trends for these business categories are already discussed in the sections above, there is no separate segment discussion presented here. Our segment information is presented in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 Revenue % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Recurring $ 1,128 84.1 % $ 1,120 81.4 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 20 1.5 % 33 2.4 % Consulting services 193 14.4 % 223 16.2 % Total revenue $ 1,341 100 % $ 1,376 100 % Total revenue decreased $35 million, or 3%, in the first nine months of 2024, and included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue increased 1%, including 1% of negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Within recurring revenue, Public Cloud revenue increased primarily due to expansions and migrations. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other were down 39% in the first nine months of 2024, as customers continue to transition to subscription-based offerings, consistent with our overall strategy. Consulting services revenue decreased 13% in the first nine months of 2024, including a 3% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The consulting services revenue decrease is an expected result of our overall strategy to have our consulting business focused on higher-margin engagements. Consulting services revenue was also negatively impacted by ceasing our direct operations in China. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Recurring $ 795 70.5 % $ 810 72.3 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 2 10.0 % 3 9.1 % Consulting services 18 9.3 % 24 10.8 % Total gross profit $ 815 60.8 % $ 837 60.8 % Recurring revenue gross profit as a percentage of revenue was down from the prior year, as the impact of a larger percentage of Public Cloud revenue was partially offset by improvements in that Public Cloud margin rate. The increase in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix and overall lower revenue volume as compared to the prior year. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased as compared to the prior year primarily due to the decrease in revenue versus the prior-year period, which was partially offset through capacity management. We continue to refocus our consulting organization on Vantage-oriented offerings and reduce our footprint in non-core consulting engagements. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 429 32.0 % $ 476 34.6 % Research and development expenses 216 16.1 % 222 16.1 % Total operating expenses $ 645 48.1 % $ 698 50.7 % SG&A expenses decreased 10% for the first nine months of 2024 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to continued cost discipline focused on cost reductions across the Company. R&D expenses decreased for the first nine months of 2024 as compared to prior year, primarily due to continued cost discipline. Other Expense, net In millions 2024 2023 Interest income $ 9 $ 22 Interest expense (22) (22) Other (23) (44) Other expense, net $ (36) $ (44) Other expense, net for the nine months of 2024 and 2023 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, and benefit costs associated with our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense is lower in the first nine months of 2024 as compared to the first nine months of 2023 primarily due to $22 million lower costs resulting from foreign currency transactions compared to the prior period. Interest income is lower primarily due to a lower average cash balance. As disclosed in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we entered into Blue Chip Swap transactions in order to remit cash from our Argentine operations that resulted in a pre-tax loss on investment of $3 million that is reported in "Other" expense. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: 2024 2023 Effective tax rate 33.6 % 27.4 % For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, the Company recorded $3 million of net discrete tax expense, a majority of which related to tax expense from stock-based compensation vesting. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the Company recorded $6 million of net discrete tax benefits, $3 million of which related to adjustments to the Company's accrual for unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with FIN 48 for the lapse of statute of limitations and $3 million related to the excess tax benefit derived from stock-based compensation vesting. 28 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $147 million, which decreased by $52 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to working capital dynamics including the impact of lower billings. Teradata used approximately $24 million of cash in the first nine months of 2024 for reorganizing and transforming its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy, as compared to $30 million in the first nine months of 2023. Teradata expects that approximately $25 to $30 million in additional cash will be used in the last three months of 2024 in connection with the implementation of the Restructuring discussed in Note 13 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Teradatas management uses a financial measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We use free cash flow (which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less investing activities related to capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software) as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchases of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities related to capital expenditures, along with free cash flow, for the following periods: Nine Months Ended September 30, In millions 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 147 $ 199 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (17) (11) Additions to capitalized software (1) (1) Free cash flow $ 129 $ 187 Financing activities and certain other investing activities, are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. As disclosed in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we entered into Blue Chip Swap transactions in order to remit cash from our Argentine operations that resulted in a pre-tax loss on investment of $3 million that is reported as an investing activity for cash flow purposes. There was also an immaterial holdback payment related to our strategic acquisition of Stemma Technologies, made in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Teradatas financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on our finance leases. At September 30, 2024, we had no outstanding borrowings on our $400 million Revolving Facility (as defined below). We have two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors: The dilution offset share repurchase program allows us to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent (i) cash is received from the exercise of stock options and (ii) employees' purchase Teradata stock pursuant to the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The purpose of the dilution offset share repurchase program is to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to the exercise of stock options and shares purchased under the ESPP. 29 Table of Contents Our open market share repurchase program provides for the repurchase of Teradata stock periodically on an ongoing basis in open market transactions, through 10b5-1 programs, through accelerated share repurchase programs, in privately negotiated transactions, or through the use of derivative instruments, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. The open market share repurchase program will expire on December 31, 2025. On November 1, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion for share repurchases under the open market share repurchase program. There is a total authority of $381 million remaining under the open market share repurchase program as of September 30, 2024. In the aggregate under the dilution offset share repurchase program and the open market share repurchase program, we repurchased approximately 4.9 million shares of common stock at an average price per share of $38.07 in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Share repurchases are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Other financing activities, including net share settlement for the payroll tax liability of section 16 officers (as discussed in Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds), offset by proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax was a net outflow of $1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and a net inflow of $6 million (including fees from the credit facility agreement) for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The ESPP proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $328 million as of September 30, 2024 and $428 million as of December 31, 2023. The remaining balance held in the United States ("U.S.") was$20 million as of September 30, 2024 and $58 million as of December 31, 2023. The Company expects that a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the 2023 Annual Report and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the Credit Facility or its term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. On June 28, 2022, we entered into a Credit Agreement that provides for (i) a five-year unsecured term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the "Term Loan"), and (ii) a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $400 million, including a $50 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $50 million sublimit for swingline loans (the "Revolving Facility" and, collectively with the Term Loan, the "Credit Facility").The Credit Facility replaces our prior revolving credit agreement in the maximum principal of $400 million and our prior term loan agreement in the principal amount of $500 million, both of which were entered into in 2018 (the "Prior Agreements"). In connection with the execution of the Credit Facility, the $400 million term loan outstanding under the Prior Agreements was repaid in full. Our long-term debt is discussed in Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). In addition, as disclosed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), Teradata entered into an interest rate swap to hedge approximately 90% (or $444 million as of September 30, 2024) of the floating interest rate of the outstanding principal of the $500 million Term Loan and a cross currency swap to hedge a portion of Euro currency exposure of its net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2024, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Facility, leaving $400 million in borrowing capacity available under the Revolving Facility and the Term Loan principal outstanding was $487 million. On September 21, 2023, the Credit Agreement was amended to establish key performance indicators with respect to certain environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") targets, pursuant to which certain positive or negative 30 Table of Contents adjustments would be made to various fees and applicable margin based on Teradatas performance against such ESG targets. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2023 Annual Report. Our commitments and contingencies are discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. We assessed certain accounting matters that generally require consideration of forecasted financial information in context with the information reasonably available to us as of September 30, 2024 and through the date of this report. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to, our allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, financial assets, valuation allowances for tax assets and revenue recognition. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2023 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.