Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward-looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata is a global leader in analytic data solutions and related services, as well as marketing and analytic applications. Our analytic data solutions comprise software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services for analytics across a companys entire analytical ecosystem. We help customers access and manage data and extract business value and insight from their data. Our applications are designed to leverage data to help customers discover and exploit new insights such as: determining and maximizing customer and product profitability, more accurately forecasting consumer demand, creating more predictable and less costly supply chains, and improving organizations effectiveness in marketing to their customers. Our consulting services allow customers to maximize use and obtain great value from their analytics and marketing investments. Our services include a broad range of offerings including consulting to help organizations design, optimize and manage their analytic and big data environments, either on-premises or in the cloud. Our value-added consulting services provide expertise in: data architecture services, cloud ("software as a service", "analytics as a service"), private cloud, managed services, and related installation services. In addition to our consulting services we offer a comprehensive set of support services. We serve customers around the world across a broad set of industries, including communications, ecommerce, financial services, government, gaming, healthcare, insurance, manufacturing, media and entertainment, oil and gas, retail, travel and transportation, and utilities - with offerings ranging from small departmental implementations to many of the worlds largest analytic data platforms and marketing applications. To meet evolving trends in information management, we provide our offerings on-premises or in the cloud (as a service). 2015 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2015 : 30 Table of Contents Revenue decreased 7% in 2015 from 2014 to $2,530 million . The year-over-year revenue comparison was negatively impacted by 5 percentage points from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margin was 50.4% in 2015 , down from 54.1% in 2014 , which was largely due to foreign exchange impact as well as adverse product and deal mix. Operating loss was $(195) million in 2015 , down from operating income of $503 million in 2014 . The year-over-year decline was largely due to impairments of goodwill and acquired intangibles, as well as by lower revenues, gross margins, and an increase in operating expenses. Net loss of $(214) million in 2015 versus $367 million of net income in 2014 . Net loss per common share was $(1.53) in 2015 compared to net income per common (diluted) share of $2.33 in 2014 . Net loss for 2015 includes a $457 million after-tax impairment loss for goodwill and acquired intangibles, approximately $45 million in after-tax impacts of acquisition-related transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, compared to $45 million of such costs and expenses in 2014 . Additionally, 2015 net loss includes a $35 million after-tax gain on sale of equity investments and 2014 includes a $6 million after tax loss on equity investments. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Teradata empowers data-driven companies to achieve competitive advantage and win in their markets by exploiting data for insight and value. With Teradatas industry-leading analytic data solutions, marketing applications and proven consulting experience and expertise, companies can become more competitive by leveraging insights from data to, among other things, increase revenue and profitability, improve marketing effectiveness, drive innovation, enhance customer relationships, improve business processes and reduce costs. Our strategy is centered on providing the worlds best data solutions to drive competitive advantage for our customers, by focusing on these critical areas: Deliver our solutions on-premises or via the cloud (as a service), offering customers choice in how they deploy a Teradata analytics environment and leverage the power of our solutions. These flexible delivery options are designed to extend our market opportunity. Expand our analytical ecosystem offerings, including our big data portfolio, that helps organizations architect, integrate data into, and manage their analytic environment. We also focus on enhancing and extending value-added services, including big data consulting, ecosystem architecture consulting and managed services across customers' complex analytical ecosystems. Building analytic solutions and providing consulting that creates actionable insights and/or automates decisions that deliver high impact return on investment, by packaging replicable analytical use cases, based on learnings from our top customers, many of which are the leaders and innovators in analytics. Optimize our go-to-market approach to improve effectiveness in demand creation and address new and expanded market opportunities, such as with our cloud offerings. Continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage. We believe that these strategic areas will best position us to be our customers trusted advisor and partner of choice for architecting, implementing, and managing their analytic solutions. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that future demand for our analytic data platforms will increase due to high levels of data growth being driven by new types of data, such as big data and the internet of things, including: machine-generated data, sensor data, data from connected devices, social network data, internet text and search indexing, call detail records, genomics, biological research, medical records, seismic/exploration data, photography and video archives, and large scale e-commerce data. Analytic environments are becoming more complex to design and manage as there are increasing types of analytic tools and techniques, multiple data management systems both on-premises and in the cloud, varying service level requirements, and the growth and volume of data. This complexity drives the need for an overall architecture to manage such environments. Demand for value-added services is growing as customers seek help with evolving their 31 Table of Contents analytic architectures, rapidly deploying their analytic architectural solutions, and increasingly look to purchase analytic capabilities as a service". Overall, analytics are growing in importance as global businesses seek new means to drive business value from the ever-increasing amounts and types of data and as a result, we expect Teradatas leadership position and investments in strategic areas of focus to position us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Since mid-2012, we have seen a shift in the market and in customers buying patterns, with respect to large capital investments and related services. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenge for future revenue growth relates to pressures on large capital expenditures. We believe that a number of factors have contributed to the pressures on large capital expenditures and the resulting slowdown in our revenue growth, including: the evolving information technology market, as customers focus investments in their analytical ecosystems which have lower average selling prices than traditional on-premises integrated data warehouse ("IDW") environments and changing customer behavior as buying decisions are shifting from IT to business users. Overall, we believe that the IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems (through growth in IDW, Teradata private and public cloud, Teradata big data analytics, and our value-added services and solutions) as well as the addition of new customers. Teradata has expanded our offerings as well as our pricing options to make it easier and to provide more flexibility for customers to buy and expand with Teradata including cloud offerings and subscription pricing. There is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could occur in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top focus and lower-cost alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads or provide a Unified Data Architecture to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas offerings. As the market continues to evolve, we could be challenged to generate revenue growth shorter term as customers purchase in smaller deal sizes, and we potentially shift from upfront perpetual licenses to recurring subscription models for both on-premises and cloud offerings. As described above, we continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and longer term will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In addition, we will continue to optimize our go-to-market structure and rationalize our cost structure as we work to broaden our product and services portfolios and market reach. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2016, Teradata is expecting approximately two percentage points of adverse impact from currency translation on our reported revenue growth rate and a corresponding currency impact on operating income, based on currency rates as of January 30, 2016. 32 Table of Contents BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION During 2015, the Company announced a plan to realign Teradata's business by reducing its cost structure and focusing on the Company's core data and analytics business. In addition to exiting the majority of our marketing applications business, this plan is intended to lead to a comprehensive transformation of the Company that will place it on a trajectory of meaningful revenue growth, by building on our strengths in high performance data analytics and consulting services, advancing our technology leadership positions, and expanding our market opportunities. This transformation plan addresses the challenges of the analytical ecosystem, cloud, software-only, and open source. It also addresses customers changing behaviors in how they buy, consume, and deploy analytic solutions. Our broad-reaching transformation is intended to drive change in four key revenue generating areas and create a more diversified, stable, and predictable revenue stream: 1. On premises data warehouse - We plan to make it easier to buy, expand, and seamlessly upgrade data warehouses - through pricing options, software-only, and Teradata Labs innovation. We believe that we have a solid opportunity for revenue growth in this market by growing the portion of IT budgets our existing customers spend on Teradata solutions, and by penetrating the more than 75% of the Global 5000 that do not use Teradata. We expect that our software-only version of Teradata will also allow us to expand with both new and existing customers. 2. Cloud - We plan to make our data warehouse available on managed and public cloud, which is intended to expand our data warehouse market opportunity in the Global 5000. We currently expect to deliver our initial software-only version of Teradata on a public cloud during the first part of 2016, and to make our fully scalable version of Teradata available on public clouds in 2017. We are building new services for cloud migration as well as for design and implementation. 3. Analytical ecosystem - We plan to continue to add to our software and service offerings that focus on the analytical ecosystem such as with Unity, QueryGrid, and Listener. These offerings help connect and manage the ecosystem and Aster, which helps to extract value from the data. 4. Value-added services and solutions - We plan to provide replicable analytical solutions including packaged service offers, use cases, and intellectual property. We believe we have a strong foundation for building repeatable solutions with our logical data models, business improvement opportunities, and use cases. We intend to expand our investments to systematically capture more of these use cases and intellectual property from engagements around the world and to package them for ease of delivery and implementation. We expect the mix of our revenues to shift toward cloud, analytical ecosystem, and value added services over time, as these are fast growing markets. We believe this shift also will help increase our recurring revenue. Another central and critical element of Teradata's transformation plan is modifying our go-to-market approach to integrate with our four revenue generating initiatives. We have already begun taking steps to optimize our go-to-market approach for on-premises data warehouse and analytical ecosystem, and we are also exploring new ways to generate additional demand within the Global 5000. The Company is also engaged in a thorough review of its costs and is taking significant steps to rationalize its expense structure. This broad-based cost rationalization effort includes reducing Teradatas infrastructure costs as it transitions its focus solely to its data and analytics business, optimizes its go-to-market resources and approach, and prioritizes research and development projects based on revenue generation and profitability. Although we believe the demand for our marketing applications solutions is likely to increase as marketing continues to be transformed by the increased usage of data and analytics, Teradata has concluded it is in the long-term best interests of the Company and its shareholders to exit the marketing applications business in order to exclusively focus on its data and analytics business. 33 Table of Contents RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015, 2014 AND 2013 Revenue % of % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue 2013 Revenue Product revenue $ 1,057 41.8 % $ 1,227 44.9 % $ 1,230 45.7 % Service revenue 1,473 58.2 % 1,505 55.1 % 1,462 54.3 % Total revenue $ 2,530 100 % $ 2,732 100 % $ 2,692 100 % Total revenue decreased 7% in 2015 as compared to 2014. The 7% reported revenue decrease included a 5% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue decline was due primarily to constrained information technology budgets, extended sales cycles, and a reduction in large customer orders, as well as the impact currency translation had on reported revenue growth. Product revenue decreased 14% in 2015 from 2014 primarily due to a decrease in customers' large capital expenditures and foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 5% adverse impact on product revenue. Service revenue decreased 2% in 2015 from 2014, with an underlying 5% decrease in consulting services revenue and 1% increase in maintenance services revenue compared to 2014. Services revenue declined due to foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 6% adverse impact on services revenue. In 2014, total revenue increased 1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The 1% reported revenue increase included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The general lack of meaningful revenue growth was due primarily to tightly constrained information technology budgets, extended sales cycles, a reduction in large customer orders, as well as the impact currency translation had on reported revenue growth. Product revenue was flat in 2014 from 2013. Service revenue increased 3% in 2014 from 2013, with an underlying 7% increase in maintenance services revenue, as compared to 2013. Consulting services revenue was flat in 2014 compared to 2013 . Gross Margin The Company often uses specific terms/definitions to describe variances in gross margin. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of products and services that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross margin even if total revenue remains unchanged. Services Mix - The proportion of higher-margin maintenance revenue versus lower-margin consulting revenue that generates the total services revenue of the Company. Product Mix - The proportion of various products that generate the total product revenue of the Company. For example, a higher mix of IDW products versus departmental data mart, Aster, our Extreme Data Appliance or Hadoop products would have a positive impact on product gross margins. This definition also includes the mix of Company sourced and third party products. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period and includes such transactions as capacity on demand (COD), floor sweeps versus capacity additions, enterprise license agreements ("ELA"), hardware versus software, and discounting (new customers versus existing customers, large customers versus smaller customers). COD is a common offering used by Teradata and other information technology vendors that allows the customer to purchase extra capacity in the future, which is already delivered and integrated into their existing systems, typically within 12-18 months. COD enables customers to "activate" or add capacity quickly. Product cost is recognized upon delivery with no corresponding revenue. When customers activate the COD, we record and recognize the revenue associated with the added capacity and the gross margin is recovered. 34 Table of Contents Floor sweeps take place when an existing customer replaces their older Teradata platform with a new Teradata platform, which can result in a large revenue transaction, but typically also results in a higher mix of lower-margin hardware revenue versus higher-margin software revenue. ELA transactions allow customers to purchase as much software as needed for current production use for a period of time in exchange for a fixed fee that is typically recognized as revenue upfront or as payments become due if the terms of the payments are extended. Additional capacity during the term results in lower-margin hardware revenue versus higher-margin software revenue. Gross margin for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: % of % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue 2013 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 617 58.4 % $ 784 63.9 % $ 797 64.8 % Service gross margin 659 44.7 % 695 46.2 % 676 46.2 % Total gross margin $ 1,276 50.4 % $ 1,479 54.1 % $ 1,473 54.7 % In 2015, product margin declined 5.5 percentage points due to deal mix (including a higher mix of hardware versus software deals as well as pricing programs that are intended to make it easier to buy Teradata), foreign currency, a lower mix of integrated data warehousing products and a reduction in product volume. Service gross margin declined 1.5 percentage points due to investments in our big data consulting capabilities, the marketing applications business prior to the decision to exit this business, and our Teradata cloud capabilities. In 2014, product gross margin decreased primarily due to increased amortization of previously capitalized software. Additionally, product gross margins were adversely impacted by product mix and were partially offset by improved deal mix. Operating Expenses % of % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue 2013 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 765 30.2 % $ 770 28.2 % $ 757 28.1 % Research and development expenses 228 9.0 % 206 7.5 % 184 6.8 % Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles 478 18.9 % % % Total operating expenses $ 1,471 58.1 % $ 976 35.7 % $ 941 35.0 % In 2015, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decreased by $5 million or 1% compared to 2014. The decrease is a result of the change in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by increased investments in demand creation resulting from our strategic investment initiatives. Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased $22 million or 11% in 2015 due to additional investments in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, which includes incremental expenses for our recent acquisitions. The increase in R&D expense was also caused by a decrease in capitalized software of $7 million compared to 2014. In 2014, SG&A increased by $13 million or 2% compared to 2013. R&D expenses increased $22 million in 2014 from 2013 due to expenses related to a voluntary early-retirement program during the first quarter of 2014, incremental headcount for our complementary technology acquisitions, and our internal planned investments on future releases. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company determined that indicators were present in the marketing applications reporting units which would suggest the fair value of the reporting units may have declined below the carrying value. These indicators were primarily due to lower than forecasted revenue and profitability levels for 2015 and future periods. The lower projected operating results reflected a review of the marketing applications business performed by new leadership announced at the end of the first quarter of 2015. The interim goodwill 35 Table of Contents impairment analysis performed in the second quarter of 2015 resulted in a revision of the Companys previous estimates performed in the fourth quarter of 2014 and first quarter of 2015 (in connection with the change in segment reporting), which resulted in a goodwill impairment of $340 million in the second quarter of 2015. The annual goodwill impairment analysis, which the Company performed during the fourth quarter of 2015, did not result in an impairment charge for the data and analytics segment. However, because our marketing applications business was held for sale as of December 31, 2015, an additional impairment of $97 million for goodwill and $41 million for acquired intangible assets was recorded since the fair value less cost to sell was lower than the carrying amount. The fair value of this business was based on a review of the term sheets and indications of interest that were received from third parties in addition to ongoing negotiations with potential buyers. At the time the Company announced its earnings in early February 2016, our preliminary analysis indicated an impairment of $34 million for goodwill and no impairment for acquired intangible assets based on the fair value of our marketing applications business. This analysis was subsequently updated to reflect the current fair value as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. Other Income (Expense), net In millions 2015 2014 2013 Gain (loss) on Securities $ 57 $ (9 ) $ (22 ) Interest income 5 5 4 Interest expense (9 ) (3 ) (4 ) Other (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total Other Income (Expense), net $ 51 $ (9 ) $ (24 ) In 2015, other income primarily included a gain of $57 million from sale of equity investments. This was partially offset by an increase in interest expense due to an increase in debt. In 2014, other expense primarily included a loss of $9 million on an equity investment arising from an impairment of carrying value. In 2013, other expense included a loss of $25 million on an equity investment arising from an impairment of carrying value, partially offset by a $3 million gain on sale. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: 2015 2014 2013 Effective Tax Rate (48.6 %) 25.7 % 25.8 % The 2015 effective tax rate was impacted by the $437 million of goodwill impairment charges recorded for 2015, of which $414 million was treated as a permanent non-deductible tax item. This resulted in full-year income tax expense in 2015 of $70 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $(144) million, causing a negative tax rate of (48.6%). There were no material discrete tax items impacting the effective tax rate for full year 2014. The tax rate for 2013 included a $4 million discrete tax benefit for the 2012 U.S. Federal Research and Development Tax Credit (the R&D tax credit) that was recognized in January of 2013 when the tax credit was retroactively reinstated. We currently estimate our full-year effective tax rate for 2016 to be approximately 26%. This estimate takes into consideration, among other items, the forecasted earnings mix by tax jurisdiction for 2016. This effective tax rate estimate excludes the tax impact from the pending disposal of our marketing applications business, a portion of which will be taxable in the United States and Germany, causing a discrete tax impact for GAAP reporting purposes in the quarter of disposition. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2015, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata currently manages its business in two divisions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) data and analytics, and (2) 36 Table of Contents marketing applications. This change was meant to enable each division to be more sharply focused in rapidly addressing the dynamics of each market, and in bringing the best solutions to our customers. For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: % of % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue 2013 Revenue Segment revenue Data and Analytics $ 2,337 92.4 % $ 2,523 92.3 % $ 2,478 92.1 % Marketing Applications 193 7.6 % 209 7.7 % 214 7.9 % Total revenue $ 2,530 100 % $ 2,732 100 % $ 2,692 100 % Segment gross margin Data and Analytics $ 1,237 52.9 % $ 1,422 56.4 % $ 1,399 56.5 % Marketing Applications 79 40.9 % 94 45.0 % 109 50.9 % Total segment gross margin $ 1,316 52.0 % $ 1,516 55.5 % $ 1,508 56.0 % Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased $186 million or 7%, in 2015 from 2014, with an underlying 4% decrease in the Americas region coupled with a 12% decrease in the International region. The revenue decrease included a 5% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The Americas revenue was down primarily driven by a decrease in customer large capital expenditure transactions. International revenue was down primarily due to foreign currency fluctuations, which impacted revenue by 11%. Gross margins were down in 2015 compared to 2014 due to the high mix of hardware versus software deals and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. In 2014, revenue increased $45 million or 2% from 2013, with an underlying 1% decrease in the Americas region offset by a 6% increase in the International region. The overall revenue decrease included a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased $16 million or 8% in 2015 from 2014. The revenue decrease included a 7% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease in 2015 from 2014 is primarily driven by investments in the cloud business as well as lower professional services margins, which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market and drive long-term growth in this business. In 2014, revenue decreased $5 million or 2% from 2013. There was no impact due to foreign currency fluctuations. The decrease in gross margin in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to investments to drive long-term growth in this business. Changes in segment reporting. Beginning January 2016, the Company will change its operating segments and report future results under three separate segments: (a) Americas Data and Analytics (b) International Data and Analytics, and (c) Marketing Applications until such time as the portion of the marketing applications business to be divested is sold. The remainder of the marketing applications business that will be retained will be reported under the data and analytics operating segments. 37 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2015 with $ 839 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $ 5 million increase from the December 31, 2014 balance, after using approximately $657 million for repurchases of Company common stock, and approximately $17 million for acquisitions and investment activities which were completed during the year. Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $279 million to $401 million in 2015. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to lower net income and due to a higher level of collections of accounts receivables in the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to 2015. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2015 2014 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 401 $ 680 $ 510 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (52 ) (54 ) (60 ) Additions to capitalized software (68 ) (75 ) (78 ) Free cash flow $ 281 $ 551 $ 372 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. In 2015 and 2014, these other investing activities primarily consisted of immaterial complementary business acquisitions and equity investment activities that were closed during these years. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $657 million for share repurchases, proceeds from Credit Facility (as defined below) borrowings of $180 million, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $220 million, and proceeds from a new term loan of $600 million and repayment of existing term loan of $247 million, as discussed below. Teradata's financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, with proceeds from a prior credit facility of $220 million in 2014. The Company purchased 19 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $34.15 in 2015, 13 million shares at an average price per share of $43.09 in 2014, and 7.8 million shares at an average price per share of $48.53 in 2013. Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. On February 6, 2012, the board approved a new $300 million share repurchase authorization to replace a prior $300 million authorization (the general share repurchase program), that was to expire on February 10, 2012. Since February 2012, Teradatas Board of Directors has approved, in $300 million increments, additional share repurchase authorizations for a total of $2.0 billion under the Companys general share repurchase program on December 10, 2012, October 14, 2013, May 5, 2014, December 18, 2014 and May 4, 2015. Additional share repurchase of $500 million was authorized in August 20, 2015. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company had $573 million of authorization remaining under the 38 Table of Contents general share repurchase program to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions, as well as merger and acquisition opportunities. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $24 million in 2015, $29 million in 2014, and $28 million in 2013. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $819 million as of December 31, 2015 and $785 million as of December 31, 2014. The remaining balance held in the United States was $20 million as of December 31, 2015 and $49 million as of December 31, 2014. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and potential foreign withholding taxes. As of December 31, 2015, we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1.2 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. On March 25, 2015, Teradata replaced its existing five-year, $300 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In 2015 , Teradata chose a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had $180 million of outstanding borrowings on the Credit Facility at an interest rate of 1.623%, leaving $220 million in additional borrowing capacity available. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2015 . Also on March 25, 2015, Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $600 million five-year term loan, the proceeds of which were used to pay off the remaining $247 million of principal on its existing term loan, pay off the $220 million outstanding balance on the prior credit facility, and fund share repurchases. The $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which will commence on March 31, 2016, with all remaining principal due in March 2020. The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2015 , the term loan principal outstanding was $600 million and carried an interest rate of 1.8125%. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2015. Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and the $220 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, severance benefits and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. 39 Table of Contents Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2015 , with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2017- 2019- 2021 and In millions Amounts 2016 2018 2020 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term debt $ 600 $ 30 $ 90 $ 480 $ Interest payments on long-term debt 41 11 20 10 Principal payments on short-term debt 180 180 Interest payments on short-term debt 3 3 Lease obligations 81 24 35 12 10 Purchase obligations 18 8 10 Total debt, lease and purchase obligations $ 923 $ 256 $ 155 $ 502 $ 10 Our principal payments on short-term and long-term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $600 million term loan and our $400 million credit facility and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long-term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate on our $600 million term loan as of December 31, 2015 . Our principal payments on short-term debt represent the expected cash payment on our $400 million Credit Facility, of which $180 million is currently outstanding and $220 million is available. Our lease obligations in the above table include Company facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, the Company has $20 million in total uncertain tax positions recorded as non-current liabilities and $3 million recorded as current liabilities on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 . These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities; however, it is not expected that any payments will be due within the next 12 months. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third-party guarantees are described in detail in Note 8Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 6Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management 40 Table of Contents periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all deliverables of the arrangement, and in determining the relative selling price of each deliverable, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. The Company reviews the relative selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the year ended December 31, 2015 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the relative selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Capitalized Software Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product is charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates are largely based upon the pre-tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business. These jurisdictions apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates; the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate is currently 35% as compared to the overall statutory effective tax rate of our various foreign jurisdictions of approximately 13%. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company has not provided for federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $1.2 billion from its foreign subsidiaries. 41 Table of Contents We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company has a total of $38 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $20 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability and $3 million is recorded in current income taxes payable as the Company expects to settle this uncertain tax position within the next twelve months. The remaining balance of $15 million of uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes both generated by the Company and acquired in various acquisitions, which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We recorded $25 million in 2015 and $20 million in 2014 for valuation allowances. Due to a change in tax law enacted in the state of California in the fourth quarter of 2012 , the Company established a valuation allowance to partially offset its California Research & Development tax credit carryforward deferred tax asset, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California Research & Development tax credits into the foreseeable future. Stock-based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize pricing models, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation at the date of grant. These valuation models require the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. Further, we estimate forfeitures for options granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we issue performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, the company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the second step of the impairment test is performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. The implied fair value of the goodwill in step two analysis is determined by the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations 42 Table of Contents which requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities and to allocate the fair value between net assets and goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. Teradata reviewed four reporting units in its 2015 goodwill impairment assessment, as each operating segment consisted of separate reporting units for the Americas and International regions. See Note 3Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets" for additional information. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the Company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate any excess purchase price consideration between net assets and goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2015 , a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $7 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $12 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference.