Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Companys definitive proxy statement for its 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III. 2 PART I Item 1. Business General IKONICS Corporation (IKONICS or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota as Chroma-Glo, Inc. in 1952 and changed its name to The Chromaline Corporation in 1982. In December 2002, the Company changed its name to IKONICS Corporation. The Companys two traditional businesses, Chromaline and IKONICS Imaging, have been the development, manufacture and selling of photosensitive liquids (emulsions) and films for the screen printing, awards and recognition industries and consumer products markets. These sales have been augmented with inkjet receptive films, ancillary chemicals and related equipment to provide a full line of products and services to its customers. These products are sold worldwide primarily through distributors. The Company further diversified itself by expanding its business to industrial markets. These efforts now include the Companys Advanced Material Solutions (AMS) business unit which uses the Companys proprietary processes and photoresist film for the abrasive etching of composite materials, industrial ceramics, silicon wafers, and glass wafers. The customer base for AMS is primarily the aerospace and electronics industries. Based on its expertise in ultraviolet curable fluids and inkjet receptive substrates, the Company has also developed a patented digital texturing technology (DTX) for putting patterns and textures into steel molds for the plastic injection molding industry. The original equipment manufacturer (OEM) for the Companys DTX technology is primarily the automotive industry. The Company offers a suite of products to the mold making industry. Industrial inkjet printers, which are integral to the DTX system, are manufactured by a third party and sold by IKONICS. The Companys business plan is to sell consumable fluids and transfer films. For most markets, these sales are direct to the mold maker. The DTX technology is also utilized in prototyping where the Companys technology offers a unique combination of high definition, large format prints, and abrasion resistance. Products The Company has four primary technology platforms: ultraviolet (UV) chemistry, film coating and construction, technical abrasive etching, and industrial inkjet printing. The Companys traditional products and new initiatives are based on these platforms and their combinations. The Companys Chromaline and ImageMate branded products for the screen printing industry and IKONICS Imaging products for the both the awards and recognition and consumer product markets are based on UV chemistry and film coating and construction capabilities; the AMS offering is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction and technical abrasive etching capabilities; DTX is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction, and industrial inkjet printing. There is overlap and synergy in the market between the Chromaline, IKONICS Imaging, AMS and DTX product offerings, and the Company offers ancillary products, including equipment to provide customers with a total solution. The Company considers this combination of core technologies and product offerings to be unique. Distribution and Customers The Company currently has approximately 200 domestic and international distributors for its Chromaline and ImageMate screen printing emulsions and films. The Companys abrasive etching products are mainly sold directly to end users in the awards and recognition market under the IKONICS Imaging brand. AMS products are sold either directly to users or the Company offers AMS as a service. DTX includes the sales of consumable inks and films to customers that have purchased specialized industrial inkjet printers from the Companys strategic partner. DTX sales are primarily direct to end users. The Company markets and sells its products through magazine advertising, trade shows and the internet. The Company has a diverse customer base both domestically and abroad, with international sales accounting for 29.7% of total sales in 2020 and 29.4% of sales in 2019, and does not depend on one or a few customers for a material portion of its revenues. In 2020 and 2019, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales. Quality Control in Manufacturing In March 1994, IKONICS became the first company in northern Minnesota to receive ISO 9001 certification. ISO 9000 is a worldwide standard issued by the International Organization for Standardization that provides a framework for quality assurance. The Company has been recertified every three years beginning in 1997. IKONICS quality function goal is to train all employees properly in both their work and in the importance of their work. Internal records of quality, including related graphs and tables, are reviewed regularly and discussions are held among management and employees regarding how improvements might be realized. The Company has rigorous materials selection procedures and also uses testing procedures to assure its products meet quality standards. Research and Development and Intellectual Property The Company incurred costs totaling 5.0% of sales, or $671,000, on research and development in 2020, and 4.9% of sales, or $870,000, in 2019. In its research program, IKONICS has developed ultraviolet light-sensitive chemistries used in the manufacturing of screen print stencils, photoresists for abrasive etching and acid resists, stencils for consumer products, and prototyping ink jet fluids, and ink jet receptive films. The Company has a number of patents and patent applications on these chemistries and applications. There can be no assurance that any patent granted to the Company will provide adequate protection to the Companys intellectual property. Within the Company, steps are taken to protect the Companys trade secrets, including physical security, confidentiality and non-competition agreements with employees, non-disclosure agreements where applicable, and confidentiality agreements with vendors. Over the past few years, the Company has directed a larger portion of it research and development resources towards industrial inkjettable fluids and ink jet receptive substrates along with films for the consumer products market. The Company has also invested significant resources for personnel and equipment to develop proprietary products and techniques for the etching of composite materials, industrial ceramics and electronic wafers. In addition to its patents, the Company has various trademarks including the IKONICS, Chromaline, IKONICS Imaging, Precision Abrasive Machining, PhotoBrasive, AccuArt, image mate, Alpha FlexTrace, Alpha MicroCap," DTX, SubTHAT!, and IKONART trademarks. 3 Raw Materials The primary raw materials used by IKONICS in its production are photopolymers, polyester films, polyvinylacetates, polyvinylalcohols and water. The Companys purchasing staff leads in the identification of both domestic and foreign sources for raw materials and negotiates price and terms for all domestic and foreign markets. IKONICS involvement in foreign markets has given it the opportunity to become a global buyer of raw materials at lower overall cost. The Company has a number of suppliers for its operations. Some suppliers provide a significant amount of key raw materials to the Company, but the Company believes alternative sources are available for most materials. For those raw materials where an alternative source is not readily available, the Company has contingency raw material replacement plans. To date, there have been no significant shortages of raw materials. The Company believes it has good supplier relations. Competition The Company competes in its markets based on product development capability, quality, reliability, availability, technical support and price. Though the screen printing market is much larger than the awards and recognition market, IKONICS commands significantly more market share in the latter. IKONICS has two primary domestic competitors in its screen printing film business. They are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources than the Company in many areas. The Company has numerous competitors in the market for screen print emulsions, many of whom are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources. The market for the Companys abrasive etching products in the awards and recognition market has one significant competitor. IKONICS considers itself to be the leader in this market. There are significant competitors, using different technologies in the new markets being entered by the Company. The primary competition for AMS is from other machining methods, most of which are well established. The primary competition for DTX comes from old, well-established technologies based on wax and screen printing and new competition from laser technologies. Government Regulation The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local industrial laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of material into the environment and protection of the environment. The governmental authorities primarily responsible for regulating the Companys environmental compliance are the Environmental Protection Agency, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Western Lake Superior Sanitary District. Failure to comply with the laws promulgated by these authorities may result in monetary sanctions, liability for environmental clean-up and other equitable remedies. To maintain compliance, the Company may make occasional changes in its waste generation and disposal procedures. These laws and regulations have not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures or competitive position of the Company. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with the various federal, state and local regulations that apply to its current operations. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. The Company also is subject to regulations from foreign governments covering the importation of certain chemicals. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with these regulations that apply to its current products. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. Employees As of February 28, 2021, the Company ha d 58 total and full-time employees, 54 of whom are located at the Companys two facilities in Duluth, Minnesota and four of whom are outside technical sales representatives in various locations in the United States. None of the Companys employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and the Company believes that its employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors Covid-19 Related Risks A public health crisis or global outbreak of disease, including the pandemic caused by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has had, and we believe will continue to have, a negative effect on the Company's operations, supply chain and workforce, creating business disruptions that could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows The pandemic caused by COVID-19 was first reported in Wuhan, China, in December 2019 and has since spread to all geographic regions where the Companys products are produced and sold. The global, regional and local spread of COVID-19 has resulted in significant global mitigation measures, including government-directed quarantines, social distancing and shelter-in-place mandates, travel restrictions and/or bans, and restricted access to certain corporate facilities and manufacturing sites. Uncertainty with respect to the severity and duration of the pandemic has contributed to periods of volatility and disruption of financial markets. While the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, impacts to the Company may include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the Companys stock price due to market volatility; a decrease in demand for the Companys products; reduced profitability; supply chain disruptions impeding the Companys ability to ship and/or receive product; potential interruptions or limitations to manufacturing operations imposed by local, state or federal governments; shortages of key raw materials; workforce absenteeism and distraction; labor shortages; customer credit concerns; cyber security and data accessibility disruptions due to remote working arrangements; reduced sources of liquidity; increased borrowing costs; and potential asset impairment charges. Business disruptions and market volatility resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to have a material adverse impact on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company received funding and subsequently had its entire loan forgiven under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. There is no guarantee that the Company will not become subject to future penalties or that the decision to forgive the loan in whole or part will be rescinded. On April 18, 2020, the Company executed a promissory note in favor of BMO Harris Bank evidencing an unsecured loan in the aggregate principal amount of $1,214,500, which was made pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program, or the PPP. The PPP was established under the CARES Act, which was enacted on March 27, 2020, and is administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration, or the SBA. All the funds under the loan were disbursed to the Company on April 22, 2020. The Company used all proceeds from the loan to retain employees, maintain payroll and make rental and utility payments. Under the terms of the CARES Act, loan recipients can apply for and be granted forgiveness for all or a portion of the loans granted under the PPP. In 2020, the Company submitted an application for 100% forgiveness of the PPP Loan and upon approval by the SBA and the lender, the Company received forgiveness for 100% of the $1,214,500 loan. The Company is not aware of or anticipating any further review of its loan forgiveness, but the loan itself and the forgiveness of the loan could be subject for further examination by the SBA or the lender. If the decision to forgive the loan is reversed in part of whole, the Company will be required to repay the outstanding principal, along with accrued interest. Strategic and Competitive Related Risks The Companys DTX and AMS initiatives involve new technologies that might not be executed successfully and might not achieve market acceptance. The Companys DTX and AMS initiatives involve technologies that might never achieve market acceptance. During 2020 and 2019, the Company generated operating losses in its AMS segment while the DTX segment has realized operating income since 2015. The Companys ability for generating profits from these initiatives will depend on its products gaining market acceptance among customers, which cannot be guaranteed. The degree of market acceptance of any new products the Company develops will depend on a number of factors, including: the Companys ability to successfully develop its technologies and products to include the capabilities the Company intends; the Companys ability to accurately assess the functions and features customers desire; the perceived effectiveness and price of the Companys products compared to alternative products and technologies; the development of new products and technologies by current competitors or new competitors that might enter the Companys markets; and the strength of the Companys marketing and distribution functions. If new products that the Company develops do not have the capabilities the Company expects or fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by customers for any reason, then the Companys AMS and DTX business units could fail to generate the revenues the Company expects and may not become profitable or sustain profitability. 4 If the Companys new products and technologies do not achieve market acceptance, the Company will not realize a return on its investments in its new business initiatives. The Company has invested, and plans to continue to invest, significant resources in its research and development efforts to develop technology for its business units. The Company spent 5.0% of sales, or $671,000, on research and development in 2019 and 4.9% of sales, or $870,000, in 2019. A substantial portion of these investments was for new products and initiatives. The Company plans to continue to invest significant resources in research and development of new products and initiatives for the foreseeable future. The Company believes successful execution of these initiatives and new products is important for its ability to grow its revenues and profits. However, if the Company fails to generate its projected revenues from these products and initiatives, the Companys investments in these areas would not generate the profits the Company expects and its results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. The Company faces significant competition and expects to face increasing competition in many aspects of its businesses, which could cause operating results to suffer. The Company operates in highly competitive industries that experience rapid technological and market developments, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements, particularly with respect to the AMS and DTX businesses. If the Company is unable to anticipate and respond to these developments, its products or technologies could become uncompetitive or obsolete. Most of the Companys competitors in the AMS and DTX fields are larger and better capitalized than the Company with longer operating histories. These advantages could allow the Companys competitors to invest more resources in research and development and sales and marketing than the Company, which could make the competitive products more attractive or better known to consumers than the Companys products. In addition, because there is potential for rapid technological change in fields in which the Company operates, the Company could face competition from new sources in the future that customers find more attractive. The Company also could face increased competition in its traditional Chromaline and IKONICS Imaging units. Capital costs for machinery necessary to operate in these industries have decreased in recent years, increasing the possibility that the Company will face new competitors. An increase in the amount of competition the Company faces, or a loss of competitiveness in any of the Companys business units for any reason, could adversely affect its revenues and gross margins. Regulatory and Legal Risks The Companys failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm its business and results of operations. The manufacturing of the Companys products requires the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. The Companys failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of manufacturing processes; and restrictions on the Companys operations or sales. The Companys failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. Environmental laws and regulations also could require the Company to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs or incur other expenses. Third parties may claim the Company infringes their intellectual property rights, which could harm the Companys business. The Company may face claims that it infringes other parties intellectual rights. Regardless of a claims merit, claims that the Companys products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could cause the Company to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. As a result of any intellectual property rights infringement claims, the Company could be required to: pay infringement claims; stop manufacturing, using, or selling products or technology subject to infringement claims; develop other products or technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming, costly or impossible; or license technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. These actions could harm the Companys competitive position, result in additional expenses, or require the Company to impair its assets. If the Company alters or stops production of affected items, its ability to generate revenue could be harmed. 5 The Company may be unable to enforce or protect its intellectual property rights, which may harm its ability to compete and may harm its business. The Companys ability to enforce its patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of the Companys intellectual property rights in various countries. If the Company seeks to enforce its rights, it could become subject to claims that its intellectual property rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. The Companys assertion of intellectual property rights also could result in the other party seeking to assert claims against the Company, which could harm the Companys business. The Companys inability to enforce its intellectual property rights for any reason could harm its competitive position and business. If the Company is unable to protect the confidentiality of its proprietary information and know-how, the value of its technology could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, the Company relies on unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. The Company generally seeks to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and the Company may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, the Companys trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that the Companys employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the Company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. General Economic and Operational Risks Adverse changes to global economic conditions generally, and to the aerospace and automotive industries in particular, may harm the Companys business. The prospects for economic growth in the United States and other countries remain uncertain and major economies where the Company conducts business could continue or return to recessionary conditions. Economic concerns and issues such as reduced access to capital for businesses or tariffs may cause the Companys customers to delay or reduce purchases of the Companys products. Given the continued uncertainty concerning the global economy, the Company also faces risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by suppliers and customers, such as an inability to collect receivables or the continued operation of suppliers. Global or local events, such as terrorist attacks, political insurgencies, electrical grid disruptions and outages, and pandemics including further spread of the coronavirus could also disrupt our operations, the operations of our suppliers and customers, or result in economic instability. The Companys AMS segment focuses primarily on customers in the aerospace industry, and its DTX segment focuses primarily on customers in the automotive industry. The aerospace and automotive industries have experienced volatility in prior years in a manner similar to or greater than the global economy generally. If either or both these industries experiences difficulties that reduce demand for their products generally, the Companys results of operations, financial condition and prospects would suffer. The Company conducts a global business that exposes it to additional risks. The Company conducts business throughout the world, including in the United States, Europe, India and China. These international operations create a variety of risks and uncertainties, including: rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions, political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics including the coronavirus; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; compliance with and changes in foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA); different, complex and changing laws governing intellectual property rights, sometimes affording companies lesser protection in certain areas; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and protectionist laws, tariffs and business practices that favor local producers. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect the Companys international business and, consequently, its results of operations generally. The Company faces risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. A significant portion of the Companys sales, including nearly all sales of its Chromaline products, were conducted through third parties. Using third parties for distribution exposes the Company to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk and compliance risks. Distributors may sell products that compete with the Companys products, and the loss of a distributor could reduce the Companys revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm the Companys collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the FCPA or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on the Companys business. Failing to manage risks related to the Companys use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken its competitive position. Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact the Companys financial results. Certain raw materials needed to manufacture products are obtained from a limited number of suppliers and many of the raw materials are petroleum-based. Under normal market conditions, these raw materials are generally available on the open market from a variety of producers. While alternate supplies of most key raw materials are available, supplier production outages may lead to strained supply-demand situations for certain raw materials. The substitution of key raw materials could require the Company to identify new supply sources, or reformulate and retest products or processes. From time to time, the prices and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate, which could impair the Companys ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing products. If the prices of raw materials increase in a short period of time, the Company may be unable to pass these increases on to its customers in a timely manner or at all, which could reduce its gross margins. Like most companies in the Companys industries, the Company does not have long-term supply contracts for most of its key raw materials, which exacerbates the foregoing risks to the Company. If any of the Companys current single or limited source suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, its customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Company acquires certain of its materials that are critical to its operations from a limited number of third parties. Should any of the Companys current single or limited source suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, or impose terms unacceptable to the Company such as increased pricing terms, the Company could be required to spend a significant amount of time and expense to develop alternate sources of supply, and may not be successful in doing so on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to find a suitable supplier for a particular material, it could be required to modify its existing business processes or offerings to accommodate the situation. As a result, the loss of a single or limited source supplier could adversely affect the Companys relationship with its customers and its results of operations and financial condition. 6 The Company depends on one manufacturer to make and sell DTX printers. If the manufacturer ceased to make or sell DTX printers, or failed to meet quality standards, the Companys financial results and prospects would be adversely affected. The Company relies on one company to manufacture and sell DTX printers. If the manufacturer ceased to produce or devote resources to selling DTX printers, due to a change in company strategy, to focus on alternative initiatives, or for any other reason, the Company would need to find an alternative manufacturer and seller of DTX printers. Finding an alternative manufacturer and seller of DTX printers could result in additional costs and delays in growing the Companys DTX business unit, which would adversely affect the Companys financial results and prospects. In addition, if these manufacturers failed to produce DTX printers that satisfy the Companys quality standards, the Companys reputation with end users could be harmed and the Company could be forced to find a new manufacturer. Either of these results also would harm the Companys business and prospects. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely impact the Companys business. Sustaining and growing the Companys business depends on the recruitment, development and retention of qualified employees, including management and research and development personnel. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect the Companys operations. We heavily rely on our information technology systems and are vulnerable to damage and interruption. The Company relies on our information technology systems and infrastructure to process transactions and manage its business, including maintaining employee, client and supplier information. The Company has also engaged third parties, including cloud providers, to store, transfer and process data. The information technology systems, as well as the systems of our customers, suppliers and other partners, are vulnerable to outages and an increasing risk of deliberate intrusions to gain access to and exploit company sensitive information. Similarly, data security breaches by employees and others with or without permitted access to the Company's systems pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. The Company may be unable to prevent outages or security breaches in its systems that could adversely affect results of operations and cause reputational harm. The Companys operating results and financial condition may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. The Companys operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and could vary due to a number of factors, some of which are outside of the Companys control. In addition, the Companys actual or projected operating results may fail to match its past performance. The Companys operating results and financial condition may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: the failure of the Companys new products to meet expectations; changes to the costs of raw materials, especially petroleum-based materials; the entry of new competitors into the Companys markets whether by established companies or by new companies; the geographic distribution of the Companys sales; changes in customer preferences or needs; changes in the amount that the Company invests to develop or acquire new technologies; delays between the Companys expenditures to develop new technologies and products and the generation of sales related thereto; protectionist laws and tariffs implemented by foreign governments to favor local producers; a prolonged United States Federal or State government shutdown; changes in the Companys pricing policies or those of its competitors; changes in accounting rules and tax and other laws; and general economic and industry conditions that affect customer demand and product development trends. Due to all of the foregoing factors and the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of the Companys operating results as an indicator of future performance. Risks Related to Our Common Stock An active trading market for the Companys shares of common stock may not develop. The Companys common stock has been listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market since 1999 and persistently has experienced limited trading volume. There can be no assurance that an active public market for the Companys shares will develop or be sustained. The lack of an active trading market could adversely affect the price and liquidity of the Companys common stock. The Companys directors and officers own a large percentage of the Companys common stock, which may allow them to collectively exert significant influence over substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. As of December 31, 2020, the Companys directors and officers collectively beneficially owned approximately 14.2% of its common stock outstanding as of that date. As a result, the Companys directors and officers could exert significant influence over all matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, amendments to the Companys articles of incorporation, and extraordinary transactions such as mergers or going private transactions. These ownership positions may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or a change in the composition of the Companys board of directors. In addition, substantial sales of shares beneficially owned by our directors or officers could be viewed negatively by third parties and have a negative impact on the Companys stock price. The price of the Companys common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of the Companys common stock has, and could continue to, fluctuate substantially in a short period of time. The price of the Companys common stock could vary for many reasons, including the following: future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors; introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors, or the failure of the Companys new products to meet expectations; the commencement of, or developments to, litigation involving the Company; quarterly variations in operating results, which the Company has experienced in the past and expects to experience in the future; business acquisitions or divestitures; or changes to the global economy in general, and the aerospace and automotive markets in particular. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Companys common stock. The market price of the Companys common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of the Companys shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the Companys performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Property The Company primarily conducts its operations in Duluth, Minnesota. The administrative, sales, research and development, quality and most of the manufacturing activities are housed in a 60,000 square-foot, four-story building, including a basement level. The building is approximately eighty years old and the Company believes it has been maintained in good condition. The Company also utilizes a 5,625 square-foot warehouse adjacent to the existing plant building that was constructed in 1997. These facilities are owned by the Company with no existing liens or leases. The Company also owns an approximately 11-acre property with a 62,300 square-foot manufacturing and warehouse facility. The 62,300 square-foot facility is comprised of a 35,000 square-foot warehousing and manufacturing facility constructed in 2008 and a 27,300 square-foot expansion completed in 2016 to accommodate the Companys AMS business. The entire facility on the 11-acre property is collateral on the Companys $3.4 million loan. Item 3. Legal Proceedings None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 7 PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "IKNX." As of Februar y 26, 2021, the Company had 54 holders of record. The C ompany has not declared cash dividends in the past two years and does not currently have plans to pay any cash dividends in the future. Any future declaration and payment of dividends is within the sole discretion of the Companys board of directors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not applicable Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations and financial condition during 2020 and 2019 and should be read in conjunction with the Companys audited financial statements and notes thereto for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, included herein. Impact of the COVID --19 Pandemic The Company is closely monitoring the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and the impact on its business. The outbreak and continuing spread of COVID-19 has resulted in a substantial curtailment of business activities worldwide and is causing weakened economic conditions, both nationally and globally. As part of efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, federal, state, local and foreign governments have imposed various restrictions on the conduct of business and travel. Government restrictions, such as stay-at-home orders and quarantines and company remote work policies have led to a significant number of business closures and slowdowns. These business closures and slowdowns have already adversely impacted and will likely continue to adversely impact the Company directly, as well as cause its customers and suppliers to slow or stop production, which will likely significantly disrupt the Company's sales, production and supply chain. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company began to experience decreased demand for its products and services during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The Company anticipates a decrease in global demand for its products and services will continue in 2021 and beyond. This significant decrease in demand will likely have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. The Companys facilities continue to operate and are doing so safely, having implemented social distancing and enhanced health, safety and sanitization measures. The Company's leadership continues to address the situation and is adjusting as necessary. The Company has also implemented necessary procedures to enable a significant portion of its employee base to work remotely. As the situation continues to evolve into a more prolonged pandemic, the Company expects the COVID-19 pandemic to have a significant adverse effect on economies and financial markets globally, potentially leading to a significant worldwide economic downturn, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. However, the duration of these trends and the magnitude of such impacts cannot be precisely estimated at this time, as they are affected by a number of factors (some of which are outside managements control), including those presented in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors above. To partially mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company implemented cost reduction efforts including reducing the Company's workforce by approximately 30%, temporary reductions in board and officer compensation, temporary suspension of the Companys contribution to its 401(k) retirement plan and the elimination of all non-essential expenditures. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting policies and estimates which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results include the following: Revenue recognition . Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in the contract with a customer, adjusted for any applicable estimates of variable consideration and other factors affecting the transaction price, including noncash consideration, consideration paid or payable to customers and significant financing components. While most of the Companys revenue is contracted with customers through one-time purchase orders and short-term contracts, the Company does have long-term arrangements with certain customers. Revenue from all customers is recognized when a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a distinct good or service to a customer. Individually promised goods and services in a contract are considered a distinct performance obligation and accounted for separately if the customer can benefit from the individual good or service on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the good or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the arrangement. When an arrangement includes multiple performance obligations, the consideration is allocated between the performance obligations in proportion to their estimated standalone selling price. Costs related to products delivered are recognized in the period incurred, unless criteria for capitalization of costs are met. Costs of revenues consist primarily of direct labor, manufacturing overhead, materials and components. The Company does not incur significant upfront costs to obtain a contract. If costs to obtain a contract were to become material, the costs would be recorded as an asset and amortized to expense in a manner consistent with the related recognition of revenue. The Company excludes governmental assessed and imposed taxes on revenue transactions that are invoiced to customers from revenue. The Company includes freight billed to customers in revenue. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. 8 The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in accounts receivable on the balance sheet. Performance obligations . A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. A contracts transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation in proportion to its standalone selling price and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. The Companys various performance obligations and the timing or method of revenue recognition are discussed below: The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Each unit of product delivered under a customer order represents a distinct and separate performance obligation as the customer can benefit from each unit on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer and each unit of product is separately identifiable from other products in the arrangement. The transaction price for the Companys products is the invoiced amount. The Company does not have variable consideration in the form of refunds, credits, rebates, price concessions, pricing incentives or other items impacting transaction price. The purchase order pricing in arrangements with customers is deemed to approximate standalone selling price; therefore, the Company does not need to allocate proceeds on a relative standalone selling price allocation between performance obligations. The Company does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less. There are no material obligations that extend beyond one year. Revenue is recognized when transfer of control occurs as defined by the terms in the customer agreement. The Company immediately recognizes incidental items that are immaterial in the context of the contract. The Company does not have any significant financing components in its customer arrangements as payment is received at or shortly after the point of sale, generally thirty to ninety days. The Company estimates returns based on an analysis of historical experience if the right to return products is granted to its customers. The Company does not record a return asset as non-conforming products are generally not returned. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The customer has no rotation or price protection rights. Trade receivables. Trade receivables include amounts invoiced and currently due from customers. The amounts due are stated at their net estimated realizable value. The Company records an allowance for doubtful accounts to provide for the estimated amount of receivables that will not be collected. The allowance is based on a review of all outstanding amounts on an on-going basis. Management determines the allowance for doubtful accounts by regularly evaluating individual customer receivables and considers a customers financial condition, credit history, and current economic conditions. Trade receivables are written off when deemed uncollectible. Recoveries of trade receivables previously written off are recorded when received. Accounts are considered past due if payment is not received according to agreed-upon terms. Sales commissions. Sales commissions paid to sales representatives are eligible for capitalization as they are incremental costs that would not have been incurred without entering into a specific sales arrangement and are recoverable through the expected margin on the transaction. The Company has elected to apply the practical expedient provided by ASC 340-40-25-4 and recognize the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred, as the amortization period of the assets that would have otherwise been recognized is one year or less. The Company records these costs in selling, general, and administrative expense. Product warranties. The Company offers warranties on various products and services. These warranties are assurance type warranties that are not sold on a standalone basis; therefore, they are not considered distinct performance obligations. The Company estimates the costs that may be incurred under its warranties and records a liability in the amount of such costs at the time the revenue is recognized for the product sale. International revenue. The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 29.7% of total sales in 2020 and 29.4% of total sales in 2019. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Income Taxes. Deferred taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax basis. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. 9 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Sales. Sales decreased 23.8% in 2020 to $13.4 million from $17.6 million in 2019 due to the slowdown in economic activity related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Chromaline 2020 sales of $8.5 million decreased by 26.1% from the 2019 sales of $11.5 million. IKONICS Imaging 2020 sales of $3.7 million were $482,000, or 11.5%, lower than 2019 sales. AMS sales decreased from $1.6 million in 2019 to $952,000 in 2020, a 39.0% decrease. DTX sales also decreased in 2020 from $394,000 in 2019 to $295,000 in 2020. IKONICS anticipates that the COVID-19 outbreak will continue to adversely impact sales in all of its divisions for most of 2021 due to decreasing demand for its products and services. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $3.9 million, or 29.1% of sales, in 2020 compared to $5.4 million, or 30.6%, of sales in 2019. Lower sales and production volume, resulted in the Chromaline gross margin decreasing from 26.9% in 2019 to 26.6% in 2020. A decrease in sales volumes also resulted in the AMS gross margin decreasing to a negative 25.1% in 2020 from 10.3% in 2019. A large portion of the AMS cost structure is fixed, causing sales volumes to have a significant impact on its gross margin. The IKONICS Imaging 2020 gross margin improved from 45.8% in 2019 to 46.8% in 2020 as a more favorable sales mix offset the negative impact of lower sales and production volumes while the DTX gross margin decreased from 60.0% in 2019 to 52.2% in 2020. IKONICS anticipates that the COVID-19 outbreak will continue to adversely impact gross margins for most of 2021 due to lower sales volumes and production output. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $5.0 million, or 37.4% of sales, in 2020 compared to $5.5 million, or 31.1% of sales, in 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2020 decreased primarily from the Company's cost reduction initiative resulting in fewer personnel, travel, trade show, and promotional expenses. These cost savings were partially offset by the one-time expense incurred in 2020 of $365,000 related to the Chief Executive Officer transition. The transition costs include severance payments to the former CEO, a signing bonus, relocation expenses and executive search consulting expenses. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses for 2020 were $671,000, or 5.0% of sales, versus $870,000, or 4.9%, of sales in 2019. Research and development expenses in 2019 were unfavorably impacted by a $93,000 write off of patent application costs that were previously recorded as an asset as the Company determined that it would no longer continue to pursue those patent applications. Research and Development expenses in 2020 were also lower due to staffing reductions or other cost reduction efforts Interest Expense. Interest expense for 2020 and 2019 was $87,000 and $90,000, respectively. Other Income. Other Income for 2020 was $1.2 million due to forgiveness of its Paycheck Protection, or PPP, loan under the CARES Act compared to $61,000 in 2019. On April 18, 2020, the Company executed a promissory note in favor of BMO Harris Bank evidencing an unsecured loan in the aggregate principal amount of $1,214,500, which was made pursuant to the PPP. The PPP was established under the CARES Act, which was enacted on March 27, 2020, and is administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration, or the SBA. All the funds under the loan were disbursed to the Company on April 22, 2020. The Company used all proceeds from the loan to retain employees, maintain payroll and make utility payments. Under the initial terms of the CARES Act, loan recipients could apply for and be granted forgiveness for all or a portion of the loans granted under the PPP. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company submitted an application for 100% forgiveness of the PPP Loan and upon approval by the SBA and the Lender, the Company received forgiveness for 100% of the $1,214,500 loan. Income Taxes. For 2020, the effective tax rate was a benefit of 32.3%, compared to a benefit of 17.5% for 2019. The primary driver of the change in the Companys effective tax rate is attributable to a tax benefit in the current period to recognize a net operating loss carryback claim. The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $210,000 and $172,000 for 2020 and 2019, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outside of the 2016 building expansion, for which $3.4 million in financing was obtained, and the PPP loan, the Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash and cash equivalents were $3.7 million and $964,000 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In addition to its cash, the Company held $2.2 million of short-term investments as of December 31, 2019. There were no short-term investments as of December 31, 2020. The Company used $399,000 in cash from operating activities during 2020, compared to using $477,000 of cash from operating activities in 2019. Cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of the net loss adjusted for non-cash depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes, loan forgiveness and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During 2020, trade receivables decreased by $316,000. This decrease was due primarily to a slowdown in sales of products and services in 2020 as a result of the aforementioned COVID-19 pandemic. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventories decreased by $536,000 as the Company tightened inventory levels in response to the decrease in demand for its products. Prepaid expenses and other assets decreased by $781,000 reflecting a decrease in a receivable related to the reimbursement of 2019 medical insurance costs the Company received from its stop-loss insurance carrier. Accrued expenses decreased by $592,000, reflecting a decrease in the accrual for health insurance costs. Accounts payable decreased by $302,000 due to the Company's costs reduction efforts and a reduction in raw material purchases in anticipation of lower sales volume. Income taxes receivable increased by $218,000 as the Company recognized an income tax benefit attributable to a net operating loss carryback claim. During 2019, an increase in sales during the fourth quarter of 2019 resulted in a $220,000 trade receivables increase. Inventories increased by $134,000 mainly due to higher levels of IKONICS Imaging equipment inventory compared to 2018. Accounts payable increased from 2018 to 2019 by $114,000 due to the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased $532,000 from 2018 to 2019. The increase is mainly due to a receivable related to the reimbursement of 2019 medical insurance costs that the Company will receive from its stop-loss insurance carrier. Compared to 2018, accrued expenses increased $513,000 reflecting an increase in accrued medical insurance costs. Income taxes receivables decreased $1,000 due to the timing of estimated 2019 tax payments compared to the calculated 2019 tax liability. During 2020, cash provided by investing activities was $2.1 million. Nine certificates of deposits totaling $2.2 million matured during the year. The Company's purchases of equipment of $150,000 were mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace a vehicle. The Company received $18,000 in proceeds from the sale of vehicle. Also, during 2020, the Company incurred $15,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. During 2019, cash provided by investing activities was $8,000. The Company purchased seventeen certificates of deposits totaling $5.6 million. Twenty two certificates of deposits totaling $6.1 million matured during 2019. The Companys purchases of property and equipment of $478,000 in 2019 were mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace two vehicles. The Company received $16,000 in proceeds from the sale of two vehicles and equipment. Also, during 2019, the Company incurred $20,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. For 2020, net cash provided by investing activities was $1.1 million compared to $190,000 of cash used in financing activities during 2019. The $1.2 million proceeds from debt in 2020 reflects the receipt of the PPP loan discussed below. Related to the Company's financing agreement, the Company made principal payments of $144,000 and $140,000 during 2020 and 2019, respectively. During 2019, the Company purchased 7,199 shares of its own stock for $50,000. 10 On April 18, 2020, the Company entered into a loan pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program under the CARES Act, as administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (the SBA). The loan, in the principal amount of $1,214,500 (the PPP Loan), was disbursed by BMO Harris Bank National Association (Lender) on April 22, 2020, pursuant to a Paycheck Protection Program Promissory Note and Agreement (the Note and Agreement). Under the initial terms of the PPP Loan, the loan would have matured on the two-year anniversary of the funding date, with interest at a fixed rate of 1.00% per annum. Monthly principal and interest payments, less the amount of any potential forgiveness (discussed below), would commence after the six-month anniversary of the funding date. The Company did not provide any collateral or guarantees in connection with the PPP Loan, nor did the Company pay any facility charge to obtain the PPP Loan. The Note and Agreement provided for customary events of default, including those relating to failure to make payment, bankruptcy, breaches of representations and material adverse effects. The Company could have prepaid the principal of the PPP Loan at any time without incurring any prepayment charges. All or a portion of the PPP Loan was eligible to be forgiven by the SBA and the Lender upon application by the Company. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company submitted an application for 100% forgiveness of the PPP Loan. Prior to end of 2020, both the Lender and the SBA forgave 100% of the Company's PPP loan. On April 1, 2016, the Company entered into a financing agreement (the Financing Agreement) under which the Duluth Economic Development Authority (the Issuer) agreed to sell $3,415,000 of its Tax Exempt Industrial Revenue Bonds, Series 2016 (IKONICS Project) (the Bonds) to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the Bank), and the Bank agreed to lend to the Company the proceeds received from the sale of the Bonds (the Loan). Related to the Companys Loan, the Company made principal payments of $144,000 and $140,000 during 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company is subject to certain customary covenants set forth in the Loan, including a requirement that the Company maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2020 the Company was in compliance with the debt service coverage ratio loan covenant, however, as of December 31, 2019 the Company was out of compliance with the debt service coverage ratio but obtained a waiver for the covenant violation. There is no certainty that a waiver can be obtained in the future if similar violations occur. The Company amended the covenant terms in February of 2020 to change the debt service coverage ratio calculation from a rolling quarterly calculation to an annual calculation beginning December 31, 2020. If the Company has future violations of its covenants, and is unable to obtain appropriate waivers, it could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's liquidity. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, the Company was notified by the bank that per the loan agreement the bank will recall the loan on April 1, 2021. The Company believes that any adverse effect of the loan recall is mitigated by its strong working capital including cash and cash equivalents of $3.7 million along with the Company's $2.0 million available line of credit as of December 31, 2020. However, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the future financial impact on its operations or working capital position given the recent downturn in business due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. A bank line of credit providing for borrowings of up to $2,050,000 expires August 30, 2021. The line of credit is collateralized by the Companys assets and bears interest at 1.8 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during 2020 or 2019, and there were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit, and the Company expects that it will secure a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, and cash generated from operations, along with the Companys capacity for additional debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. However, the full extent of the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Companys customers, supply chain and business cannot be reasonably assessed at this time and the Company expects its full year 2021 results of operations to be adversely affected. The Company has developed a plan to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 which includes permanent reductions to the Company's workforce, temporary reductions in board and officer compensation, temporary suspension of the Companys contribution to its 401(k) retirement plan and the elimination of all non-essential expenditures. The impact of COVID-19 on the Companys operating results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including governmental and business reactions to the pandemic. Capital Expenditures In 2020, the Company incurred $150,000 of capital expenditures mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace a vehicle. In 2019, the Company incurred $478,000 of capital expenditures which were mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace two vehicles. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2021 of approximately $220,000. The planned expenditures primarily will be to upgrade some of the Company's production and research equipment. These commitments are expected to be funded with cash generated from operating activities or cash on hand. International Activity The Company markets its products in numerous countries in various regions of the world, including North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. The Companys 2020 foreign sales of $4.0 million were approximately 29.7% of total sales, compared to the 2019 foreign sales of $5.2 million, which were 29.4% of total sales. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, though a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2020 or 2019. Future Outlook See the discussion under the heading Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic above for the Companys discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic. IKONICS has spent an average of approximately 5% of annual sales in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to new products and programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in these areas to expedite internal product development as well as to form technological alliances with outside entities to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company is also continuing to pursue DTX-related business initiatives. In addition to making efforts towards growing the inkjet technology business, the Company offers a range of products for creating texture surfaces and has introduced a fluid for use in prototyping. The Company is currently working on production improvements as part of its joint development agreement with AKK, a German manufacturer of high quality printers, to enhance its customer offerings. The Company has been awarded European, Japanese, and United States patents on its DTX technologies. The Company has also modified its DTX technology to facilitate entry into the market for prototyping. The Company continues to make progress on its AMS business. The Company has three long-term sales agreements in place for its technology with major aerospace companies. However, based on customer communications, the Company anticipates reduced order volume for 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Both the Chromaline and IKONICS Imaging units operate in mature markets. Although these business units require aggressive strategies to grow market share, both are developing new products and business relationships that the Company believes will contribute to growth. Early in 2019, the Company introduced its new IKONART product to positive reviews and is generating sales. IKONART provides a new way to make custom reusable stencils for the creative arts markets. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. However, the strong U.S. dollar has made international growth challenging. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include strategic partnerships, acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. 11 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which revises guidance for the accounting for credit losses on financial instruments within its scope, and in November 2018, issued ASU No. 2018-19 and in April 2019, issued ASU No. 2019-04 and in May 2019, issued ASU No. 2019-05, and in November 2019, issued ASU No. 2019-11, which amended the standard. The new standard introduces an approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments and modifies the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities. The new approach to estimating credit losses (referred to as the current expected credit losses model) applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities, net investments in leases and off-balance-sheet credit exposures. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. Entities are required to apply the standards provisions as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is adopted. The Company is still evaluating the impact of this ASU.