Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 14 First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2015 : Total revenue was $582 million for the first quarter of 2015 , down from the first quarter of 2014 , with an underlying 12% decrease in product revenue and a 4% decrease in services revenue. Gross margin decreased to 47.6% in the first quarter of 2015 down from 53.0% in the first quarter of 2014 , mainly driven by lower product margin. Operating income was $30 million in the first quarter of 2015 , compared to $89 million in the first quarter of 2014 , driven by lower product and consulting revenue and gross margin. Net income in the first quarter of 2015 was $22 million , compared to $59 million in the first quarter of 2014 . Strategic Overview Teradata helps companies achieve competitive advantage and win in their markets by empowering them to become data-driven businesses capable of exploiting data for insight and value. With Teradatas industry-leading analytic data platforms for data warehousing and big data analytics, marketing applications and proven consulting expertise, companies can become more competitive by leveraging data insights to increase revenue, reduce costs, improve business processes, enhance customer relationships, improve their marketing and drive innovation. We continue to focus on the following key initiatives to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of these market opportunities. Be the trusted advisor for enabling data-driven business and continue investing in business and technical consulting via organic growth and targeted strategic acquisitions; Invest to expand our leading Unified Data Architecture, data warehouse software and platform family, big data discovery platforms and Hadoop -based data management platforms to address multiple market segments through internal development and targeted strategic acquisitions; Accelerate our product development for marketing applications by investing in high-growth opportunities in digital marketing and marketing analytics, and adding to capabilities through targeted acquisitions; Deliver our solutions via the cloud (as a service) or on-premises with offerings that support applications as a service, data warehousing as a service, discovery analytics as a service and data management as a service; Continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage; and Continue to seek opportunities to expand our sales resources and reach, both in our data analytics and marketing applications businesses. Future Trends We believe that demand for our analytic data platforms will continue to increase due to the continued growth of data volumes and types of data, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more analytics over time. The adoption by customers of a broader set of analytics including predictive analytics, behavioral analytics, location analytics, connection analytics, and many others is driving more applications, usage and capacity. This increased breadth of analytics also drives the need for an overall architecture to manage an increasingly complex analytics environment. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership in analytic data platforms and Unified Data Architecture positions us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Since mid-2012, Teradata has seen a change in customers buying patterns, particularly in the Americas region, with respect to large capital investments and related services due to capital constraints, short-term investment priorities and lower cost alternatives. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenge for future revenue growth relates to pressures on large capital expenditures. We believe that a number of factors are contributing to a slowdown in our data and analytics revenue growth, including: information technology budget constraints; prior investments made by several of our existing customers to build out their Teradata integrated data warehousing ("IDW") environments; a current focus of investments in their analytical 15 ecosystems which have lower average selling prices than IDW environments; and to a lesser degree the transfer of some IDW workloads to other platforms in the ecosystem. In addition, as we broaden our product portfolio and market reach, we are starting to see smaller deal sizes and more revenue derived from our appliances, which is contributing to some extent to lower product gross margins. Overall, we believe that IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems, and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems (through growth in IDW and Teradata big data analytics) as well as the addition of new customers. Although we did not experience significant changes related to competitive and/or pricing trends for our analytic data platforms in the quarter ended March 31, 2015, there is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could occur in the future as, among other things, major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top priority in companies and lower-cost, but less-sophisticated, alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. These alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads or provide a Unified Data Architecture to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas offerings. As described above, we continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we will continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In our marketing applications business, we believe that demand for our integrated marketing solutions is likely to increase as marketing continues to be transformed by the increased usage of data and analytics to understand and optimize the marketing process and its impact on consumers. In addition, the increased usage of digital marketing channels, such as social and mobile, is increasing the usage of big data in marketing. We believe that Teradatas expertise in data and analytics differentiates the products and services offered by the marketing applications division. Our marketing applications are offered in the cloud as software as a service or on-premises and include solutions for marketing resource management, omni-channel marketing, digital marketing, and marketing analytics that enable our customers to implement their data-driven marketing strategies with agility and efficiency. We are continuing to invest in this business through product enhancements and expanded software as a service offerings. We believe these investments will help drive future revenue growth as will our plans to further penetrate Teradatas existing customer base. However, we expect to continue to be challenged by, among other things, strong competition in the market as existing competitors build out their marketing offerings through considerable investments and new smaller players enter the market looking to take advantage of this transformation in marketing. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates given that a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Based on currency rates as of April 30, 2015, Teradata is expecting approximately five percentage points of adverse impact from currency translation on our full-year 2015 reported revenue growth rate and a corresponding currency impact on our profitability. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Revenue % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Product revenue $ 241 41.4 % $ 273 43.5 % Service revenue 341 58.6 % 355 56.5 % Total revenue $ 582 100 % $ 628 100 % 16 Teradata revenue decreased $46 million or 7% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 5% adverse impact on revenue in the quarter. Product revenue decreased 12% in the first quarter of 2015 from the prior-year period primarily due to the timing of deals that moved out of the first quarter and foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 5% adverse impact on product revenue in the quarter. Services revenue decreased 4% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the prior-year period. This was due to a 7% adverse impact from foreign currency and an underlying 2% increase in maintenance services revenue. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 132 54.8 % $ 181 66.3 % Service gross margin 145 42.5 % 152 42.8 % Total gross margin $ 277 47.6 % $ 333 53.0 % The decrease in product gross margin was caused by the high mix of hardware versus software deals, which was driven by a few large transactions in the quarter. Product gross margins were also negatively impacted by foreign currency, a lower mix of our integrated data warehousing products, and a reduction in product volume. Services gross margin was positively impacted by the increased mix of higher margin maintenance revenue. This was more than offset by a decline in consulting services margins primarily due to the timing of work in process that will be recognized in future periods, and the investments we are making in our marketing applications and Teradata cloud capabilities. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 184 31.6 % $ 188 29.9 % Research and development expenses 63 10.8 % 56 8.9 % Total operating expenses $ 247 42.4 % $ 244 38.9 % The decrease in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense of $4 million is a result of the change in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by investments in demand creation resulting from our strategic investment initiatives. Research and Development ("R&D") expenses increased 13% due to additional investments in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, which includes R&D expense associated with our recent acquisitions. The increase in R&D expense was also caused by a decrease in capitalized software as compared to the prior year. Other Expense, net In millions 2015 2014 Loss on securities $ $ (8 ) Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (1 ) (1 ) Other 1 Other expense, net $ $ (7 ) Other expense in the first quarter of 2014 arose primarily from an $8 million impairment in the carrying value of an equity investment. 17 Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the United States and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2015 to be approximately 25% to 26% , which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2015 . The estimate also assumes that the U.S. Federal Research and Development Tax Credit (US R&D Tax Credit), which expired on December 31, 2014, will be retroactively reinstated sometime during 2015. If the credit is not reinstated during 2015, we estimate our effective tax rate will be negatively impacted by approximately 80 basis points. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 12%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the United States. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014 was 26.7% and 28.0% , respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by a higher percentage of forecasted foreign pre-tax earnings mix in the current period versus the prior period. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2015, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata now manages its business in two divisions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) data and analytics, and (2) marketing applications. This change will enable each division to be more sharply focused in rapidly addressing the dynamics of each market, and in bringing the best solutions to our customers. For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended March 31 : % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Segment revenue Data and Analytics $ 536 92.1 % $ 577 91.9 % Marketing Applications 46 7.9 % 51 8.1 % Total segment revenue $ 582 100 % $ 628 100 % Segment gross margin Data and Analytics $ 269 50.2 % $ 322 55.8 % Marketing Applications 18 39.1 % 23 45.1 % Total segment gross margin $ 287 49.3 % $ 345 54.9 % Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 7% in the first quarter of 2015 from the first quarter of 2014 , which included a 5% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Americas revenue was down 7% primarily driven by the timing of deals that moved out of the first quarter. The Americas decline in revenue was partially offset by 7% constant currency growth in International, led by strong growth in Western Europe. Gross margins were down from first quarter of 2014 due to the high mix of hardware versus software and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. 18 Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 10% in the first quarter of 2015 from the first quarter of 2014 . The revenue decrease included a 7% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease is primarily driven by investments in the cloud business as well as lower professional services margins, which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market and drive long-term growth in this business. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $121 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to timing of collections of receivables and lower net income. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, In millions 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 222 $ 343 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (17 ) (12 ) Additions to capitalized software (15 ) (21 ) Free cash flow $ 190 $ 310 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities in the first quarter of 2015 . In the first quarter of 2014 , these other investing activities primarily consisted of equity investment activities that were closed during the period. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, payments on credit facility borrowings, and proceeds from long-term debt. The Company purchased 6.3 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $43.34 in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2.0 million shares at an average price per share of $42.42 in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of March 31, 2015 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $131 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. On May 4, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an additional $300 million to be utilized to repurchase Teradata Corporation common stock under the Companys general share repurchase program, which resulted in a total of approximately $431 million authorized for share repurchases under this program as of that date. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. 19 Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $6 million and $7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Additionally, during the three months ended March 31, 2015 the Company repaid $220 million against the principal balance of its revolving credit facility, which is discussed further below. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $826 million as of March 31, 2015 and $785 million as of December 31, 2014 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $55 million as of March 31, 2015 and $49 million as of December 31, 2014 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of March 31, 2015 , we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Management believes current cash, Company cash flows from operations and its new $400 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2014 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term debt. On March 25, 2015, Teradata replaced its existing five -year, $300 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one -year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of March 31, 2015 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings on the Credit Facility, and was in compliance with all covenants. Also on March 25, 2015 , Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $600 million five -year term loan, the proceeds of which were used to pay off the remaining $247 million of principal on its existing term loan, pay off the $220 million outstanding balance on the prior credit facility, and to fund share repurchases. The $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which will commence on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of March 31, 2015 , the term loan principal outstanding was $600 million and carried an interest rate of 1.4375% . The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2015 . Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2014 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be 20 reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2014 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies. In connection with the change in segment reporting, the Company performed a goodwill impairment assessment during the first quarter of 2015. The Company reviewed four reporting units as each segment consisted of separate reporting units for the Americas and International regions. The goodwill impairment analysis did not result in an impairment. However, the marketing applications reporting units are at greater risk for impairment if actual results differ materially from projections. The amount of goodwill allocated to these reporting units was $579 million . New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.