Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward-looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata is a global leader in analytic data solutions and related services. Our analytic data solutions comprise software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services for analytics across a companys entire analytical ecosystem. We help customers access and manage data and extract business value and insight from their data. Our applications are designed to leverage data to help customers discover and exploit new insights such as: determining and maximizing customer and product profitability, more accurately forecasting consumer demand, and creating more predictable and less costly supply chains. Our consulting services allow customers to maximize use and obtain great value from their analytics investments. Our services include a broad range of offerings including consulting to help organizations design, optimize and manage their analytic and big data environments, either on-premises or in the cloud. Our value-added consulting services provide expertise in data architecture services, cloud ("software as a service", "analytics as a service"), private cloud, managed services, and related installation services. In addition to our consulting services we offer a comprehensive set of support services. We serve customers around the world across a broad set of industries, including communications, ecommerce, financial services, government, gaming, healthcare, insurance, manufacturing, media and entertainment, oil and gas, retail, travel and transportation, and utilities - with offerings ranging from small departmental implementations to many of the worlds largest analytic data platforms. To meet evolving trends in information management, we provide our offerings on-premises or in the cloud (as a service). 2016 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2016 : Revenue decreased 8% in 2016 from 2015 to $2,322 million . The year-over-year revenue comparison was negatively impacted by 1 percentage point from foreign currency fluctuations and the sale of the marketing applications business in 2016. Gross margin was 51.2% in 2016 , up from 50.4% in 2015 , which was largely due to improved deal mix and product mix. Operating income was $232 million in 2016 , up from operating loss of $(195) million in 2015 . The year-over-year increase was primarily due to more significant impairments of goodwill and acquired intangibles in 2015 than 2016, as well as a decrease in operating expenses. Net income of $125 million in 2016 versus a net loss of $(214) million in 2015 . Net income per diluted share was $0.95 in 2016 compared to net loss per common share of $(1.53) in 2015 . Net income for 2016 includes a $70 million after-tax impairment loss for goodwill and acquired intangibles, approximately $47 million in after-tax impacts of acquisition-related transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, compared to $502 million of such costs and expenses in 2015 . 28 Table of Contents STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Teradatas strategy is based around our core belief that analytics and data unleash the potential of great companies. We empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes through scalable analytics on an agile data foundation. Through our focus on leading with business outcomes and a consultative approach, our goal is to serve as a trusted advisor to both the business and technical leaders in our customers organizations. Our business analytics solutions are ideally suited for the worlds largest companies who have the most complex analytics requirements and the need to scale. Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to this target market through the following portfolio of solutions, including the following: Hybrid Cloud : leading technology and services to deliver an analytic ecosystem deployed in a hybrid cloud architecture, including offerings such as managed cloud, private cloud, public cloud, and on premises software and hardware. Business Analytics Solutions : deliver high-value business outcomes realized by engaging with business users through solution-based selling that leverages analytic consulting and repeatable analytical intellectual property ("IP"); Ecosystem Architecture Consulting : best-in-class architecture consulting expertise to help customers build optimized analytical ecosystems independent of technology, leveraging both open source and commercial solutions; and We deliver our solutions on-premises, via the cloud, and "as a service"; offering customers choice in how they deploy a Teradata analytics environment and leverage the power of our solutions. These flexible delivery options are designed to extend our market opportunity. In support of our strategy, we plan to optimize our go-to-market and sales approach to improve effectiveness in demand creation and address new and expanded market opportunities, such as with our consultative business solutions and cloud offerings. We will continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage. We believe that our more consultative, solution-selling approach and portfolio of offerings that support customers choice in procuring and deploying analytics will best position us to be our customers trusted advisor and partner of choice for architecting, implementing, and managing their analytic solutions. In summary, our long-term strategic objectives are to: deliver business outcomes for our customers through technology-enabled analytics at scale, by focusing on companies with the largest analytic opportunities, by offering market-leading hybrid cloud technology, that is enabled by a world class go-to-market sales and support team, with the ultimate goal of generating revenue, earnings, and cash flow growth. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that future demand for our analytic solutions will increase based on the growth of new, high volume data sources such as sensor and machine-generated data, and based on data and analytics enabled use cases in areas such as seismic/exploration, genomics and biological research, connected cars, and smart cities. Analytic environments are becoming more complex to design and manage as there are increasing types of analytic tools and techniques, multiple data management systems both on-premises and in the cloud, commercial and open source technologies to be integrated, varying service level requirements, and the growth and volume of data. This 29 Table of Contents complexity drives the need for an overall architecture to manage such environments. Demand for value-added consulting and services is growing as customers seek help with evolving their analytic architectures, rapidly deploying their analytic architectural solutions, and increasingly look to purchase analytic capabilities as a service". Overall, analytics are growing in importance as global businesses seek new means to drive business value from the ever-increasing amounts and types of data. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership status and investments in our strategic areas of focus will position us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Over the past few years, we have seen a shift in the market that included a reduction in customers large capital investments in traditional data analytic systems and related services. Specifically, customers have been focusing investments in their analytical ecosystems on products which have lower average selling prices than traditional integrated data warehouse ("IDW") environments, and changing their buying behavior with decisions shifting from IT to business users who typically want operating expense purchasing options. As a result, our revenue has been impacted by our customers focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription-based licenses, rental and usage-based models. In addition, an increasing percentage of our customers want to buy easy-to-use, vendor managed, on-line delivery as-a-service analytics rather than analytic systems. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenge for future revenue growth relates to our ability to adapt and respond to this market shift with respect to the way customers want to purchase and deploy analytic technologies. Overall, we believe that the IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems as well as the addition of new customers. Teradata has expanded our offerings as well as our pricing options to make it easier for customers to buy and expand with Teradata including flexible offerings including availability in the cloud and over time pricing programs. There is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could increase in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes the top focus and lower-cost/lower performing alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex analytic workloads to address customer's needed business outcomes from large-scale analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas portfolio of offerings. As the market continues to evolve, we will be challenged to generate revenue growth shorter term as customers purchase in smaller deal sizes, and more of our customers shift from upfront perpetual licenses to over time models at a pace which is difficult to predict. As described above, we are also transforming our go-to-market approach to better position Teradata with both business buyers and IT buyers, and to expand with our existing customers as well as add more customers. To meet this objective, we will focus on execution and monitoring our progress with respect to this evolution, as well as working to infuse talent into our organization with key skill sets to support our strategy. We continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and longer term will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In addition, we will continue to optimize our go-to-market structure to focus on the greatest analytic opportunities, and to manage our cost structure as we work to broaden our product and consulting services portfolios and market penetration. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States ("U.S."), and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of January 31, 2017, Teradata is expecting one point of negative impact from currency translation on our full year projected revenue growth rate. 30 Table of Contents BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Teradata continues to advance in the execution of its business transformation plan to return the Company to profitable growth. As described above, we are strengthening our consultative approach to selling data analytics that enable high-impact business outcomes for our customers and extend our portfolio of hybrid cloud solutions. We are also realigning our go-to-market approach to improve sales effectiveness and achieve better financial results. We will continue to invest and prioritize initiatives that strengthen our ability to be our customers trusted advisor for data and analytics. In addition, our broad-reaching transformation is intended to drive change across our Company, including in the following key areas: Cloud - We plan to continue to expand our data warehouse offerings in the public cloud and in Teradatas managed cloud environments. With our "Teradata Everywhere" initiative, we offer our customers greater flexibility and agility through the same Teradata database that we offer on premises, now in a managed cloud, public cloud, or private cloud environment. Teradata Everywhere is designed to speed time to value, save costs, and encourage analytics use throughout the organization. We are building new services for cloud migration as well as for design, implementation and management of cloud and hybrid cloud environments. On-premises data warehouse - We have introduced methods to make it easier to buy, expand, and seamlessly upgrade data warehouses. We expect that our IntelliFlex platform architecture, released in early 2016, will provide more flexible configurations and seamless expansions of our customers IDW environments, and that the software-only version of our Teradata database will allow us to expand with both new and existing customers. Analytical ecosystem - We are adding to our data load and integration software and service offerings capabilities that manage customers' analytical ecosystems with new products such as Teradata UnityTM, QueryGridTM, and ListenerTM. These offerings help connect and manage the customers' ecosystems to help manage and extract value from their data. We expect the mix of our revenues to shift toward cloud, analytical ecosystem, and analytic consulting services over time, as these are faster growing markets, which we believe will help increase our recurring revenue over time. Another element that is critical to Teradata's successful transformation plan is modifying our go-to-market efforts to a more consultative approach to better address the increasing relevance of business buyers and to help customers build analytical ecosystems that include our own technologies as well as open source and other commercial solutions. We have actions underway to adjust our go-to-market efforts to address these new approaches and to align with the way we believe that our customers want to buy data analytics solutions. We have reviewed and rationalized the Company's expense structure and are now moving from a cost reduction initiative to a cost management approach as we invest for Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. One of Teradatas key strategic initiatives is to enable analytics for companies by making it easier to buy and easier to grow from traditional on-premises deployments to hybrid cloud solutions. These hybrid solutions offer simplified and consistent approaches with operating expense alternatives in addition to traditional capital intensive outlays. This strategy should accelerate our move away from traditional, upfront revenue sales and deployment models to a model where revenue is recognized over time. As a result, the Companys revenue could decline in the short-term as customers transition to these purchasing models. Therefore, Teradata is introducing additional financial and performance measures to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives. These new financial and performance measures currently include the following: TCORE Growth - a measure of consumption of the Teradata database solution. It is based on the performance of a system as calculated by number of cores reduced by an input/output ("I/O") factor, recognizing that an I/O starved central processing unit ("CPU") will not provide optimum performance. 31 Table of Contents Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) - is the annual value at a point in time of all of our recurring contracts, including support, software upgrade rights, subscription licenses, rental and cloud. Recurring Revenue as a % of Total Revenue - revenue from all recurring contracts, including support, software upgrade rights, subscription licenses, rental and cloud divided by total Company revenue. Business Consulting Revenue Growth - revenue growth from our strategic service offerings around Analytics Consulting, Business Consulting, and Ecosystem Architecture consulting. Although the revenue from Business Consulting represents a small percent of total Company revenue, it is a leading indicator of future TCORE growth and measures our effectiveness of becoming a Trusted Advisor within our customers and targeted prospects. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016, 2015 AND 2014 Revenue % of % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Product revenue $ 889 38.3 % $ 1,057 41.8 % $ 1,227 44.9 % Service revenue 1,433 61.7 % 1,473 58.2 % 1,505 55.1 % Total revenue $ 2,322 100 % $ 2,530 100 % $ 2,732 100 % Total revenue decreased 8% in 2016 as compared to 2015. The revenue decrease included a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue decline was primarily due to customers increasingly opting for subscription-based (term) licenses, rental of hardware, and cloud adoption. This has an impact on the amount of revenue that is booked upfront versus over the term of the contract. In addition, the sale of the marketing applications business, which generated $69 million in revenue in 2016 (before the sale on July 1, 2016) compared to $153 million in 2015, had a negative impact on total revenue of 3%. Product revenue decreased 16% in 2016 from 2015 primarily due to customers increasingly opting for our subscription-based purchase options. Service revenue decreased 3% in 2016 from 2015, with an underlying 6% decrease in consulting services revenue and 1% increase in maintenance services revenue compared to 2015. Services revenue declined primarily due to the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016 and foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 2% adverse impact on services revenue. In 2015, total revenue decreased 7% as compared to 2014. The revenue decrease included a 5% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue decline was due primarily to constrained information technology budgets, extended sales cycles, and a reduction in large customer orders, as well as the impact currency translation had on reported revenue growth. Product revenue decreased 14% in 2015 from 2014 primarily due to a decrease in customers' large capital expenditures and foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 5% adverse impact on product revenue. Service revenue decreased 2% in 2015 from 2014, with an underlying 5% decrease in consulting services revenue and 1% increase in maintenance services revenue compared to 2014. Services revenue declined due to foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 6% adverse impact on services revenue. Gross Margin The Company often uses specific terms/definitions to describe variances in gross margin. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of products and services that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross margin even if total revenue remains unchanged. Services Mix - The proportion of higher-margin maintenance revenue versus lower-margin consulting revenue that generates the total services revenue of the Company. Product Mix - The proportion of various products that generate the total product revenue of the Company. For example, a higher mix of IDW products versus departmental data mart, Aster, our Extreme Data 32 Table of Contents Appliance or Hadoop products would have a positive impact on product gross margins. This definition also includes the mix of Company sourced and third party products. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period and includes such transactions as capacity on demand (COD), floor sweeps versus capacity additions, enterprise license agreements ("ELA"), hardware versus software, and discounting (new customers versus existing customers, large customers versus smaller customers). COD is a common offering used by Teradata and other information technology vendors that allows the customer to purchase extra capacity in the future, which is already delivered and integrated into their existing systems, typically within 12-18 months. COD enables customers to "activate" or add capacity quickly. Product cost is recognized upon delivery with no corresponding revenue. When customers activate the COD, we record and recognize the revenue associated with the added capacity and the gross margin is recovered. Floor sweeps take place when an existing customer replaces their older Teradata platform with a new Teradata platform, which can result in a large revenue transaction, but typically also results in a higher mix of lower-margin hardware revenue versus higher-margin software revenue. ELA transactions allow customers to purchase as much software as needed for current production use for a period of time in exchange for a fixed fee that is typically recognized as revenue upfront or as payments become due if the terms of the payments are extended. Additional capacity during the term results in lower-margin hardware revenue versus higher-margin software revenue. Gross margin for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: % of % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 537 60.4 % $ 617 58.4 % $ 784 63.9 % Service gross margin 651 45.4 % 659 44.7 % 695 46.2 % Total gross margin $ 1,188 51.2 % $ 1,276 50.4 % $ 1,479 54.1 % In 2016, product margin increased 2% points due to favorable deal and product mix. Service gross margin improved 1% points driven by the exiting of the marketing applications business which had a lower service margin rate than the Data and Analytics service rate. In 2015, product margin declined 5.5% points due to deal mix (including a higher mix of hardware versus software deals as well as pricing programs that are intended to make it easier to buy Teradata), foreign currency, a lower mix of integrated data warehousing products and a reduction in product volume. Service gross margin declined 1.5% points due to investments in our big data consulting capabilities, the marketing applications business (prior to the decision to exit this business), and investments in our Teradata cloud capabilities. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses % of % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 664 28.6 % $ 765 30.2 % $ 770 28.2 % Research and development expenses 212 9.1 % 228 9.0 % 206 7.5 % Impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets 80 3.4 % 478 18.9 % % Total operating expenses $ 956 41.2 % $ 1,471 58.1 % $ 976 35.7 % In 2016, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decreased by $101 million or 13% compared to 2015. The decrease is driven by the exit of the marketing applications business and cost reduction initiatives, partially offset by higher annual incentive payment accruals. Research and development ("R&D") expenses decreased $16 million or 7% in 2016 due to the exit of the marketing applications business and cost reduction initiatives partially offset by additional spending for strategic initiatives including further investment in our managed and public cloud offerings, Teradata software-only and our Intelliflex platform. In 2015, SG&A expense decreased by $5 million or 1% compared to 2014. The decrease is a result of the change in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by increased investments in demand creation resulting from our strategic investment initiatives. R&D expenses increased $22 million or 11% in 2015 due to additional investments in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, which included incremental expenses from acquisitions. The increase in R&D expense was also caused by a decrease in capitalized software of $7 million compared to 2014. The Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $57 million and acquired intangibles of $19 million in 2016 to adjust the marketing applications business, which was sold on July 1, 2016, to its fair value less cost to sell. In addition, the Company recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to the sale of its corporate plane. The Company recorded a goodwill impairment of $437 million and an impairment of acquired intangibles of $41 million in 2015, also related to the marketing applications business (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Other (Expense) Income, net In millions 2016 2015 2014 Gain (loss) on securities $ 2 $ 57 $ (9 ) Interest income 7 5 5 Interest expense (12 ) (9 ) (3 ) Other (8 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total Other (Expense) Income, net $ (11 ) $ 51 $ (9 ) In 2016, other expense included a foreign exchange loss of $9 million related to the devaluation of the Egyptian pound. The increase in interest expense and interest income compared to 2015 was due to an increase in interest rates. In 2015, other income primarily included a gain of $57 million from sale of equity investments. This was partially offset by an increase in interest expense due to an increase in debt. In 2014, other expense primarily included a loss of $9 million on an equity investment arising from an impairment of carrying value. 34 Table of Contents Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: 2016 2015 2014 Effective Tax Rate 43.4 % (48.6 )% 25.7 % The 2016 effective tax rate was impacted by the $57 million of goodwill impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2016, all of which were treated as a permanent non-deductible tax item. In addition, a discrete tax charge of $22 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2016 for the tax impact of the sale of the marketing applications business, which occurred on July 1, 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recorded $8 million of tax expense associated with the issuance of new U.S. Treasury Regulations under Internal Revenue Code Section 987 on December 7, 2016, which clarified how companies calculate foreign currency translation gains and losses for income tax purposes for branches whose accounting records are kept in a currency other than the currency of the company. Also in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company elected to early adopt Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. As a result, the Company incurred a $5 million discrete tax expense associated with the net shortfall arising from 2016 equity compensation vestings and exercises. The 2015 effective tax rate was impacted by the $437 million of goodwill impairment charges recorded for 2015, of which $414 million was treated as a permanent non-deductible tax item. This resulted in full-year income tax expense in 2015 of $70 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $(144) million, causing a negative tax rate of 48.6%. There were no material discrete tax items impacting the effective tax rate for full year 2014. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2016, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which it now manages the Company's business under two geographic regions and the marketing applications division (prior to its sale on July 1, 2016); which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas Data and Analytics (North America and Latin America); (2) International Data and Analytics (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan); and (3) Marketing Applications. Effective July 1, 2016, following the sale of the marketing applications business, Teradata is managing its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: 35 Table of Contents % of % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 1,334 57.4 % $ 1,470 58.2 % $ 1,534 56.2 % International Data and Analytics 919 39.6 % 907 35.8 % 1,034 37.8 % Total Data and Analytics 2,253 97.0 % 2,377 94.0 % 2,568 94.0 % Marketing Applications 69 3.0 % 153 6.0 % 164 6.0 % Total segment revenue $ 2,322 100 % $ 2,530 100 % $ 2,732 100 % Segment gross margin Americas Data and Analytics $ 754 56.5 % $ 824 56.1 % $ 917 59.8 % International Data and Analytics 425 46.2 % 429 47.3 % 523 50.6 % Total Data and Analytics 1,179 52.3 % 1,253 52.7 % 1,440 56.1 % Marketing Applications 33 47.8 % 63 41.2 % 78 47.6 % Total segment gross margin $ 1,212 52.2 % $ 1,316 52.0 % $ 1,518 55.6 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 9% as customers continue to evaluate lower cost (and less capital intensive) alternatives as well as our new purchasing and deployment options. As discussed in the future trends section of this MD&A, the revenue decline was driven by our customers' focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription licenses, rental and usage-based models, which results in revenue being recognized over time instead of upfront. Segment gross margins as a percentage of revenue were higher driven by an increase in product gross margin. The increase in the product gross margin was driven by favorable deal and product mix. In 2015, revenue was down 4% primarily driven by a decrease in customer large capital expenditure transactions. The results included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins as a percentage of revenue were down in 2015 compared to 2014 due to the high mix of hardware versus software deals and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased by 1%, which included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was led by good growth in Western Europe and China. Gross margins were down due to a higher mix of service revenue, which has a lower margin profile versus product revenue. In 2015, revenue was down 12%, which was almost entirely due to a 11% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuation. Gross margins were down due to lower revenue volume from foreign currency fluctuations and a higher mix of service revenue, which has a lower margin profile versus product revenue. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased by $84 million or 55% in 2016 from 2015. The decline in revenue was driven by the divestiture of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Prior to its divestiture, the overall segment gross margin increase was primarily driven by higher product and professional services margins. In 2015, the Company made investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market, which resulted in lower service margins in 2015. In 2015, revenue decreased $11 million or 7% from 2014. The revenue decrease included a 6% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease in 2015 from 2014 is primarily driven by investments in the cloud business as well as lower professional services margins, which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market and drive long-term growth in this business. 36 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2016 with $ 974 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $ 135 million increase from the December 31, 2015 balance, after using approximately $82 million for repurchases of Company common stock, and approximately $16 million for acquisitions and investment activities which were completed during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $45 million to $446 million in 2016 . The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to favorable changes in net working capital, primarily due to a larger collection of receivables as compared to the prior year. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2016 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 446 $ 401 $ 680 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (53 ) (52 ) (54 ) Additions to capitalized software (65 ) (68 ) (75 ) Free cash flow $ 328 $ 281 $ 551 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. In 2016 and 2015 , these other investing activities primarily consisted of immaterial complementary business acquisitions and equity investment activities that were closed during these years along with the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2016 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $82 million for share repurchases, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $180 million, repayment of existing term loan of $30 million and $30 million from other financing activities, net of tax paid for shares withheld upon equity award settlement. Teradata's financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $657 million for share repurchases, proceeds from credit facility borrowings of $180 million, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $220 million, and proceeds from a new term loan of $600 million and repayment of an existing term loan of $247 million. The Company purchased 3.4 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $24.25 in 2016, 19 million shares at an average price per share of $34.15 in 2015, and 13 million shares at an average price per share of $43.09 in 2014. Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. On February 6, 2012, the board approved a new $300 million share repurchase authorization to replace a prior $300 million authorization (the general share repurchase program), that was to expire on February 10, 2012. Since February 2012, Teradatas Board of Directors has approved, in $300 million increments, additional share repurchase authorizations for a total of $2.0 billion under the Companys general share repurchase program on each of the following dates: December 37 Table of Contents 10, 2012, October 14, 2013, May 5, 2014, December 18, 2014 and May 4, 2015. An additional share repurchase authorization of $500 million was approved by the board on August 20, 2015. As of December 31, 2016 , the Company had $512 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock under the general share repurchase program. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions, as well as merger and acquisition opportunities. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $31 million in 2016, $24 million in 2015 and $29 million in 2014. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries was $957 million as of December 31, 2016 and $819 million as of December 31, 2015 . The remaining balance held in the U.S. was $17 million as of December 31, 2016 and $20 million as of December 31, 2015 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and potential foreign withholding taxes. As of December 31, 2016, we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1.3 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. On March 25, 2015, Teradata replaced its existing five-year, $300 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In 2016 , Teradata chose a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had no outstanding borrowings on the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2016 . Also on March 25, 2015, Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $600 million five-year term loan, the proceeds of which were used to pay off the remaining $247 million of principal on its existing term loan, pay off the $220 million outstanding balance on the prior credit facility, and fund share repurchases. The $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016, with all remaining principal due in March 2020. The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2016 , the term loan principal outstanding was $570 million and carried an interest rate of 2.1875%. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2016. Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, severance benefits and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. 38 Table of Contents Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2016 , with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2018- 2020- 2022 and In millions Amounts 2017 2019 2021 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term debt $ 570 $ 30 $ 127 $ 413 $ Interest payments on long-term debt 36 13 21 2 Lease obligations 67 22 28 9 8 Purchase obligations 17 7 8 2 Total debt, lease and purchase obligations $ 690 $ 72 $ 184 $ 426 $ 8 Our principal payments on long-term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $600 million term loan and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long-term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate as of December 31, 2016 . As of December 31, 2016, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Our lease obligations in the above table include Company facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, the Company has $20 million in total uncertain tax positions recorded as non-current liabilities on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 . These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities. However, it is not expected that any payments will be due within the next 12 months. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third-party guarantees are described in detail in Note 8Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 6Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. 39 Table of Contents In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all deliverables of the arrangement, and in determining the relative selling price of each deliverable, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. The Company reviews the relative selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the year ended December 31, 2016 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the relative selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Capitalized Software Costs incurred in researching and developing a computer software product that will be sold, leased or otherwise marketed are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design or for agile development activities, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuations in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company began moving towards more frequent releases of its products, which significantly shortens the opportunity to capitalize software development costs. Our research and development efforts have become more driven by market requirements and rapidly changing customers' needs. In addition, the Company started applying agile development methodologies to help respond to new technologies and trends. Agile development methodologies are characterized by a more dynamic development process with more frequent and iterative revisions to a product releases' features and functions as the software is being developed. Due to the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, the Company does not anticipate capitalizing significant amounts of external use software development costs in future periods due to the relatively short duration between the completion of the working model and the point at which a product is ready for general release. Prior capitalized costs will continue to be amortized under the greater of revenue-based or straight-line method over the estimated useful life. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities 40 Table of Contents are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the U.S. As a result, the effective tax rates are largely based upon the pre-tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business. These jurisdictions apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates; the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate is currently 35% as compared to the overall statutory effective tax rate of our various foreign jurisdictions of approximately 12%. As of December 31, 2016 , the Company has not provided for federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $1.3 billion from its foreign subsidiaries. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2016 , the Company has a total of $30 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $20 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability. The remaining balance of $10 million of uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes both generated by the Company and acquired in various acquisitions, which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We recorded $26 million in 2016 and $25 million in 2015 for valuation allowances. Due to a change in tax law enacted in the state of California in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company established a valuation allowance to partially offset its California R&D tax credit carryforward deferred tax asset, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California R&D tax credits into the foreseeable future. Stock-based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize pricing models, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation at the date of grant. These valuation models require the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. In addition, we issue performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The Company tests goodwill by first performing a qualitative analysis (Step 0) to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying value. Qualitative factors may include, but are not limited to, economic, market and industry conditions, and overall financial performance of the reporting unit. If the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying value after assessing these qualitative factors, then the guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and 41 Table of Contents earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the second step of the impairment test is performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. The implied fair value of the goodwill in step two analysis is determined by the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations which requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities and to allocate the fair value between net assets and goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. Teradata reviewed two reporting units in its 2016 goodwill impairment assessment, as each operating segment was deemed as a reporting unit for purposes of testing. Based on the Company's evaluation and weighting of the events and circumstances that have occurred since the most recent Step 1 test, the Company concluded that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit was below its carrying value. Therefore, the Company determined that it was not necessary to perform a Step 1 goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in 2016. See Note 3Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets" for additional information. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the Company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate any excess purchase price consideration between net assets and goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2016 , a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $6 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $11 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference. 42 Table of Contents