Management Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). Compensation and Benefits. A key to our attraction, retention, and engagement strategies are the robust compensation and benefit programs we provide that are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of a global and diverse workforce. In addition to our competitive base pay, these programs (which vary by country/region) include sales incentives, annual bonuses, stock awards, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a 401(k) Savings Plan with a company match, healthcare and insurance benefits, paid time off, family leave, and paid parental leave. As an example of our commitment to DEI, we ensure that all of our benefits provide coverage for domestic partners. Talent Development. Teradata is committed to supporting the professional development of our employees by providing resources and tools that enable employees to manage their careers. Our talent programs provide employees with the resources to develop their careers, build leadership skills, and lead within their organizations. We have launched on-demand learning resources, such as LinkedIn Learning and Country Navigator, which give employees flexibility in when and how they learn. Our Learning Labs focus on understanding Culture Transformation and our Core Principles, Inclusive Leadership, and Building Your Personal Brand. We also provide executive and leadership development programs to help develop leaders at all levels. Community Engagement. We believe that building connections between our employees, their families, and our communities creates a more meaningful, fulfilling, and enjoyable workplace. We support local STEM education programs to ensure emerging leaders in our communities have opportunities to explore their interests. Our Teradata Cares program empowers our employees to help build strong and vibrant communities, improve quality of life, and make a positive difference where we live and work through volunteerism and giving. We support our employees giving and volunteer efforts by providing matching donations for employee contributions to qualified not-for-profit agencies, project grants, Annual Days of Caring, and supporting communities where we have employee populations. To further enable employees to support the charity of their choice, we afford every employee four days a year, during normal working hours, for volunteer efforts of their choice. Properties and Facilities. Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California. As of December 31, 2021, we operated 58 facilities in 32 countries throughout the world. We own our San Diego complex, while all other facilities are leased. 11 Table of Contents Information About Our Executive Officers. The following table and biographies sets forth information as of February 25, 2022 regarding the individuals who are serving as our executive officers. Name Age Position(s) Stephen McMillan 51 President and Chief Executive Officer Hillary Ashton 50 Chief Product Officer Claire Bramley 44 Chief Financial Officer Todd Cione 52 Chief Revenue Officer Kathleen Cullen-Cote 57 Chief Human Resources Officer Michael Hutchinson 56 Chief Customer Officer Margaret Treese 55 Chief Legal Officer Jacqueline Woods 60 Chief Marketing Officer Stephen McMillan . Stephen McMillan is the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer and has served in this role since joining the Company in June 2020. Mr. McMillan has served on the Companys Board of Directors since June 2020. Previously, he served as the Executive Vice President of Global Services for F5 Networks, Inc., a transnational company that specializes in application services and application delivery networking, from October 2017 when he joined F5 until May 2020. Prior to joining F5, from September 2015 until October 2017, he was Senior Vice President, Customer Success and Managed Cloud Services at Oracle, where he was responsible for developing, overseeing, and expanding a customer success organization focused on the companys strategic SaaS portfolio. From May 2012 to September 2015, he served as Senior Vice President, Managed Cloud Services at Oracle. Prior to joining Oracle, Mr. McMillan spent 19 years at IBM, where he held a number of leadership roles focused on global managed services, consulting, and IT. Hillary Ashton . Hillary Ashton is the Companys Chief Product Officer and has served in this role since August 2020. Prior to that Ms. Ashton served as the Executive Vice President of Teradata Products from November 2019, when she joined the Company, until August 2020. Prior to joining Teradata, she served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of PTCs Augmented Reality (AR) business unit from July 2018 until November 2019. In this role, she was responsible for all operational aspects of the Vuforia business and its product lines, including executive leadership and vision, strategy, sales, and marketing. From 2014 to 2018, she served as SVP of Analytics SaaS solutions at Manthan and as Director, Customer Intelligence Solutions at SAS from 2003 to 2014. Claire Bramley. Claire Bramley is the Company's Chief Financial Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in June 2021. She served as the Global Controller for HP Inc. from December 2018 until June 2021. From June 2015 until December 2018, she served as HP's Regional Head for Finance for EMEA, and from January 2013 to May 2015, she served as Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis at HP. Prior to that, Ms. Bramley served as HP's Finance Director of Worldwide Personal Systems Financial Planning & Analysis from September 2011 to December 2012. Todd Cione . Todd Cione is the Companys Chief Revenue Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in January 2021. Mr. Cione served as the Head of U.S. Enterprise Accounts for Apple, Inc., from the time he joined the company in July 2017 until December 2020. Prior to joining Apple, from 2016 until 2017, he was Senior Vice President, Oracle Digital, North America Applications, and from 2013 to 2015, he served as Chief Revenue Officer at Rackspace. Prior to joining Rackspace, Mr. Cione spent 15 years at Microsoft, where he most recently served as the Asia-Pacific Chief Operating Officer, based in Singapore. Kathleen Cullen-Cote . Kathleen Cullen-Cote is the Companys Chief Human Resources Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in July 2019. Prior to joining Teradata, Ms. Cullen-Cote served in human resource leadership roles at PTC Inc., a global computer software and services company, from 2002 to June 2019, including Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from April 2019 to July 2019; Corporate Vice President, Human Resources from 2012 until March 2019; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, from December 2010 to 2012; and Vice President, Human Resources, from October 2009 until December 2010. Prior to that, Ms. Cullen-Cote served in human resource leadership roles at Imark Communications, Johnson and Johnson, Raytheon, and Barry Controls. 12 Table of Contents Michael Hutchinson. Michael Hutchinson is the Company's Chief Customer Officer and has served in this role since January 2022. Previously, from June 2021 when he joined the Company until December 2022, he served as Senior Vice President World-Wide Customer Success, Consulting and Renewals. Prior to joining Teradata, Mr. Hutchinson served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Customer Officer at Verint from August 2020 to May 2021 and as its Senior Vice President, Global Professional Services and Support from April 2018 until August 2020. From 1990-2018, he held several positions with Oracle Corporation most recently as the Group Vice President, North America Customer Success from December 2015 to March 2018. Margaret Treese. Margaret Treese is the Companys Chief Legal Officer and has served in this role since November 2020. Previously, from 2018 until January 2020, she served as Teradatas Deputy General Counsel and Secretary. From 2007 until 2018, she served as the Chief Corporate and Governance Counsel and Assistant Secretary and was named Corporate Secretary of Teradata in 2018. Prior to joining Teradata, from 1995 to 2007, Ms. Treese held positions of increasing responsibility at NCR, including Law Vice President and Chief Americas Region Counsel for the Teradata Division Law Group, Chief Corporate Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Jacqueline Woods. Jacqueline Woods is the Company's Chief Marketing Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in December 2021. Previously, she served as the Global Chief Marketing Officer for NeilsenIQ from 2019 until November 2021. Prior to that, Ms. Woods was with IBM Corporation serving as the company's Chief Marketing Officer of IBM Global Partner Ecosystem Division from 2017 until 2019, the Chief Marketing Officer of IBM Global Financing from 2015 until 2017, and held other executive roles at IBM between 2010-2015. Ms. Woods also serves on the Board of Directors of Winnebago Industries, Inc. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or directors of Teradata. There are no contractual obligations regarding the election of our executive officers or directors. Information. Teradata makes available through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). These reports and other information are available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov . Teradata will furnish, without charge to a security holder upon written request, the Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Teradata will furnish the Code of Conduct and any other exhibit at cost (the Code of Conduct is also available through Teradatas website at http://www.teradata.com/code-of-conduct/). Document requests are available by calling or writing to: Teradata - Investor Relations 17095 Via Del Campo San Diego, CA 92127 Phone: 858-485-2088 Website: www.teradata.com Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Annual Report. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or occurrences, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 13 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Our failure to successfully execute our cloud-first strategy and achieve the anticipated benefits of our business transformation, which includes successfully developing and launching cloud-based products and product enhancements and/or enabling our data platform to operate effectively in cloud environments, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, brand and reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The successful implementation of our cloud-first strategy and completion of our business transformation presents organizational and infrastructure challenges. We may not be able to implement and realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from our strategy or our business transformation plan on a timely basis, or at all. Even if the anticipated benefits and savings are substantially realized, there may be unforeseen consequences, internal control issues, or business impacts. Additionally, because of our restructuring efforts in connection with our business transformation, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge or loss of efficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring may require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating activities and growing our business. A core component of our business strategy is to expand and enhance our product offerings, particularly for analytic solutions in a cloud-based environment, to include newer features, functionality, and development options and to keep pace with price-to-performance gains. Shortened product life cycles due to customer demands and competitive pressures impact the pace at which we must introduce and implement new technology as part of our product offerings. This requires a high-level anticipation of customer needs and technology trends, as well as innovation by both our software developers and the suppliers of the third-party software components included in our solutions. In addition, bringing new offerings to the market entails a costly and lengthy process, may increase our risk of liability and cause us to incur significant technical, legal or other costs. It is uncertain whether these new offerings and deployment models will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary business models, infrastructure and systems to support the business. This includes acquiring, retaining and developing the right people to execute our business strategy in a competitive job market. In addition, market acceptance of new product and service offerings will be dependent in part on our ability to include functionality and usability that address customer requirements, and to optimally price our offerings and services to meet customer demand and cover our costs. Our go-to-market, cloud, and multi-cloud strategies also must adjust to customers' changing buying preferences, and there can be no assurance that our go-to-market approach will adequately and completely address such preferences. As part of our business strategy, we also continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our R&D efforts in order to maintain and advance our competitive position, including our initiatives to provide and improve our offerings for cloud environments and to enable our data platform to operate effectively in cloud environments. However, we may not receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. R&D expenses represent a significant portion of our discretionary fixed costs. If we are unable to successfully execute on our cloud-first strategy and/or continue to respond to market demands, develop leading technologies, timely deliver offerings to the market, and maintain our leadership in analytic data solutions performance and scalability, our competitive position, business, brand and reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. As we develop new offerings with enhanced capacity, delivery and performance capabilities, the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these offerings may increase the likelihood of reliability, quality, operability, and/or security issues. From time to time, errors or security flaws are identified in our offerings, which in certain cases are discovered after the offerings are introduced and delivered to customers. This risk is enhanced when offerings are first introduced or when new versions are released. In particular, when we develop offerings with more advanced technology, the production of such offerings involve increased difficulty and complexity and as a result may increase the likelihood of reliability, quality, operability, and/or security issues with such offerings. Our products and services may also fail to perform to the full specifications and expectations of our customers, including as part of transitioning customers to the cloud, in particular those that involve customer and/or third-party dependencies. Additionally, third-party 14 Table of Contents components that we integrate into our solutions can have undetected quality issues that can impact the performance of our offerings. We may not be able to detect or remedy all errors, including those that may be deemed critical by our customers, prior to release or deployment. Such reliability, quality, operability, and security issues may negatively impact our ability to retain current customers, including due to customer cancellations or non-renewals, as well as our ability to obtain new customers and could expose us to liability, performance and warranty claims, as well as harm our brand and reputation. These and other risks associated with new offerings may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and future performance. If our existing customers fail to renew, or cancel, their subscription license arrangements or support agreements, or if customers do not renew on terms favorable to us, our business could be adversely affected. Teradatas platform offerings have been expanded to include a variety of subscription options, which impact the timing of when revenues are recognized and related cash flows are collected. In addition, with our transition to subscription revenues, we currently derive a significant portion of our overall revenues from subscription services in which we have limited renewal experience, which carries additional risk. The IT industry generally has been experiencing increasing pricing pressure from customers when purchasing or renewing support agreements. In addition, as our on-premises customers migrate all or a portion of their data analytics solutions to a cloud-based environment, some customers may select a cloud-based offering of one of our competitors and consequently cancel all or a portion of their arrangements with us. Mergers and acquisitions in certain industries that we serve could result in a reduction of the software and hardware being supported and put pressure on our subscription and support terms with customers who have merged. Given these factors, there can be no assurance that our current customers will renew their subscription and/or support agreements or agree to the same terms when they renew, which could result in our reducing or losing subscription and/or support fees which could adversely impact operating results. Unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles makes accurate estimation of our revenues difficult and could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The length of our sales cycle varies depending on several factors over which we may have little or no control, including the size and complexity of a potential transaction, whether a sale involves a cloud offering, the level of competition that we encounter in our selling activities and our current and potential customers internal budgeting and approval process, as well as overall macro-economic conditions. Because of a generally long sales cycle, we may expend significant effort over a long period of time in an attempt to obtain an order, but ultimately not complete the sale, or the order ultimately received may be smaller than anticipated. The long sales cycle for our products also makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our results for any particular period. We may experience variability in our operating results based on the purchasing behavior of our customers. Our business has substantially shifted from traditional, perpetual pricing and revenue model to a subscription-based model in which less revenue is recognized upfront at the time the customer enters into a transaction. The pace and extent to which customers will continue to purchase and renew our offerings on a subscription basis is variable and, therefore, has impacts on our results and operations. In addition, we have flexible pricing options for our cloud customers, including consumption-based, "pay as you go" pricing. Under such a pricing model, we generally recognize revenue based on consumption. To the extent that customers opt for such a flexible pricing model, we may not be able to accurately forecast the timing of customer consumption of our offerings. As a result, our actual results may differ from our projections. Furthermore, our on-premises subscription arrangements may provide the customers with the right to cancel our agreement upon certain notice periods, which we may change in the future. Such arrangements may impact the timing of revenue recognition for these customers and result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Demand for the offerings and services we sell could decline if we fail to maintain positive brand perception and recognition. We strive to maintain a brand that reflects our commitment to customer service and innovation. We believe that recognition and the reputation of our brand is key to our success, including our ability to retain our existing 15 Table of Contents customers and attract new customers. We have a distinguished history as an on-premises platform provider and one of our strategic objectives is to establish our position in the cloud market. A misperception in the market regarding our cloud capabilities could negatively impact our ability to migrate existing on-premises customers to our cloud-based solutions and/or acquire new customers for our cloud business. In addition, damage to the reputation of our brands could result in, among other things, declines in customer loyalty, customer cancellations or non-renewals, lower employee retention and productivity, and vendor relationship issues, all of which could materially affect our revenue and profitability. Our future results depend in part on our relationships with key suppliers, strategic partners and other third parties. Our development, marketing, and distribution plans depend in part on our ability to form strategic alliances with third parties that have complementary offerings, software, services, and skills. Our strategic partners include consultants and system integrators, software and technology providers, hardware support service providers, and indirect channel distributors in certain countries. These relationships involve risks, including our partners changing their business focus, entering strategic alliances with other companies, being acquired by our competitors, failing to meet performance criteria or improperly using our confidential information. If we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with strategic partners or if we are forced to seek alternative technology or technology for new solutions that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, our business may be adversely affected. As part of our cloud-first strategy, the growth of our business is dependent on our relationships with public cloud service providers, Amazon, Google, and Microsoft. Our strategic partnerships with Amazon, Google and Microsoft for our cloud offerings on AWS, Google and Azure, respectively, require significant investments to ensure that our solutions are optimized in these cloud environments. In addition, these cloud service providers maintain relationships with certain of our competitors, and our competitors may in the future establish relationships with additional competing cloud data platform providers. Any of these cloud service providers may decide to modify or terminate our business relationship or may otherwise enter into preferred relationships with one or more competing cloud data platform providers. If we are unsuccessful in meeting performance requirements or obtaining future returns on these investments, or if we are otherwise unable to maintain adequate relationships with any of these cloud service providers, our financial results may be adversely impacted. Third-party vendors provide important elements to our solutions; if we do not maintain our relationships with these vendors or if these vendors cease to be going concerns, interruptions in the supply of our offerings may result. There are some components of our solutions that we purchase from single sources due to price, quality, technology or other reasons. For example, we rely on Flex as a key single source contract manufacturer for our on-premises hardware systems. In addition, we buy servers from Dell Technologies Inc. and storage disk systems from NetApp, Inc. Some components supplied by third parties may be critical to our solutions, and several of our suppliers may terminate their agreements with us without cause with 180-days' notice. In addition, we rely on certain vendors for hardware support services and parts supply. If we were unable to purchase necessary services, parts, components or offerings from a particular vendor and had to find an alternative supplier, our shipments and deliveries could be delayed. Also, quality issues, commodity, transportation, wage, or other inflationary pressures, a disruption in our supply chain or the need to find alternative suppliers could impact the costs and/or timing associated with procuring necessary offerings, components and services. In any case, our operations could be adversely impacted. Similarly, our suppliers offerings and services have certain dependencies with respect to their own supply chain networks, and supply and/or inflation issues among our suppliers may also adversely impact our business. A breach of security, disruption, or failure of our information systems or those of our third-party providers could adversely impact our business and financial results. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our databases (and the computer equipment and database information of certain suppliers and other third parties) from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, cyber-attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusions or exploitations, malicious or unintended insider actions that cause loss of data or loss of systems, including phishing schemes, and other events. The occurrence of one or more of these events could result in system failures and other interruptions in our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our 16 Table of Contents business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we offer the ability for our employees to choose a remote work location. This increases vulnerability to our systems as additional endpoints need to be managed. Prior to our transition to a subscription-based business, our customers generally purchased or leased on-premises hardware systems used in connection with our software solutions, which our customers deployed and operated. With respect to these types of customer on-premises solutions, the customer, directly or through its selected services providers, manages all aspects of the data controls and security with respect to any confidential, private or otherwise sensitive information stored or processed through these solutions, including any personally identifiable data or information, such as non-public data regarding our customers employees, customers' customers, consumers, data subjects, individuals identities, individual financial accounts and health information. By contrast, our software-as-a-service or cloud offerings generally require us to deploy or operate solutions for our customers, directly or through the use of third-party services providers, either on-premises at customer-selected data center facilities, or at third-party-hosted data center facilities. With respect to these cloud and software-as-a-service offerings, we and such service providers have increased roles, responsibilities and risk exposures regarding some or all aspects of the data controls and security with respect to any confidential, private or otherwise sensitive information stored or processed through these solutions on our systems or those of selected third-party providers. If unauthorized access to or use of such information or systems occurs, despite data security measures and third-party commitments to protect them, our results of operation, reputation, and relationships with our customers could be adversely impacted. Experienced computer programmers, Nation State Sponsored Advanced Persistent Code ("NSSAPC") attackers (from countries such as Iran, China, Russia and certain European Eastern Bloc countries) and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security or that of our third-party providers and misappropriate or compromise our intellectual property or other confidential information or that of our customers, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our offerings or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our offerings. In addition, phishing-scheme-perpetrators may be able to lure employees or contractors into providing such perpetrators with information that may enable them to avoid some of our network security controls or those of third-party providers which could result in system disruptions or a loss of confidential and proprietary information. We have been subject to actual and potential cyber-attacks, and there can be no assurance that our defensive measures will be adequate to prevent them in the future. There is risk that these types of activities will recur and persist, that one or more of them may be successful in the future, that one or more of them may have been or will be successful but not detected, prevented, remediated or mitigated by us, and the costs to us to eliminate, detect, prevent, remediate, mitigate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, viruses, worms, malicious software programs, phishing schemes and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could adversely impact our future results of operations. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage to cover certain liabilities related to cyber attacks and/or data breaches, such coverage may not adequately cover all costs, expenses, liability and damages that we or our customers may incur as a result of such incidents. Increases in the cost of components used in our product, employee compensation, and/or increases in our other costs of doing business, have, and could continue to, adversely affect our profit margins. Our hardware components are assembled and configured by Flex. Flex also procures a wide variety of components used in the assembly process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, we utilize preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost and delivery. Components used in our products require commodities as part of their manufacturing. In addition, we have a global employee population. As such, increased costs, including as a result of COVID-19 and/or commodity and other inflation, and/or increased tariffs on certain items imported from foreign countries have affected our profit margins and could continue to result in declines in our profit margins. Historically, we have mitigated certain cost increases, in part, by increasing prices on some of our products and collaborating with suppliers, in particular Flex, reviewing alternative sourcing options, and engaging in internal cost reduction efforts, all as appropriate. However, we may not be able to fully offset increased costs. Further, if any price increases we adopt are not accepted by our customers and the market, our net sales, profit margins, earnings, and market share could be adversely affected. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting and accounting practices could lead to errors, which could adversely impact our ability to assure timely and accurate financial reporting. 17 Table of Contents Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control objectives will be met. These inherent limitations include system errors, the potential for human error and unauthorized actions of employees or contractors, inadequacy of controls, temporary lapses in controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight of resources, and other factors. Consequently, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial results as required under the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") rules, which could increase our operating costs or impair our ability to operate our business. Controls may also become inadequate due to changes in circumstances, and it is necessary to replace, upgrade or modify our internal information systems from time to time. In addition, unforeseen risks may arise in connection with financial reporting systems due to inefficient business processes, business process reengineering projects, or changes in accounting standards. If management is not successful in maintaining a strong internal control environment, material weaknesses could occur, causing investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could lead to a decline in our stock price, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future, and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. Our business is affected by the global economies in which we operate and the economic climate of the industries we serve. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. In particular, the IT industry in which we operate is susceptible to significant changes in the strength of the economy and the financial health of companies and governmental entities that make spending commitments for new technologies. Accordingly, adverse global economic, inflationary, and market conditions, including in certain economic sectors in which many of our customers operate (such as retail, manufacturing, financial services or government), may adversely impact our business. For example, adverse changes to the economy could impact the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers or the ability of our customers to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, decreased or more closely scrutinized spending in our customers businesses and in the industries we serve, may adversely impact our business. Uncertainty about future economic conditions may make it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. In addition, our inability or failure to quickly respond to inflation and the resulting buying behaviors of our customers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Companys success in periods of economic uncertainty may also be dependent, in part, on our ability to reduce costs in response to changes in demand, inflation or other activity. Generating substantial revenues from our international operations poses several risks. In 2021, the percentage of our total revenues from outside of the United States was 52%. We have exposure to more than 30 functional currencies. The risks associated with the geographic scope of our business operations include, among other things the following: Cultural, management, and staffing challenges associated with operating in countries around the world, including developing countries; The imposition of additional and/or different governmental controls and regulations; Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; Fluctuations in the value of local currencies; Tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment; Foreign trade policy changes, trade regulations, and/or disputes may adversely affect sales of our solutions and services and may result in longer sales cycles; The imposition of sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit our business; and Foreign government activities that favor domestic companies, including those that may require companies to procure goods and services from locally-based suppliers. Any of these events, among others, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Our offerings are subject to United States export controls and, when exported from the United States, or re-exported to another country, must be authorized under applicable United States export regulations. Changes in our offerings or changes in export regulations may create delays in the introduction of our offerings in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our offerings throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export of our offerings to certain countries or customers altogether. Any change in export regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by these regulations could result in decreased use of our offerings by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our offerings to, existing or potential customers with international operations. There is active enforcement and ongoing focus by the SEC and other governmental authorities on the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws in other countries. Given the breadth and scope of our international operations, we may not be able to detect improper or unlawful conduct by our international partners and employees, despite our high ethics, governance and compliance standards, which could put the Company at risk regarding possible violations of such laws and could result in various civil or criminal fines, penalties or administrative sanctions, and related costs, which could negatively impact the Company's business, brand, results of operations or financial condition. The Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition could in the future be materially adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic in the future affects our business, financial condition, and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the unprecedented pandemic, its severity, the development of one or more COVID-19 variants, the actions to contain the virus or respond to its impact, the successful distribution of vaccines and their effectiveness, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. The COVID-19 pandemic or any other adverse public health development could also inhibit our ability to execute our strategic initiatives including, without limitation, improving the experience of our customers, investing in identified strategic growth platforms, and shifting the mix of revenue in our business to cloud as well as subscription revenue. Furthermore, negative economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted, and may in the future impact our ability to close transactions and/or collect receivables from customers on a timely basis, or at all; and may also impact our customers' willingness to maintain or increase spending on data analytics, their ability to obtain adequate financing for the purchase of our products and services, or the amount of disposable income available to consumers, which may adversely impact the businesses of our customers in consumer-facing industries. In addition, we have experienced, especially at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, delays and cancellations of consulting projects due to work from home and also because of the discretionary nature of consulting projects which were delayed or suspended as a result of more conservative spending patterns by our customers in light of the economic impacts of the pandemic. Further, the global supply chain risks present a level of uncertainty to our global business and operations due to the international and domestic pandemic recovery efforts. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to implement new programs and modify our business practices, and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine is in the best interests of our employees, customers, distributors, suppliers and contractors. There is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus, and our ability to perform critical functions could be harmed. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience adverse impacts to our business, including as a result of any economic recession that may occur in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic could also exacerbate or trigger other risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition . Our business and operations could be disrupted by weather conditions, including conditions exacerbated by global climate change. 19 Table of Contents We are a global business, as such, weather conditions in a particular geographic region could disrupt our business and operations in that geographic region or in others, as well as those of our customers, supply chains, data warehouses, distribution channels, and public cloud infrastructure providers. Examples of w eather conditions that could impact our business and operations include tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis, typhoons, and fire. In addition, the negative effects of unfavorable weather conditions could pose physical risks to our facilities and data warehouses, result in power outages and shortages, and/or result in failures of global critical infrastructure and/or telecommunications systems, each of which could negatively impact our business and operations. Any disruption at or near any of our facilities or other operations, or those of our customers, vendors, data warehouses, distribution channels, and public cloud service providers could adversely affect our business. Disruptions could occur as a result of supply chain challenges; decreases in work force availability; natural disasters; inclement weather; man-made disasters or other external events, such as terrorist acts or acts of war, pandemics and/or epidemics, including COVID-19, boycotts and sanctions, widespread criminal activities, or protests and/or social unrest, or other events, at or in proximity to any of our facilities or those of our customers, vendors, data warehouses, distribution channels, and public cloud service providers. Such events and disruptions could make it difficult or impossible to deliver products and services to our customers or perform critical business functions and could adversely affect our business. Increased scrutiny from the public, investors, and others regarding our environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") practices could impact our reputation. We formed a cross-functional ESG leadership team in 2021 that has oversight by each of our Chief Legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer to further develop and implement an enterprise-wide ESG strategy. We also have published an ESG report that includes our policies and practices on a variety of ESG matters, including the value creation opportunities provided by our products and services, DEI, employee health and safety, community giving, green house gas emissions and reduction ambitions, corporate governance, data privacy, and talent management. These efforts may result in increased investor, media, employee, and other stakeholder attention to such initiatives, and such stakeholders may not be satisfied with our ESG practices or initiatives. Additionally, organizations that inform investors on ESG matters have developed rating systems for evaluating companies on their approach to ESG. Unfavorable ratings may lead to negative investor sentiment, which could negatively impact our stock price. Any failure, or perceived failure, to respond to ESG concerns could harm our business and reputation. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The IT industry is intensely competitive and evolving, and competitive pressures could adversely affect our pricing practices or demand for our offerings and services. We operate in the intensely competitive IT industry, which is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and models for consuming and delivering business and IT services, frequent new product introductions, and frequent price and cost reductions. In general, as a participant in the data analytic solutions market, we face: Changes in customer IT spending preferences and other shifts in market demands, which drive changes in the Company's competition; Changes in pricing, marketing and product strategies, such as potential aggressive price discounting and the use of different pricing models by our competitors; Rapid changes in product delivery models, such as on-premises solutions versus cloud solutions; Rapid changes in computing technology and capabilities that challenge our ability to maintain differentiation at the lower range of business intelligence analytic functions; New and emerging analytic technologies, competitors, and business models; Continued emergence of open-source software that often rivals current technology offerings at a much lower cost despite its limited functionality; Changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; and Continuing trend toward consolidation of companies, which could adversely affect our ability to compete, including if our key partners merge or partner with our competitors. 20 Table of Contents Our competitors include established companies within our industry, including Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Microsoft, and SAP, which are well-capitalized companies with widespread distribution, brand recognition and penetration of platforms and service offerings. The significant purchasing and market power of these larger competitors, which have greater financial resources than we do, could allow them to surpass our market penetration and marketing efforts to promote and sell their offerings and services. In addition, many other companies participate in specific areas of our business, such as enterprise applications, analytic platforms and business intelligence software. In some cases, we may partner with a company in one area of our business and compete with them in another. In particular, in delivering our Teradata Vantage platform in a cloud environment to certain of our customers, we partner with each of Amazon, Google, and Microsoft, which are public cloud service providers. The status of our business relationships with these companies can influence our ability to compete for analytic data solutions opportunities in such areas. In addition, we see additional competition from both established and emerging cloud-only data vendors and open-source providers. Failure to compete successfully with new or existing competitors in these and other areas could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate additional revenues or sustain existing revenue levels. Privacy concerns and laws such as the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and services and adversely affect our business . Regulation related to the provision of services over the Internet is evolving, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing, laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data. In some cases, new data privacy laws and regulations, such as the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation that took effect in May 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act, which took effect in January 2020, and an amended Act on the Protection of Personal Information in Japan, expected to take effect in spring 2022, impose new obligations directly on the Company as both a data controller and a data processor, as well as on many of our customers. These new laws may require us to make changes to our solutions and services to enable Teradata and/or our customers to comply with the new legal requirements and may also increase our potential liability exposure through higher potential penalties for non-compliance. Further, laws such as the European Unions proposed e-Privacy Regulation are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information for marketing purposes, and the tracking of individuals online activities. These new or proposed laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce demand for our solutions and services, require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, restrict our ability to store, transfer and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our solutions and services in certain locations or our customers' ability to deploy our solutions globally. For example, legal challenges in Europe regarding how companies transfer personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States could result in further limitations on the ability to transfer data across borders, particularly if governments are unable or unwilling to reach new or maintain existing agreements that support cross-border data transfers, such as a replacement for the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield framework. Additionally, certain countries have passed or are considering passing laws requiring local data residency. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, privacy laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and services, reduce overall demand for our solutions and services, make it more difficult to meet expectations from or commitments to customers, lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, or slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, any of which could harm our business. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on our ability to provide our solutions and services globally. Our customers expect us to meet voluntary certification and other standards established by third parties, such as related International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") standards. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business. Furthermore, concerns regarding data privacy may cause our customers customers to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our solutions and services effectively. Even the perception that the privacy 21 Table of Contents of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our offerings or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions. RISKS RELATED TO HUMAN CAPITAL We depend on key employees and face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Our employees and access to talent are critical to our success. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain the services of senior management and key personnel in all areas of our Company, including engineering and development, marketing and sales professionals, and consultants. Competition for highly skilled personnel and acquired talent in the IT industry is intense. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, voluntary workforce attrition, including the loss of senior management and key personnel, in part due to the highly-competitive job market in our industry. Furthermore, to advance our cloud-first strategy, we are required to attract and retain talent with expertise in cloud-based technologies, particularly with respect to our engineering and development teams. No assurance can be made that key personnel will remain with us, and it may be difficult and costly to replace such employees and/or obtain qualified talent who are not employees. Competition is heightened for diverse talent as companies, including us, develop and enhance DEI initiatives. Our failure to execute on our key culture initiatives, hire, retain or replace our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business operations. RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS We face uncertainties regarding legal proceedings, complex and changing laws and regulations, and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including those that relate to the environment, health and safety, employee benefits, export compliance, intellectual property, a variety of local laws and regulations, and other regulatory compliance and general matters. See "Note 10-Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable. There can be no assurances that the amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from such matters will not impact future operating results. In addition, we are subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future. From time to time, we may conduct internal investigations in connection with our efforts to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations, the costs or results of which could impact our financial results. In addition, we may be subject to unexpected costs in connection with new public disclosure or other regulatory requirements that are issued from time to time. Laws and regulations impacting our customers, such as those relating to privacy, data protection and digital marketing, could also impact our future business. Because we do business in the government sector, we are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil or criminal fines, penalties or administrative sanctions, including debarment from future government business, which could negatively impact the Companys results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our facilities and operations, including former facilities and former operations for which we may have liabilities, are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws. There can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not adversely impact future operating results. Management time and resources are spent to understand and comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to such matters as corporate governance, accounting principles, public disclosure, SEC regulations, and the rules of the NYSE where our shares are listed. Rapid changes in accounting standards, and federal securities laws and regulations, among others, may substantially increase costs to our organization, challenge our ability to timely comply with all of them and could have an impact on our future operating results. Inadequate protection of Teradatas intellectual property or infringement of intellectual property that is owned by others could impact our business and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents As a technology company, our intellectual property portfolio is crucial to our continuing ability to be a leading multi-cloud data and analytics platform provider. We strive to protect and enhance our proprietary intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as through technological safeguards. These efforts include protection of the offerings and application, diagnostic and other software we develop. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, our business could be materially adversely impacted. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology without our authorization or independently developing technology that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States (such as Iran, China and certain European Eastern Bloc countries who may use NSSAPC to advance their own industries). With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for these claims, and our competitors may already have applied for patents that, once issued, will prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to sell our offerings. While we take steps to provide for confidentiality obligations of employees and third parties with whom we do business (including customers, suppliers and strategic partners), there is a risk that such parties will breach such obligations and jeopardize our intellectual property rights. Many customers have outsourced the administration and management of their data and analytics environments to third parties, including some of our competitors, who then have access to our confidential information. Although we have agreements in place to mitigate this risk, there can be no assurance that such protections will be sufficient. In addition, our ability to capture and re-use field-based developed intellectual property is important to future business opportunities and margins. We have seen a trend towards aggressive enforcement of intellectual property rights as the functionality of offerings in our industry increasingly overlaps and the volume of issued software patents continues to grow. As a result, we have been, and in the future could be, subject to infringement claims which, regardless of their validity, could: Be expensive, time consuming, and divert management attention away from normal business operations; Require us to pay monetary damages or enter into non-standard royalty and licensing agreements; Require us to modify our product sales and development plans; or Require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Regardless of whether these claims have any merit, they can be burdensome to defend or settle and can harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. A change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. A number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as: The jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; and Changes in available tax credits, especially surrounding tax credits in the United States for our research and development activities. Tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. Our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate structure and inter-company arrangements, including the manner in which we develop, value, and use our intellectual property and the valuations of our inter-company transactions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision; however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, governmental authorities in the United States and throughout the world may increase or impose new income taxes or indirect taxes, or revise interpretations of existing tax rules and regulations, as a means of financing the costs of stimulus and other measures enacted or taken, 23 Table of Contents or that may be enacted or taken in the future. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our financial flexibility. The Company's indebtedness could: Expose us to interest rate risk; Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; Limit our ability to obtain additional financing or refinancing at attractive rates; Require the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases and other general corporate purposes; Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and Place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. Further, our outstanding indebtedness is subject to financial and other covenants, which may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. If we fail to comply with the covenants under any of our indebtedness, we may be in default under the loan, which may entitle the lenders to accelerate the debt obligations. To avoid defaulting on our indebtedness, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital, any of which may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have affected our operating results and could continue to impact our revenue and net earnings. Because the functional currency of most of our foreign activities is the applicable local currency, but our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we are required to translate the assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues of our foreign activities into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate in 32 countries and are exposed to various foreign currencies in the Americas region (North America and Latin America), EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). Accordingly, we face foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Foreign currency exchange rates have affected our revenue and net earnings and could continue to impact our revenue and net earnings. While we actively manage our foreign currency market risk in the normal course of business by entering into various derivative instruments to hedge against such risk, these derivative instruments involve risks and may not effectively limit our underlying exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations or minimize our net earnings and cash volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. Further, the failure of one or more counterparties to our foreign currency exchange rate contracts to fulfill their obligations to us could adversely affect our operating results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2021, Teradata operated 58 facilities in 32 countries consisting of approximately 1.1 million square feet throughout the world. Approximately 44% of this square footage is owned and the rest is leased. Within the total facility portfolio, Teradata operates 9 facilities where R&D activity occurs totaling approximately 360 thousand square feet, of which approximately 64% is owned. The remaining approximately 700 thousand square feet of space includes office, repair, warehouse and other miscellaneous sites, and is 33% owned and 67% leased. Teradata believes its facilities are suitable and adequate to meet its current needs. Teradatas corporate headquarters is in San Diego, California. 24 Table of Contents Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required to be set forth under this Item 3 is incorporated by reference to Note 10, Commitments and ContingenciesLegal Proceedings of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K . Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES N/A. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Teradata common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "TDC." There were approximately 24,865 registered holders of Teradata common stock as of February 3, 2022. Teradata has not paid cash dividends and does not anticipate the payment of cash dividends to holders of Teradata common stock in the immediate future. The declaration of dividends in the future would be subject to the discretion of Teradatas Board of Directors. The information under the caption "Stock Ownership" and the caption "Current Equity Compensation Plan Information" in Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is also incorporated by reference in this section. The following graph compares the relative performance of Teradata stock, the Standard & Poors ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the S&P Information Technology Index. This graph covers the five-year period from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2021. In each case, assumes a $100 investment on December 31, 2016, and reinvestment of all dividends, if any. As of December 31, Company/Index 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Teradata Corporation $ 100 $ 142 $ 141 $ 99 $ 83 $ 156 S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 119 $ 112 $ 144 $ 168 $ 213 S&P Information Technology Index $ 100 $ 137 $ 135 $ 199 $ 284 $ 378 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchases 26 Table of Contents Section 16 officers occasionally transfer vested shares earned under restricted share awards to the Company at the current market price to cover their withholding taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the total of these purchases was 400,932 shares at an average price of $41.35 per share. The following table provides information relating to the Companys repurchase of common stock for the year ended December 31, 2021: Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Dilution Offset Program (1) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced General Share Repurchase Program (2) Maximum Dollar Value that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Dilution Offset Program Maximum Dollar Value that May Yet Be Purchased Under the General Share Repurchase Program Period First quarter total 2,587,904 $ 32.94 532,631 2,055,273 $ 3,379,199 $ 351,832,159 Second quarter total 847,293 $ 42.52 125,965 721,328 $ 4,074,322 $ 321,236,126 Third quarter total 1,084,120 $ 53.48 218,421 865,699 $ 1,410,950 $ 275,145,619 October 2021 342,346 $ 56.70 14,918 327,428 $ 1,570,088 $ 256,592,369 November 2021 646,088 $ 50.20 15,180 630,908 $ 1,155,436 $ 1,225,015,586 December 2021 315,471 $ 41.64 21,264 294,207 $ 371,196 $ 1,212,770,526 Fourth quarter total 1,303,905 $ 49.84 51,362 1,252,543 $ 371,196 $ 1,212,770,526 2021 Full year total 5,823,222 $ 41.94 928,379 4,894,843 $ 371,196 $ 1,212,770,526 1. The dilution offset program allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the ESPP to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. 2. The general share repurchase program authorized by the Board allows the Company to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. On November 1, 2021, Teradata's Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion to be utilized to repurchase Teradata common stock under this share repurchase program. The general share repurchase program expires on December 31, 2025. Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ("MD&A") You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to several factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See "Risk Factors" and "Forward-looking Statements." OVERVIEW Teradata is a provider of a leading connected multi-cloud data platform for enterprise analytics, focused on helping companies leverage all their data across an enterprise, at scale. In doing so, we help companies to find answers to their toughest business challenges. All of our efforts are in support of our purpose of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. Our platform is composed of our data platform Teradata Vantage 27 Table of Contents which is designed to run across on-premises, private cloud and public cloud environments. This platform is supported by business consulting and support services that enable customers to extract insights from across a companys entire data and analytics ecosystem. Teradatas strategy is discussed under Part I, Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including significant product expansion of our Teradata Vantage multi-cloud data platform offering, expanding our footprint with existing customers and adding new customers, increasing our focus on diversity and inclusiveness, and driving operational excellence and agility across the company. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts, including subscription, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance. ARR does not include managed services and third-party software. Public Cloud ARR (included within total ARR) - annual value at a point in time of all contracts related to public cloud implementations of Teradata Vantage and does not include ARR related to private or managed cloud implementations. Cloud Net Expansion Rate - Teradata calculates its last-twelve months dollar-based cloud net expansion rate as of a fiscal quarter end as follows. We identify the ARR for active cloud customers in the fiscal quarter ending one year prior to the given fiscal quarter (the "base period"). We then identify the cloud ARR in the given fiscal quarter (the "current period") from the same set of active cloud customers as the base period, including increases in usage, as well as reductions and cancellations, and additional conversions of on-premises revenues to the cloud for customers active in the base period, all in constant currency. The quarterly dollar-based, cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the ARR from the current period and dividing by the ARR from the base period. The last twelve-month dollar-based cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the average of the quarterly dollar-based cloud net expansion rate from the last fiscal quarter and the prior three fiscal quarters. COVID-19 Update During the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, the effects of the coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic and the related actions by governments around the world to attempt to contain the spread of the virus impacted our business globally as described below. In response to the pandemic, we took actions to manage expenses and costs appropriately in light of the uncertainty COVID-19 has created, which has had a positive impact on our operating performance. We continue to monitor COVID-19 impacts to our business and have undertaken additional expense management and cost measures to further drive our operating performance and provide agility in the event of an unforeseen reduction in demand should it occur. During 2021, we also experienced increased volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, in part related to the uncertainty from COVID-19, as well as actions taken by governments and central banks in response to COVID-19. Certain foreign currency rates have depreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar during this period. We expect continued volatility in foreign currency exchange rates in 2022. Our supply chain has been relatively stable with respect to manufacturing and distribution capabilities during COVID-19; however, our supply chain is susceptible to volatility due to ongoing uncertainty as a result of ongoing international and domestic pandemic response and recovery efforts. Operationally, we have been able to run our business without significant interruptions, with the vast majority of employees working remotely. While consulting revenue is still impacted by work from home and travel restrictions, we have modified our business approach where applicable to work with customers remotely. Our customers reduction in discretionary spending in light of COVID-19 uncertainties has also impacted our consulting business, with consulting projects being delayed or suspended by our customers. We implemented several employee engagement and communication programs designed to support employees health and well-being while also enhancing their productivity during the pandemic. 28 Table of Contents Our priorities in formulating and implementing our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and related business disruption include the following: People - protecting the health and well-being of our employees, Customers - proactively connecting with our customers to support their needs and meet our service level commitments, while continuing to help them gain real business value from their data assets, Supply Chain - proactively working to monitor existing inventory, supplier availability and securing inventory for future quarters, Financial - responsibly managing expenses and costs to provide financial agility during the extended period of global economic uncertainty, Global Community - having our technology contribute to customers, partners and communities, particularly in healthcare and government, where collectively we can positively impact efforts in combating COVID-19, and Future of Work - learning from productivity improvements and understanding our employees' preferences for their work location to implement a work model that reflects the future of work for the Company. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are continuing to execute our pandemic response plan, and the Teradata Pandemic Response Team is refining and executing return-to-office plans. Under our return-to-office plans, none of our employees are required to return to an office environment and can choose to continue to work remotely or under a hybrid model. For employees choosing to return to the office environment, certain safety protocols will be required to be followed. Customer-facing teams are also proactively working to identify ways to assist customers, meet service level commitments, and engage with customers via virtual events. Despite these efforts, there remains a fair degree of uncertainty regarding the potential impact of the pandemic on our business, from both a financial and operational perspective, and the scope and costs associated with additional measures that may be necessary in response to the pandemic going forward. We will continue our diligent efforts to monitor and respond as appropriate to the impacts of the pandemic on our business, including the status of our workforce, supply chain, customers, suppliers, and vendors, based on the priorities described above. Our actions will continue to be informed by the requirements and recommendations of the federal, state or local authorities. We intend to remain agile and have contingency plans in place to appropriately respond to conditions as they unfold. For more information, see "Risk Factors" under Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2021 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2021: Revenue of $1,917 million increased by 4% in 2021 as compared to 2020, with an underlying 12% increase in recurring revenue primarily driven by our transition from perpetual to subscription-based transactions. The increase in recurring revenue was partially offset by a 28% decrease in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue and a 10% decrease in consulting services revenue. The decline in consulting service revenue is primarily due to our focus on higher-margin engagements. Gross profit was 61.9% in 2021, an increase from 55.5% in 2020, primarily due to a higher recurring revenue mix as compared to the prior year. Operating expenses in 2021 decreased by 5% as compared to 2020, primarily driven by a lower employee cost base resulting from the workforce reduction measures taken in 2020. Operating income was $231 million in 2021, up from $16 million in 2020. Net income was $147 million in 2021 versus net income of $129 million in 2020, primarily due to improved revenue mix and lower operating expenses. Diluted net earnings per share was $1.30 in 2021 compared to diluted earnings per share of $1.16 in 2020. 29 Table of Contents RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 AND 2020 In July 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update 2019-07, "Codification Updates to SEC Sections-Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification", which makes a number of changes meant to simplify certain disclosures in financial condition and results of operations, particularly by eliminating year-to-year comparisons between prior periods previously disclosed. In accordance with the relevant aspects of the rule covering the current year annual report, we now include disclosures on results of operations for fiscal year 2021 versus 2020 only. For discussion of fiscal year 2020 versus 2019 see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Revenue % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Recurring $ 1,464 76.4 % $ 1,309 71.3 % Perpetual software license, hardware and other 77 4.0 % 107 5.8 % Consulting services 376 19.6 % 420 22.9 % Total revenue $ 1,917 100 % $ 1,836 100 % 2021 compared to 2020 - Total revenue increased 4% in 2021 and included a 1% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue grew 12% in 2021 and included a 1% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue was positively impacted primarily due to a higher base of revenue driven by continued growth in public cloud and subscription ARR during 2020 and 2021. Additionally, on-premises customer transactions involving substantive long-term commitments resulted in revenue being recognized on a recurring annual basis rather than a recurring quarterly basis resulting in approximately $30 million of net positive impact in 2021 compared to 2020. For full year 2022, recurring revenue is expected to grow at a low-to-mid-single-digit percentage year-over-year. Taking into consideration the growth in recurring revenue offset by reduced perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue and reduced consulting services revenue, total revenue is expected to be flat-to-low-single-digit percentage growth year-over-year. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other were down 28% in 2021, as customers continue to transition to our subscription-based offerings, consistent with our overall strategy. Aligned with our strategy, we expect perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue to decline in 2022. Consulting services revenue decreased 10%, including a 2% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations, primarily due to the realignment and focus of our consulting resources on higher-margin engagements that are intended to drive increased software consumption within our targeted customer base. Consistent with our continued focus on higher-margin engagements that further our strategy, we are forecasting a low-double-digit decline year-over-year in 2022 consulting services revenue. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of January 31, 2022, Teradata is estimating a 2.0%-to-2.5% negative impact from currency translation on our 2022 full-year total revenues. Included below are financial and performance growth metrics that we used to monitor the progress of our transformation, success of our business strategy, and overall financial condition of Teradata for 2021: ARR was $1.492 billion at the end of 2021, a 5% increase from $1.425 billion at the end of 2020; and Public Cloud ARR was $202 million at the end of 2021, a 91% increase from $106 million at the end of 2020. Our ARR is composed of three main categories: (1) Public Cloud ARR, (2) ARR related to on-premises subscription-based contracts and private cloud ("Subscription ARR"), and (3) ARR related to our legacy perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights. At December 31, 2021, our ARR consisted of: 30 Table of Contents $202 million in Public Cloud ARR; $898 million in Subscription ARR; and $392 million in maintenance and software upgrade rights ARR. Public Cloud ARR increased 91% versus the prior year primarily due to on-premises customers migrating to Teradata Vantage in the cloud along with strong net expansion rates in excess of 130%. Subscription ARR increased 8% in 2021 from the prior year due to expansions of existing customers and new customer logos. Our maintenance and software upgrade rights ARR declined 20% compared to 2020. This was expected as the Company continued its transition to a subscription model and customers increasingly purchased Teradata on a subscription and/or public cloud basis. Our overall ARR growth was driven by increased participation by cloud specialists on our account teams, increasing partner involvement on existing customer migrations and new logo accounts. For the full year 2022, Public Cloud ARR is expected to increase by approximately 80% year-over-year. Total ARR is expected to grow at a mid-to-high-single-digit percentage year-over-year. Gross Profit The Company often uses specific terms and definitions to describe variances in gross profit. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of recurring, consulting, and perpetual software licenses and hardware that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross profit even if total revenue remains unchanged. Recurring Revenue Mix - The proportion of various recurring revenue offerings that comprise the total of recurring revenue. For example, a higher mix of on-premises subscriptions including hardware rentals could have a negative impact on total recurring gross profit. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period that generate the total perpetual software license and hardware revenue. For example, a higher mix of Teradata versus third-party products can impact profitability. Gross profit for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Gross profit Recurring $ 1,099 75.1 % $ 938 71.7 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 34 44.2 % 43 40.2 % Consulting services 53 14.1 % 38 9.0 % Total gross profit $ 1,186 61.9 % $ 1,019 55.5 % 2021 compared to 2020 - The increase in recurring revenue gross profit, as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by a higher amount of recurring revenue at an improved gross margin rate primarily resulting from improved operating efficiencies of our subscription and cloud offerings and partially offset by the higher mix as a result of our customers transitioning to cloud. Upfront revenue recognition of certain renewed and expanded on-premises customer arrangements, as discussed above, also had a positive impact on recurring revenue gross margin. The increase in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix and opportunities with lower hardware mix as compared to prior year. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased as compared to the prior year primarily due to improved resource mix utilization as well as increased profit dollar realization from our continued strategic focus to improve consulting margins by executing on higher-value projects. The Company expects to continue to focus our consulting organization on Teradata Vantage-oriented offerings and reduce our footprint in non-core consulting engagements. For 2022, we expect overall gross profit as a percentage of revenue to be slightly lower than 2021. Recurring gross margin is expected to be lower due to a higher mix of cloud revenue at a similar gross margin rate as 2021. We are 31 Table of Contents also investing in activities that continue to drive increased adoption and consumption of Teradata Vantage, including greater efficiencies with cloud service providers, offset by enhancements to our consumption pricing model. In addition, we are forecasting less of a positive impact from upfront recurring revenue that benefited our results in 2021. Consulting services margin is expected to be at a similar gross margin rate as 2021, and we anticipate lower gross margin rates in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other in 2022 compared to 2021. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 646 33.7 % $ 669 36.4 % Research and development expenses 309 16.1 % 334 18.2 % Total operating expenses $ 955 49.8 % $ 1,003 54.6 % 2021 compared to 2020 - The decrease in selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense was primarily driven by a lower employee cost base resulting from workforce reduction measures in 2020, reduced travel and marketing spend as compared to the prior year pre-pandemic period (January - March 2020), and continued cost discipline as compared to prior year. This decrease in SG&A expense was partially offset by higher variable incentive compensation that was tied to Teradata's financial performance, higher cloud sales incentive compensation expenses, and additional investments in our go-to-market operations to further our transformation and cloud-first strategic focus. R&D expenses decreased in 2021 as compared to the prior year. R&D expenses were impacted by a lower employee cost base resulting from workforce reduction measures in 2020 and continued cost discipline as compared to the prior year partially offset by an increase in spending to focus our R&D efforts on accelerating our transformation and cloud-first strategy and related cloud initiatives, as well as higher variable incentive compensation expense due to Teradata's positive financial performance. We expect total operating expenses to increase in 2022 as we are accelerating our investments in cloud R&D, go-to-market, and customer success to drive growth and lifetime value with new and existing customers. Other Expense, net In millions 2021 2020 Interest income $ 6 $ 4 Interest expense (26) (27) Other (19) (17) Total Other Expense, net $ (39) $ (40) Other expense, net in 2021 and 2020, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, as well as benefit costs for our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: 2021 2020 Effective Tax Rate 23.4 % 637.5 % The 2021 effective tax rate included a net $8 million of discrete tax benefit, of which $3 million of tax benefit was related to true-up adjustments to reconcile the Companys 2020 U.S. tax return versus the preliminary estimate as booked in its tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $2 million of tax benefit related to a reduction in the Transition Tax based on the Companys amended 2017 tax return. In addition, the Company recognized $4 million of incremental tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. These tax benefits were partially offset by 32 Table of Contents $1 million of discrete tax expense related to adjustments to the Companys accrual for unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with FIN 48. The 2020 effective tax rate included a net $157 million of discrete tax benefit. The net discrete tax benefit of $157 million was recorded and relates to the transfer of foreign intellectual property as more fully described in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company recognized a net $13 million of tax benefit resulting from the CARES Act of 2020, which allows U.S. corporations a one-time opportunity to claim income tax refunds by allowing a 5-year net operating loss ("NOL") carry-back for taxable losses incurred in the tax year 2020. Teradata intends to carry back its 2020 NOL to claim a refund for taxes it paid in 2015, which created a one-time income tax benefit for the difference between the 35% 2015 carry back tax rate and the current 21% federal statutory rate. These tax benefits were partially offset by $9 million tax expense related to stock-based compensation and $4 million of incremental global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") tax. These discrete net tax benefits resulted in full-year total income tax benefit in 2020 of $153 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $24 million, causing a tax rate of 637.5%. The Company is expecting its full-year effective tax rate for 2022 to be approximately 32%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2022. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 27%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 21% in the U.S. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 1,044 54.5 % $ 1,025 55.8 % EMEA 543 28.3 % 485 26.4 % APJ 330 17.2 % 326 17.8 % Total segment revenue $ 1,917 100 % $ 1,836 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 690 66.1 % $ 631 61.6 % EMEA 337 62.1 % 273 56.3 % APJ 188 57.0 % 168 51.5 % Total segment gross profit $ 1,215 63.4 % $ 1,072 58.4 % 2021 compared to 2020 Americas Americas revenue increased 2% with no underlying impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in Americas recurring revenue of 8% was partially offset by a decrease of 49% in perpetual software licenses and 33 Table of Contents hardware revenue and a decrease in consulting revenue of 15%. Segment gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was higher primarily due to an overall higher mix of recurring revenue. EMEA EMEA revenue increased 12%, which included a 3% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase of 19% in EMEA recurring revenue and 1% in consulting revenue was partially offset by a decrease of 5% in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue. EMEA segment gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. APJ APJ revenue increased 1%, which included a 3% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in APJ recurring revenue of 16% was partially offset by a decrease of 24% in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and a decrease in consulting revenue of 17%. APJ segment gross profit, as a percentage of revenues, was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2021 with $592 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $63 million increase from December 31, 2020, after using approximately $244 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $196 million to $463 million in 2021 compared to 2020. Teradata used approximately $40 million of cash in 2021 for reorganizing and restructuring its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its cloud-first strategy, as compared to $58 million used in 2020 for this purpose. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to improved profitability and differences in timing of various components of working capital. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software. Free cash flow is one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 463 $ 267 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (28) (44) Additions to capitalized software (3) (7) Free cash flow $ 432 $ 216 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities in 2021 and 2020. Teradatas financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $244 million for share repurchases, repayment of our term loan of $44 million and $92 million of payments on finance leases, partially offset by $24 million net inflows from other financing activities. 34 Table of Contents Teradatas financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $100 million for share repurchases, repayment of our term loan of $25 million and $70 million of payments on finance leases, partially offset by $9 million net inflows from other financing activities. The Company purchased 5.8 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $41.94 in 2021 and 4.8 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $20.81 in 2020. Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first of these programs (the "dilution offset program") authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of December 31, 2021, under the Companys second share repurchase program (the "general share repurchase program"), the Company had approximately $1,213 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. As part of its general share repurchase program, on February 9, 2022, the Company entered into a $250 million accelerated share repurchase agreement with JP Morgan as described in more detail in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax paid for shares withheld upon equity award settlement, were $24 million in 2021 and $9 million in 2020. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $401 million as of December 31, 2021 and $338 million as of December 31, 2020. The remaining balance held in the United States was $191 million as of December 31, 2021 and $191 million as of December 31, 2020. The Company considers a majority of its foreign earnings as not indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States moved to a territorial system of international taxation and, as such, will generally not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-Term Debt . Our long-term debt and minimum debt obligations as of December 31, 2021, including our Credit Facility are discussed in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Leases. In the normal course of business, the Company enters into operating and finance leases that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. Leases and minimum lease obligations as of December 31, 2021 are described in detail in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outline our material obligations at December 31, 2021, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2023- 2025- 2027 and In millions Amounts 2022 2024 2026 Thereafter Transition tax $ 69 $ $ 40 $ 29 $ Purchase obligations 611 170 279 162 Total transition tax and purchase obligations $ 680 $ 170 $ 319 $ 191 $ Transition tax is the remaining payable balance as of December 31, 2021 of the one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings resulting from the 2017 Tax Act. The payments associated with this deemed repatriation will be 35 Table of Contents paid over seven years ending in 2025. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, the Company had $43 million of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2021, of which $22 million is recorded in non-current liabilities, $2 million is reflected as a current liability in taxes payable, and $19 million is reflected as an offset to deferred tax assets related to certain tax attribute carryforwards. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities. However, the Company expects that $2 million in payments will be due within the next 12 months. We also have postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The Company is also potentially subject to concentration of supplier risk. Our hardware components are assembled exclusively by Flex Ltd. ("Flex"). Flex procures a wide variety of components used in the manufacturing process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, Teradata utilizes preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost, and delivery. Typically, these preferred suppliers maintain alternative processes and/or facilities to ensure continuity of supply. Given the Companys strategy to outsource its manufacturing activities to Flex and to source certain components from single suppliers, a disruption in production at Flex or at a supplier could impact the timing of customer shipments and/or Teradatas operating results. In addition, a significant change in the forecasts to any of these preferred suppliers could result in purchase obligations or components that may be in excess of demand. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in "Note 8Employee Benefit Plans" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see "Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition 36 Table of Contents On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"). This standard replaced existing revenue recognition rules with a comprehensive revenue measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. Refer to Notes 1 and 3, of our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all performance obligations in the contract and in determining the standalone selling price of each performance obligation, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis and applicable renewal rates for services and subscriptions. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. The Company reviews the standalone selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the year ended December 31, 2021 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the standalone selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Company made an accounting policy election in 2018 related to the 2017 Tax Act to provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is i ncurred. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years. The Company considers a majority of its foreign earnings not indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. However, these distributions may be subject to non-U.S. withholding taxes if profits are distributed from certain jurisdictions; accordingly, the Company has recorded $4 million of deferred foreign tax expense with respect to certain earnings that are not considered permanently reinvested. Deferred taxes have not been provided on earnings considered indefinitely reinvested. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2021, the Company has a total of $43 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $22 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability and $2 million is reflected as a current liability in taxes payable. The remaining balance of $19 million of uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes generated by the Company which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have recorded $58 million in 2021 and $51 million in 2020 for valuation allowances, a majority of which offset our California R&D tax credit carryfoward, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California R&D tax credits into the foreseeable future. On January 1, 2020, we transferred certain of our intellectual property among our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets of $157 million. The recognition of deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers of intellectual property required us to make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the 37 Table of Contents fair value of such intellectual property. Significant assumptions in valuing the intellectual property include, but are not limited to, internal revenue and expense forecasts, and the discount rate. The sustainability of our future tax benefits is dependent upon the acceptance of these valuation estimates and assumptions by the taxing authorities. Stock-based Compensation We issue service-based and performance-based restricted share units. We measure compensation cost for service-based restricted share unit awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period. Our performance-based restricted share units vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned pursuant to our performance-based restricted share unit awards can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of our performance-based restricted share awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to our performance-based restricted share unit awards could differ from our current expectations. We account for forfeitures for both service-based and performance-based restricted share units as they occur instead of estimating forfeitures at the time of grant and revising those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from our estimates. Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. For 2019, the Company performed a quantitative impairment test. In this test, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the Company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill and determined that no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was necessary. Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The Companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Leases On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)", which requires leases with durations greater than twelve months to be recognized on the balance sheet. We determine if a contract contains a lease at inception. Our material operating leases primarily consist of automobiles in certain countries and real estate, including office, storage and parking space. Our operating leases generally have remaining terms of 2-5 years. Our finance leases primarily consist of equipment financed for the purpose of delivering services to our customers and generally have terms of 3 years. Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments not yet paid. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset and are based upon the operating lease liabilities adjusted for prepayments or accrued lease payments, initial direct costs, lease incentives, and impairment of operating lease assets. To determine the present value of lease payments not yet paid, when available, we use the rate implicit in the lease. However, real estate leases do not typically provide a readily determinable implicit rate. Therefore, we estimate the incremental 38 Table of Contents borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement. The incremental borrowing rate used in the calculation of the lease liability is based on the secured rate associated with financed lease obligations for each location of leased property. Many of our leases include variable rental escalation clauses which are recognized when incurred. Some of our leases also include renewal options and/or termination options that are factored into the determination of lease payments and lease terms when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise these options. Lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. Changes in judgments and estimates, such as the likelihood of renewal options, impairments, or the incremental borrowing rate could impact the amounts of assets or liabilities recorded or could impact the amount of cost or expense recognized between periods. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2021, a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $11 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $8 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in "Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference.