Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward-looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Teradata is a global leader of analytic data platforms, marketing and analytic applications, and related services. Our analytic data platforms are comprised of software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services for data warehousing, and big data analytics. Through our Teradata Unified Data Architecture (a comprehensive enterprise framework for organizations to integrate and analyze all types of data across multiple Teradata and third-party provided technologies), we help customers access and manage data and extract business value and insight from their data. Our applications are designed to leverage data to: improve organizations effectiveness in marketing to their customers, determine customer and product profitability, forecast consumer demand, and discover new insights. Our consulting services allow customers to maximize use and leverage the value of their analytic data and marketing investments through a broad range of offerings including consulting to help organizations design and optimize their analytic and big data environments, create and execute marketing strategies and programs, cloud (software as a service, platform as a service), hosting, platform management, and related installation services (collectively, consulting services) and support services. 2014 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2014 : Revenue increased 1% in 2014 from 2013 to $2,732 million . Gross margin was 54.1% in 2014 , down from 54.7% in 2013 , which was largely due to increased amortization of previously capitalized software. Operating income was $503 million in 2014 , down from $532 million in 2013 . The reduction was driven by lower overall gross margins as well as an increase in operating expenses. Net income of $367 million in 2014 decreased from $377 million in 2013 . Net income per common (diluted) share was $2.33 in 2014 compared to $2.27 in 2013 . Net income for 2014 includes approximately $45 million in after-tax impacts of acquisition-related transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, compared to $49 million of such costs and expenses, in 2013 . Additionally, 2014 net income includes a $6 million after-tax net loss on an equity investment arising from an impairment of carrying value accounted for under the cost method. STRATEGY OVERVIEW Teradata helps companies achieve competitive advantage and win in their markets by empowering them to become data-driven businesses capable of exploiting data for insight and value. With Teradatas industry-leading analytic data platforms, marketing applications and proven consulting experience and expertise, companies can become more competitive by leveraging data insights to reduce costs, improve business processes, enhance customer relationships, improve their marketing and drive innovation. 29 Table of Contents Our strategy encompasses three large and growing markets: data warehousing, big data analytics and marketing applications. We continue to focus on the following key initiatives to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of these market opportunities. Be the trusted advisor for enabling data-driven business and continue investing in business and technical consulting via organic growth and targeted strategic acquisitions; Invest to expand our leading Unified Data Architecture, data warehouse software and platform family, big data discovery platforms, Hadoop-based data management platforms, and marketing applications to address multiple market segments through internal development and targeted strategic acquisitions; Deliver our solutions via the cloud (as a service) or on-premises with offerings that support applications as a service, data warehousing as a service, discovery analytics as a service and data management as a service; Continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage; and Continue to seek opportunities to expand our sales resources and reach, both in our data analytics and marketing applications businesses. FUTURE TRENDS We believe that demand for our analytic data platforms will continue to increase due to the continued growth of data volumes and types of data, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more analytics over time. The adoption by customers of a broader set of analytics including predictive analytics, path analysis, network analysis/graph, and many others is driving more applications, usage and capacity. This increased breadth of analytics also drives the need for an overall architecture to manage an increasingly complex analytics environment. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership in analytic data platforms and Unified Data Architecture positions us for future growth. In addition, we believe that our competitive position in integrated marketing cloud applications, including our marketing operations, campaign management and digital messaging offerings, will contribute to our growth and are synergistic with the Companys big data analytics business as companies gain competitive advantage through data-driven marketing with their customers. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Since mid-2012, Teradata has seen a change in customers buying patterns, particularly in the Americas region, with respect to large capital investments and related services. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenge for future revenue growth relates to pressures on large capital expenditures. We believe that a number of factors are contributing to a slowdown in our revenue growth, including: information technology budget constraints; the relatively recent investments made by several of our existing customers to build out their Teradata integrated data warehousing ("IDW") environments; a current focus of investments in their analytical ecosystems which have lower average selling prices than IDW environments; and to a lesser degree the transfer of some IDW workloads to other platforms in the ecosystem. Overall, we believe that IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems (through growth in IDW, Teradata big data analytics and integrated marketing cloud applications) as well as the addition of new customers. Although we did not experience significant changes for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to competitive and/or pricing trends for our analytic data platforms, there is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could occur in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top priority in companies and lower-cost alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads or provide a Unified Data Architecture to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas offerings. As described above, we continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we will continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future 30 Table of Contents demand. In addition, as we broaden our product portfolio and market reach, we could see smaller deal sizes and more revenue derived from our appliances which could lead to overall lower product gross margins. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2015, Teradata is expecting approximately five percentage points of adverse impact from currency translation on our reported revenue growth rate and a corresponding currency impact on operating income, based on currency rates as of January 30, 2015. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 % of % of % of In millions 2014 Revenue 2013 Revenue 2012 Revenue Product revenue $ 1,227 44.9 % $ 1,230 45.7 % $ 1,297 48.7 % Service revenue 1,505 55.1 % 1,462 54.3 % 1,368 51.3 % Total revenue 2,732 100 % 2,692 100 % 2,665 100 % Gross margin Product gross margin 784 63.9 % 797 64.8 % 881 67.9 % Service gross margin 695 46.2 % 676 46.2 % 610 44.6 % Total gross margin 1,479 54.1 % 1,473 54.7 % 1,491 55.9 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 770 28.2 % 757 28.1 % 728 27.3 % Research and development expenses 206 7.5 % 184 6.8 % 183 6.9 % Total operating expenses 976 35.7 % 941 35.0 % 911 34.2 % Operating income $ 503 18.4 % $ 532 19.8 % $ 580 21.8 % Revenue Total revenue increased 1% in 2014 compared to 2013. The 1% reported revenue increase included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The general lack of meaningful revenue growth was due primarily to tightly constrained information technology budgets, extended sales cycles, a reduction in large customer orders, as well as the impact currency translation had on reported revenue growth. Product revenue was flat in 2014 from 2013. Service revenue increased 3% in 2014 from 2013, with an underlying 7% increase in maintenance services revenue, as compared to 2013. Consulting services revenue was flat in 2014 compared to 2013. In 2013, total revenue increased 1% in 2013 compared to 2012. The revenue increase included a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Product revenue decreased 5% in 2013 from 2012, due primarily to macro-economic conditions in certain geographical territories throughout the world, extended sales cycles and a reduction in large customer orders. Additionally, service revenue in 2013 increased 7% from 2012, with an underlying 9% increase in maintenance services revenue, as compared to 2012. Consulting services revenue increased 5% in 2013 compared to 2012. Gross Margin Gross margin was 54.1% in 2014 down from 54.7% in 2013. Product gross margin decreased to 63.9% in 2014, compared to 64.8% 2013, primarily the result of increased amortization of previously capitalized software. Additionally, product gross margins were adversely impacted by product mix and were partially offset by improved deal mix. Service gross margin was 46.2% in 2014, the same as in 2013. In 2013, gross margin was 54.7% in 2013 down from 55.9% in 2012, as a result of a shift in the product mix. Product gross margin decreased to 64.8% in 2013, compared to 67.9% in 2012, primarily the result of lower product revenue volume, product mix, and higher amortization of capitalized software. Service gross margin increased to 31 Table of Contents 46.2% in 2013 compared to 44.6% in 2012, driven by higher maintenance revenues and improved consulting margins. The Company often uses specific terms/definitions to describe variances in gross margin. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of products and services that comprise the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on overall gross margin even if total revenue remains unchanged. Services Mix - The proportion of higher-margin maintenance revenue versus lower-margin consulting revenue that comprises the total services revenue of the Company. Product Mix - The proportions of various products that comprise the total product revenue of the Company. For example, a higher mix of IDW products versus departmental data mart, Aster, our Extreme Data Appliance or Hadoop products would have a positive impact on product gross margins. This definition would also include the mix of Company sourced and third party products. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of deals closed within the period and includes such items as capacity on demand (COD), floor sweeps versus expansions, hardware versus software, and discounting (new customers versus existing customers, large customers versus smaller customers). COD is a common offering used by Teradata and other information technology vendors that allows the customer to purchase extra capacity in the future, which is already delivered and integrated into their existing systems, typically within 12-18 months. COD enables customers to "activate" or add capacity quickly. Product cost is recognized upon delivery with no corresponding revenue. When customers activate the COD, we record and recognize the revenue associated with the added capacity and the gross margin is recovered. Floor sweeps take place when an existing customer replaces their older Teradata platform for a new Teradata platform, which can drive a larger revenue transaction, but typically also results in a higher mix of lower-margin hardware-related revenue versus higher-margin software-related revenue. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, including Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) and Research and Development (R&D) expenses, totaled $976 million in 2014 compared to $941 million in 2013. SG&A increased by $13 million or 2%. R&D expenses increased $22 million due to expenses related to a voluntary early-retirement program during the first quarter of 2014, incremental headcount for our recent complementary technology acquisitions and our internal planned investments on future releases. In 2013, total operating expenses, including SG&A and R&D expenses, totaled $941 million in 2013 compared to $911 million in 2012. SG&A increased by $29 million, and was primarily driven by higher selling expense, resulting from our strategic initiative to add sales territories and related headcount, which was offset in part by lower variable incentive based compensation expense. R&D expenses increased $1 million and included $3 million less in capitalization of software development costs, which were offset by lower variable incentive based compensation expense. Other Expense, net Other expense was $9 million in 2014 compared to $24 million in 2013 and $2 million in 2012. In 2014, other expense primarily included a loss of $9 million on an equity investment arising from an impairment of carrying value. In 2013, other expense included a loss of $25 million on an equity investment arising from an impairment of carrying value, partially offset by a $3 million gain on sale. 32 Table of Contents Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 25.7%, 25.8% and 27.5% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. There were no material discrete tax items impacting the effective tax rate for full-year 2014. The tax rate for 2013 included a $4 million discrete tax benefit for the 2012 U.S. Federal Research and Development Tax Credit (the R&D tax credit), that was recognized in January of 2013 when the tax credit was retroactively reinstated. Due to a change in tax law enacted in the state of California in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company established a valuation allowance to partially offset its California Research & Development tax credit carryforward deferred tax asset, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California Research & Development tax credits into the foreseeable future. However, the discrete tax impact of establishing the valuation allowance was fully offset with a favorable discrete tax impact resulting from a decrease in the Companys effective state tax rate resulting from the California change in tax law, resulting in no material net impact to the Companys overall effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2012. We currently estimate our full-year effective tax rate for 2015 to be approximately 26%. This estimate takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2015, and assumes that the R&D tax credit, which expired as of December 31, 2014, will be reinstated sometime during 2015. If the credit is not reinstated during 2015, we estimate our effective tax rate will be negatively impacted by approximately 80 basis points. For additional information, see Note 4Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Teradata has historically managed its business in two geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: the Americas and International regions. Teradata believes this format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends by operating segment. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The discussion of our segment results describes the changes in results as compared to the prior-year period. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: % of % of % of In millions 2014 Revenue 2013 Revenue 2012 Revenue Revenue Americas $ 1,619 59.3 % $ 1,633 60.7 % $ 1,619 60.8 % International 1,113 40.7 % 1,059 39.3 % 1,046 39.2 % Total revenue $ 2,732 100 % $ 2,692 100 % $ 2,665 100 % Gross margin Americas $ 943 58.2 % $ 947 58.0 % $ 967 59.7 % International 536 48.2 % 526 49.7 % 524 50.1 % Total gross margin $ 1,479 54.1 % $ 1,473 54.7 % $ 1,491 55.9 % Americas: Revenue decreased $14 million or 1%, in 2014 from 2013, with an underlying 3% increase in services revenue offset by a 4% decrease in product revenue. The revenue decrease included a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins were 58.2% for 2014, up from 58.0% in 2013. In 2013, revenue increased $14 million or 1% from 2012, with an underlying 7% increase in services revenue offset in part by a 4% decrease in product revenue. The revenue increase was not materially impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins were 58.0% for 2013, down from 59.7% in 2012, as higher maintenance services margins and improved consulting services margins were more than offset by unfavorable revenue mix (a greater proportion of services revenue in relation to product revenue), compared to the prior-year period. International: Revenue increased $54 million or 5%, in 2014 from 2013. Product revenue increased by 8% and services revenue increased by 3%. The revenue increase included a 3% adverse impact from foreign currency 33 Table of Contents fluctuations. Gross margins decreased to 48.2% in 2014, down from 49.7% in 2013, as improved consulting services and maintenance services margins were more than offset by lower product margin rates due to increased amortization of previously capitalized software and deal mix. In 2013, revenue increased $13 million or 1% from 2012, as a 7% increase in services revenue was largely offset by a 7% reduction in product revenue. The increase in services revenue was largely driven by revenue from the acquisition of eCircle. The revenue increase included a 3% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins decreased slightly to 49.7% in 2013, down from 50.1% in 2012, as improved consulting services and maintenance services margins were more than offset by a greater proportion of services (in relation to product revenue), compared to the prior-year period. Changes in segment reporting. Beginning January 2015, the Company will change its operating segments and report future results as two new separate segments: (a) data and analytics and (b) marketing applications. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2014 with $834 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $139 million increase from the December 31, 2013 balance, after using approximately $551 million for repurchases of Company common stock, and approximately $69 million for acquisitions and investment activities which were completed during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $170 million to $680 million in 2014. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a positive change in working capital, largely driven by decreased receivables, along with a smaller decrease in current payables and accrued expenses as compared to the prior year. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2014 2013 2012 Net income $ 367 $ 377 $ 419 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 680 $ 510 $ 575 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (54 ) (60 ) (67 ) Additions to capitalized software (75 ) (78 ) (81 ) Free cash flow $ 551 $ 372 $ 427 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. In 2014 and 2013, these other investing activities primarily consisted of immaterial complementary business acquisitions and equity investment activities that were closed during these years. Other investing activities in 2012 primarily consisted of Teradatas acquisition of eCircle, as well as other smaller equity investment activities. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2014 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and $220 million in proceeds from the Company's credit facility, as discussed below. Teradata's financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share 34 Table of Contents repurchases. The Company purchased 13 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $43.09 in 2014, 7.8 million shares at an average price per share of $48.53 in 2013 and 4.5 million shares at an average price per share of $62.53 in 2012. Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. On February 6, 2012, the board approved a new $300 million share repurchase authorization to replace a prior $300 million authorization under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), that was to expire on February 10, 2012. Since February 2012 Teradatas board of directors has approved, in $300 million increments, additional share repurchase authorizations for a total of $1.2 billion under the Companys general share repurchase program on December 10, 2012, October 14, 2013, May 5, 2014 and December 18, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had $394 million of authorization remaining under the general share repurchase program to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions, as well as merger and acquisition opportunities. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $29 million in 2014, $28 million in 2013 and $55 million in 2012. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $785 million as of December 31, 2014 and $615 million as of December 31, 2013. The remaining balance held in the United States was $49 million as of December 31, 2014 and $80 million as of December 31, 2013. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and potential foreign withholding taxes. As of December 31, 2014, we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. In June 2012, Teradata entered into a five-year revolving credit agreement (the Credit Facility), under which the Company may borrow up to $300 million. The Credit Facility expires on June 15, 2017, at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. The revolving credit facility carries a floating interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The blended rate at December 31, 2014 was 1.14%. The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of December 31, 2014 , the Company borrowed $220 million under the Credit Facility to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock, leaving $80 million in additional borrowing capacity available. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2014 . In April 2011, Teradata entered into a $300 million five-year unsecured term loan. The outstanding principal amount of the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2014, the term loan principal outstanding was $248 million, and carries an interest rate of 1.1875%. The Company anticipates refinancing and increasing its existing term loan in the first quarter of 2015, to fund share repurchases and to replenish its capacity under the Credit Facility. Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and its $80 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If 35 Table of Contents the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2014, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2016- 2018- 2020 and In millions Amounts 2015 2017 2019 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term debt $ 248 $ 53 $ 195 $ $ Interest payments on long-term debt 4 3 1 Principal payments on short-term debt 220 220 Lease obligations 79 23 33 16 7 Purchase obligations 9 6 3 Total debt, lease and purchase obligations $ 560 $ 305 $ 232 $ 16 $ 7 Our principal payments on long-term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $300 million term loan and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long-term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate on our $300 million term loan as of December 31, 2014. Our principal payments on short-term debt represent the expected cash payment on our $300 million Credit Facility, of which $220 million is currently outstanding. Our lease obligations in the above table include Company facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, the Company has $18 million in total uncertain tax positions recorded as non-current liabilities on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2014. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for these income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities; however, it is not expected that any payments will be due within the next 12 months. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. Product warranties and third-party guarantees are described in detail in Note 8Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 6Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management 36 Table of Contents periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires a greater degree of judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all deliverables of the arrangement, and in determining the relative selling price of each deliverable, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. The Company reviews the relative selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the year ended December 31, 2014 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the relative selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Capitalized Software Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product is charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuation in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates are largely based upon the pre-tax earnings mix and allocation of certain expenses in various taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business. These jurisdictions apply a broad range of statutory income tax rates; the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate is currently 35% as compared to the overall statutory effective tax rate of our various foreign jurisdictions of approximately 12%. As of December 31, 2014, the Company has not provided for federal income taxes on earnings of approximately $1 billion from its foreign subsidiaries. 37 Table of Contents We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2014, the Company has a total of $36 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $18 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet and $3 million is recorded in other current liabilities in income taxes payable as the Company expects to settle this uncertain tax position within the next twelve months. The remaining balance of $15 million of unrecognized tax benefits relates to certain tax attribute carryforwards both generated by the Company and acquired in various acquisitions, which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We had $20 million and $13 million recorded in valuation allowances as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Due to a change in tax law enacted in the state of California in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company established a valuation allowance to partially offset its California Research & Development tax credit carryforward deferred tax asset, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California Research & Development tax credits into the foreseeable future. However, the discrete tax impact of establishing the valuation allowance was fully offset with a favorable discrete tax impact resulting from a decrease in the Companys effective state tax rate resulting from the California change in tax law, resulting in no material net impact to the Companys overall effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2012. Stock-based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize pricing models, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation at the date of grant. These valuation models require the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. Further, we estimate forfeitures for options granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. In addition, we issue performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, the company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The company determines the fair value of its reporting units based on the income approach. Under the income approach, the company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the second step of the impairment test is performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill 38 Table of Contents exceeds its implied fair value, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. Teradata reviewed four reporting units in its 2014 goodwill impairment assessment, as each geographic operating segment consisted of separate reporting units for data warehouse and application software activities. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Additionally, the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate any excess purchase price consideration between net assets and goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. The annual goodwill impairment analysis, which the company performed during the fourth quarter of 2014, did not result in an impairment charge. However, our applications business experienced lower than forecasted revenue and margins in 2014. As a result, the applications reporting units are at greater risk for impairment if actual results differ from projections. The fair value of the Americas applications reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by 68%. The amount of goodwill allocated to this reporting unit was $396 million. The fair value of the other three reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value. There were also no impairment charges recognized in 2014 as a result of assessments of intangible assets acquired as a result of business combinations (or otherwise purchased from other companies). As of December 31, 2014, Teradata had $948 million in goodwill and $136 million in acquired intangible assets on its consolidated balance sheet. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We have pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2014, a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $6 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $16 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference. 39 Table of Contents