Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (the "2022 Annual Report"). The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a leading connected multi-cloud data platform for enterprise analytics, focused on helping companies leverage all their data across an enterprise, at scale. In doing so, we help companies to find answers to their toughest business challenges. All of our efforts are in support of our purpose of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. Our platform is composed of our data platform Teradata Vantage which is designed to run across public cloud, private cloud and on-premises environments. This platform is supported by business consulting and support services that enable customers to extract insights from across a companys entire data and analytics ecosystem. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including migrating existing customers to the cloud, expanding our Teradata Vantage multi-cloud data platform product offering (which includes VantageCloud, VantageCloud 18 Table of Contents Lake, VantageCloud Enterprise and ClearScape Analytics), adding new customers and expanding our footprint with existing customers, increasing our focus on diversity and inclusiveness, and driving operational excellence and agility across the Company. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Total Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts, including subscription, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance. ARR does not include managed services and third-party revenue. Public Cloud ARR (included within total ARR) - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts related to public cloud implementations of Teradata VantageCloud and does not include ARR related to private or managed cloud implementations. Cloud Net Expansion Rate - Teradata calculates its last-twelve months dollar-based cloud net expansion rate as of a fiscal quarter end as follows: Identify ARR for active cloud customers in the fiscal quarter ending one year prior to the given fiscal quarter (the "base period"); Identify Public Cloud ARR in the given fiscal quarter (the "current period") from the same set of active cloud customers as the base period, including increases in usage, as well as reductions and cancellations, and additional conversions of on-premises revenues to the cloud for customers active in the base period, all in constant currency; Cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the ARR from the current period and dividing by the ARR from the base period (all quarterly-dollar based); and The last twelve-month dollar-based cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the average of the quarterly dollar-based cloud net expansion rate from the last fiscal quarter and the prior three fiscal quarters. COVID-19 Update There have not been any material changes to the COVID-19 Update previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the 2022 Annual Report. 19 Table of Contents First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2023: At the end of the first quarter of 2023, ARR was $1.506 billion compared to $1.427 billion in the first quarter of 2022, increasing 6% as compared to the first quarter of 2022, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency translation. At the end of first quarter of 2023, Public Cloud ARR was $388 million compared to $209 million in the first quarter of 2022, increasing 86% as compared to the first quarter of 2022, including a 3%adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Total revenue was $476 million for the first quarter of 2023, a 4% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2022, with an underlying 1% increase in recurring revenue. Revenue was impacted primarily by foreign currency fluctuations in the first quarter of 2023. Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue decreased 50%, and consulting services revenue decreased 12%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 4% adverse impact on total revenue for the quarter compared to the prior year. There was approximately 1% of growth from annual upfront software subscription revenue, which was offset by the loss of the partial period of revenue recognized from the Russia operations that we ceased in the first quarter last year. Gross margin increased to 63.4% in the first quarter of 2023 from 60.7% in the first quarter of 2022, primarily due to positive revenue mix, given the increased proportion of recurring revenue, as well as improved recurring revenue margins due to a larger component of recurring revenue recognized upfront in the period, and costs in the first quarter of 2022 associated with ceasing our business operations in Russia that did not repeat in the first quarter of 2023. These factors were offset in part by the impact of adverse foreign currency fluctuations, and lower margins in consulting services and perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue in the first quarter of 2023. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2023 decreased by 4% compared to the first quarter of 2022, primarily due to higher costs in the first quarter of 2022 associated with the unplanned closure of our operations in Russia that did not repeat in the first quarter of 2023, as well as lower research and development expenses in the first quarter of 2023. Operating income was $79 million in the first quarter of 2023, compared to $68 million in the first quarter of 2022. Net income in the first quarter of 2023 was $40 million, compared to net income of $36 million in the first quarter of 2022. Cloud Net Expansion Rate for the first quarter of 2023 was 119%, compared to 128% for the first quarter of 2022. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenue % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Recurring $ 389 81.7 % $ 386 77.9 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 13 2.7 % 26 5.2 % Consulting services 74 15.6 % 84 16.9 % Total revenue $ 476 100 % $ 496 100 % Total revenue decreased $20 million, or 4%, in the first quarter of 2023, including a 4% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue increased by 1%, including a 3% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. As a percentage of total revenue, recurring revenue was 82% in the first quarter. The recurring revenue increase was due primarily to an increase in Cloud revenue from expansions and migrations. Recurring revenue also included a benefit from annual upfront software subscription revenue associated with on-premises subscription software of approximately 1%, which was offset by the loss of the partial period of revenue recognized from the Company's Russia operations in 2022, prior to exiting that business late in the first quarter of 2022. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other declined 50% in the first quarter of 2023, primarily due to our continued transition to recurring subscriptions. Consulting services revenue decreased12% in the first quarter of 2023, including a 7% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations, primarily due to our continued realignment of our consulting resources on higher-margin engagements and engagements with customers and partners that drove increased software consumption within our targeted customer base. Financial and Performance Measures Our ARR is composed of three main categories: (1) Public Cloud ARR, (2) ARR related to on-premises subscription-based contracts and private cloud ("Subscription ARR"), and (3) ARR related to our legacy perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights. At March 31, our ARR consisted of: In millions 2023 2022 Public Cloud $ 388 $ 209 Subscription 859 876 Maintenance and Software upgrade rights 259 342 Total ARR $ 1,506 $ 1,427 Cloud Net Expansion rate 119 % 128 % At the end of the first quarter of 2023, total ARR increased 6% as compared to the first quarter of 2022, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. At the end of first quarter of 2023, Public Cloud ARR increased 86% as compared to the first quarter of 2022, including a 3% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Public Cloud ARR grew in all three geographic regions year-over-year. Public Cloud ARR growth in the first quarter of 2023 was driven primarily by expansions and migrations. This expansion and migration activity primarily came from customers that are new to the cloud with Teradata (i.e., migration from current on-premises Vantage platform). Many of these customers are adding incremental workloads onto our Vantage cloud platform while also maintaining hybrid environments on Teradata. In the first quarter, we saw the following trends: Increasing number of existing cloud customers who are adding new, incremental workloads to the cloud. Customers expanding into additional cloud capabilities when they migrate to VantageCloud as compared to the capabilities they had in an on-premises environment. 21 Table of Contents Existing on-premises customers are adding new, incremental cloud workloads when expanding into hybrid environments. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 30, 2023, Teradata is estimating a 1.25%-to-1.75% negative impact from currency translation on our 2023 full-year total reported revenues. Teradata re-affirms the following outlook for the full year 2023: Public cloud ARR is expected to increase in the range of 53% to 57% year-over-year. Total ARR is expected to increase in the range of 6% to 8% year-over-year. Total recurring revenue is expected to increase in the range of 4% to 7% year-over-year. Total revenue is expected to increase in the range of 1% to 4% year-over-year. 22 Table of Contents Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Recurring $ 291 74.8 % $ 281 72.8 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 2 15.4 % 8 30.8 % Consulting services 9 12.2 % 12 14.3 % Total gross profit $ 302 63.4 % $ 301 60.7 % The increase in recurring revenue gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to upfront revenue and an increase in expansions associated with on-premises subscription software renewals partially off-set by negative currency impact. The decrease in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased as compared to the prior year primarily due to lower revenue. We continue to refocus our consulting organization on Teradata Vantage-oriented offerings and reduce our footprint in non-core consulting engagements, accompanied by our strategic development of a partner ecosystem. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 153 32.1 % $ 157 31.7 % Research and development expenses 70 14.7 % 76 15.3 % Total operating expenses $ 223 46.8 % $ 233 47.0 % The selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A") decrease was primarily driven by higher costs in the prior year period associated with the unplanned closure of our operations in Russia. Research and development ("R&D") expense decreasedyear over year due to continued cost discipline. Other Expense, net In millions 2023 2022 Interest income $ 7 $ 2 Interest expense (7) (6) Other (21) (9) Other expense, net $ (21) $ (13) Other expense, net in the first quarter of 2023 and 2022 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, as well as benefit costs on our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense is higher in 2023 primarily due to increased foreign currency losses of $12 million as compared to the prior period. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The effective tax rates for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were as follows: 2023 2022 Effective tax rate 31.0 % 34.5 % 23 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company recorded $2 million of net discrete tax benefits, a majority of which related to the excess tax benefit derived from stock-based compensation vesting. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded a total of $4 million of net discrete tax benefits, a majority of which related to the excess tax benefit derived from stock-based compensation vesting. In addition, our effective tax rate increased by 9% as a result of the forecasted GILTI tax liability, which increased as a result of the requirement in the U.S. to capitalize and amortize R&D for tax purposes, which became effective on January 1, 2022. Effective on January 1, 2022, the U.S. tax law changed to require that R&D expenses be capitalized and amortized for tax purposes under Internal Revenue Code Section 174; as a result of this law change, we are currently forecasting approximately $5 million of tax expense related to GILTI in our marginal effective tax rate for 2023. We expect that a majority of our foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where we conduct our business. We estimate that the full-year effective tax rate for 2023 will be approximately 36%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction, the estimated impact to GILTI tax as a result of the requirement to capitalize R&D for tax purposes, and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2023. The forecasted tax rate is based on the foreign profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 25%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%. 24 Table of Contents Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also our operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by our management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). The following table presents segment revenue and segment gross profit for the Company for the three months ended March 31: % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 292 61.3 % $ 290 58.5 % EMEA 117 24.6 % 129 26.0 % APJ 67 14.1 % 77 15.5 % Total segment revenue $ 476 100 % $ 496 100.0 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 193 66.1 % $ 189 65.2 % EMEA 74 63.2 % 78 60.5 % APJ 39 58.2 % 45 58.4 % Total segment gross profit $ 306 64.3 % $ 312 62.9 % Americas Americas revenue increased 1% as compared to the prior year, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The increase in revenues was due to an increase in recurring revenue of 4%, which was partially off-set by decreases in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue and consulting revenue of 58% ($7 million) and 3% ($1 million), respectively, as compared to the prior year. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to improved consulting services margins, increase in upfront revenue and favorable deal mix in recurring, offset in part by lower perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue margins. EMEA EMEA revenue decreased 9%, which included an 8% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall decrease in EMEA revenue included a decrease of 2% in recurring revenue, a decrease of 36% ($4 million) in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue, and a decrease of 21% ($6 million) in consulting revenue. EMEA revenue in all categories was negatively impacted primarily by foreign currency fluctuations. The decrease was also driven by the lack of revenue from Russia, compared to a partial quarter of Russia revenue in 2022, prior to the Company's exit. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenues in the period. APJ APJ revenue decreased 13%, including an 8% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue decreased by 10% ($5 million), perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue decreased by 67% ($2 million), and consulting revenue decreased by 13% ($3 million). Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to reduced revenues, notably recurring revenue. 25 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $109 million, which decreased by $42 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a $50 million tax refund received the first quarter of 2022 related to our Cares Act carryback claim partially off-set by the timing of improved working capital dynamics. Teradata used approximately $15 million of cash in the first three months of 2023 for reorganizing and restructuring its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy, as compared to $10 million in the first three months of 2022. Teradatas management uses a financial measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We use free cash flow (which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less investing activities related to capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software) as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchases of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities related to capital expenditures, along with free cash flow, for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, In millions 2023 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 109 $ 151 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (4) (1) Free cash flow $ 105 $ 150 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other material investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on our finance leases. At March 31, 2023, we had no outstanding borrowings on our $400 million Revolving Facility (as defined below). We have two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors: The dilution offset share repurchase program allows us to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent (i) cash is received from the exercise of stock options and (ii) employees purchase Teradata stock pursuant to the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The purpose of the dilution offset share repurchase program is to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to the exercise of stock options and shares purchased under the ESPP. Our open market share repurchase program provides for the repurchase of Teradata stock periodically on an ongoing basis in open market transactions, through 10b5-1 programs, through accelerated share repurchase programs, in privately negotiated transactions, or through the use of derivative instruments, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. The open market share repurchase program will expire on December 31, 2025. On November 1, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion for share repurchases under the open market share repurchase program. There is a total authority of $758 million remaining under the open market share repurchase program as of March 31, 2023. 26 Table of Contents In the aggregate under the dilution offset share repurchase program and the open market share repurchase program, we repurchased approximately 2.3 million shares of common stock at an average price per share of $37.69 in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Share repurchases are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Other financing activities, including net share settlement for the payroll tax liability of section 16 officers (as discussed in Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds), offset by proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax was a net outflow of $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and a net inflow of $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The ESPP proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $414 million as of March 31, 2023 and $405 million as of December 31, 2022. The remaining balance held in the United States ("U.S.") was$137 million as of March 31, 2023 and $164 million as of December 31, 2022. The Company expects that a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the 2022 Annual Report and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the Credit Facility or its term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. On June 28, 2022, we entered into a Credit Agreement that provides for (i) a five-year unsecured term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the "Term Loan"), and (ii) a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $400 million, including a $50 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $50 million sublimit for swingline loans (the "Revolving Facility" and, collectively with the Term Loan, the "Credit Facility").The Credit Facility replaces our prior revolving credit agreement in the maximum principal of $400 million and our prior term loan agreement in the principal amount of $500 million, both of which were entered into in 2018 (the "Prior Agreements"). In connection with the execution of the Credit Facility, the $400 million term loan outstanding under the Prior Agreements was repaid in full. Our long-term debt is discussed in Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). In addition, as disclosed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), Teradata entered into an interest rate swap to hedge approximately 90% of the floating interest rate of the total $500 million Term Loan and a cross currency swap to hedge a portion of Euro currency exposure of its net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2022 Annual Report. Our commitments and contingencies are discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be 27 Table of Contents made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. We assessed certain accounting matters that generally require consideration of forecasted financial information in context with the information reasonably available to us as of March 31, 2023 and through the date of this report. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to, our allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, financial assets, valuation allowances for tax assets and revenue recognition. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2022 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2023. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.