Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Companys definitive proxy statement for its 201 6 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III. 2 PART I Item 1. Business General IKONICS Corporation (IKONICS or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota as Chroma-Glo, Inc. in 1952 and changed its name to The Chromaline Corporation in 1982. In December 2002, the Company changed its name to IKONICS Corporation. The Companys three traditional businesses, Domestic, IKONICS Imaging and Export, have been the development, manufacture and selling of photosensitive liquids (emulsions) and films for the screen printing and awards and recognition industries. These sales have been augmented with inkjet receptive films, ancillary chemicals and related equipment to provide a full line of products and services to its customers. These products are sold worldwide primarily through distributors. In 2006, the Company began a major effort to diversify and expand its business to industrial markets. These efforts now include the Companys Advanced Material Solutions (AMS) business unit which uses the Companys proprietary processes and photoresist film for the abrasive etching of composite materials, industrial ceramics, silicon wafers, and glass wafers. The customer base for AMS is primarily the aerospace and electronics industries. Based on its expertise in ultraviolet curable fluids and inkjet receptive substrates, the Company has also developed a patented digital texturing technology (DTX) for putting patterns and textures into steel molds for the plastic injection molding industry. The ultimate original equipment manufacturer (OEM) for the Companys DTX technology is primarily the automotive industry. The Company offers a suite of products to the mold making industry. Industrial inkjet printers, which are integral to the DTX system, are manufactured and sold by a strategic partner. The Companys business plan is to sell consumable fluids and transfer films. For most markets , these sales are direct to the mold maker. The DTX technology is being expanded to prototyping where the Companys technology offers a unique combination of high definition, large format prints, and abrasion resistance. Products The Company has four primary technology platforms: Ultraviolet (UV) chemistry, film coating and construction, technical abrasive etching, and industrial inkjet printing. The Companys traditional products and new initiatives are based on these platforms and their combinations. The Companys Chromaline branded products for the screen printing industry and I KONICS Imaging products for the awards and recognition market are based on UV chemistry and film coating and construction capabilities; the AMS offering is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction and technical abrasive etching capabilities; DTX is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction, and industrial inkjet printing. There is overlap and synergy in the market between the Domestic, Ikonics Imaging, AMS and DTX product offerings, and the Company offers ancillary products, including equipment to provide customers with a total solution. The Company considers this combination of core technologies and product offerings to be unique. Distribution and Customers The Company currently has approximately 2 00 domestic and international distributors for its Chromaline and ImageMate screen printing emulsions and films. The Companys abrasive etching products are mainly sold directly to end users in the awards and recognition market under the Ikonics Imaging brand. AMS products are sold either directly to users or the Company offers AMS as a service. DTX includes the sales of consumable inks and films to customers that have purchased specialized industrial inkjet printers from the Companys strategic partner. DTX sales are both direct to users and through distributors. The Company markets and sells its products through magazine advertising, trade shows and the internet. The Company has a diverse customer base both domestically and abroad , with international sales accounting for 2 7 . 9 % of total sales in 201 5 , and does not depend on one or a few customers for a material portion of its revenues. In 201 5 and 201 4 , no one customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales. Quality Control in Manufacturing In March 1994, IKONICS became the first firm in northern Minnesota to receive ISO 9001 certification. ISO 9000 is a worldwide standard issued by the International Organization for Standardization that provides a framework for quality assurance. The Company has been recertified every three years beginning in 3 1997. IKONICS quality function goal is to train all employees properly in both their work and in the importance of their work. Internal records of quality, including related graphs and tables, are reviewed regularly and discussions are held among management and employees regarding how improvements might be realized. The Company has rigorous materials selection procedures and also uses testing procedures to assure its products meet quality standards. Research and Development and Intellectual Property The Company spent 3. 8 % of sales , or $66 0 ,000 , on research and development in 201 5 , and 3. 6 % of sales , or $6 65 ,000 , in 201 4 . In its research program, IKONICS has developed ultraviolet light-sensitive chemistries used in the manufacture of screen print stencils, photoresists for abrasive etching and acid resist and prototyping ink jet fluids and ink jet receptive films. The Company has a number of patents and patent applications on these chemistries and applications. There can be no assurance that any patent granted to the Company will provide adequate protection to the Companys intellectual property. Within the Company, steps are taken to protect the Companys trade secrets, including physical security, confidentiality and non-competition agreements with employees, non-disclosure agreements where applicable, and confidentiality agreements with vendors. Over the past few years, the Company has directed a larger portion of it research and development resources towards industrial inkjettable fluids and ink jet receptive substrates. The Company has also invested significant resources for personnel and equipment to develop proprietary products and techniques for the etching of composite materials, industrial ceramics and electronic wafers. In addition to its patents, the Company has various trademarks including the IKONICS, Chromaline, IKONICS Imaging, Precision Abrasive Machining, SmartFlex, PhotoBrasive, AccuArt, Nichols, image mate, Alpha FlexTrace, Alpha MicroCap, and DTX trademarks. Raw Materials The primary raw materials used by IKONICS in its production are photopolymers, polyester films, polyvinylacetates, polyvinylalcohols and water. The Companys purchasing staff leads in the identification of both domestic and foreign sources for raw materials and negotiates price and terms for all domestic and foreign markets. IKONICS involvement in foreign markets has given it the opportunity to become a global buyer of raw materials at lower overall cost. The Company has a number of suppliers for its operations. Some suppliers provide a significant amount of key raw materials to the Company, but the Company believes alternative sources are available for most materials. For those raw materials where an alternative source is not readily available, the Company has contingency raw material replacement plans. To date, there have been no significant shortages of raw materials. The Company believes it has good supplier relations. Competition The Company competes in its markets based on product development capability, quality, reliability, availability, technical support and price. Though the screen printing market is much larger than the awards and recognition market, IKONICS commands significantly more market share in the latter. IKONICS has two primary domestic competitors in its screen printing film business. They are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources than the Company in many areas. The Company has numerous competitors in the market for screen print emulsions, many of whom are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources. The market for the Companys abrasive etching products in the awards and recognition market has one significant competitor. IKONICS considers itself to be the leader in this market. There are significant competitors, using different technologies in the new markets being entered by the Company. The primary competition for AMS is from other machining methods, most of which are well established. The primary competition for DTX comes from old, well-established technologies based on wax and screen printing and new competition from laser technologies. Government Regulation The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local industrial laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of material into the environment and protection of the environment. The governmental authorities primarily responsible for regulating the Companys environmental compliance are the Environmental Protection Agency, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Western Lake Superior Sanitary District. Failure to comply with the laws promulgated by these authorities may result in monetary sanctions, liability for environmental 4 clean-up and other equitable remedies. To maintain compliance, the Company may make occasional changes in its waste generation and disposal procedures. These laws and regulations have not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures or competitive position of the Company. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with the various federal, state and local regulations that apply to its current operations. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. The Company also is subject to regulations from foreign governments covering the importation of certain chemicals. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with these regulations that apply to its current products. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. Employees As of February 2 6 , 201 6 , the Company had approximately 82 full-time employees, 7 7 of whom are located at the Companys two facilities in Duluth, Minnesota and five of whom are outside technical sales representatives in various locations in the United States. None of the Companys employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and the Company believes that its employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors The Companys DTX and AMS initiatives involve new technologies that might not be executed successfully and might not achieve market acceptance, which would adversely affect the Companys results of operation, financial condition and prospects. The Companys DTX and AMS initiatives involve new technologies that might never achieve market acceptance. During 201 5 and 201 4 , the Company generated operating losses in its AMS segment and in 2014 its DTX segment realized an operating loss . The Companys ability for generating profits from these initiatives will depend on its products gaining market acceptance among customers, which cannot be guaranteed. The degree of market acceptance of any new products the Company develops will depend on a number of factors, including: the Companys ability to successfully develop its technologies and products to include the capabilities the Company intends; the Companys ability to accurately assess the functions and features customers desire; the perceived effectiveness and price of the Companys products compared to alternative products and technologies; the development of new products and technologies by current competitors or new competitors that might enter the Companys markets; and the strength of the Companys marketing and distribution functions. If new products that the Company develops do not have the capabilities the Company expects or fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by customers for any reason, then the Companys AMS and DTX business units could fail to generate the revenues the Company expects and may not become profitable or sustain profitability. If the Companys new products and technologies do not achieve market acceptance, the Company will not realize a return on its investments in its new business initiatives. The Company has invested, and plans to continue to invest, significant resources in its research and development efforts to develop technology for its AMS and DTX business units. The Company spent 3. 8 % of sales, or $6 60 ,000, on research and development in 201 5 and 3. 6 % of sales, or $ 665 ,000, in 201 4 . A substantial portion of these investments was in the Companys AMS and DTX initiatives. The Company plans to continue to invest significant resources in research and development on these initiatives in the foreseeable future. The Company believes successful 5 execution of these initiatives is important for its ability to grow its revenues and profits. However, if the Company fails to generate its projected revenues in these business units, the Companys investments in these areas would not generate the profits the Company expects and its results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Adverse changes to global economic conditions generally, and to the aerospace and automotive industries in particular, may harm the Companys business. The prospects for economic growth in the United States and other countries remain uncertain and major economies where the Company conducts business could continue or return to recessionary conditions. Economic concerns and issues such as reduced access to capital for businesses may cause the Companys customers to delay or reduce purchases of the Companys products. Given the continued uncertainty concerning the global economy, the Company also faces risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by suppliers and customers, such as an inability to collect receivables or the continued operation of suppliers. The Companys AMS segment focuses primarily on customers in the aerospace industry, and its DTX segment focuses primarily on customers in the automotive industry. The aerospace and automotive industries have experienced volatility in prior years in a manner similar to or greater than the global economy generally. If either or both these industries experiences difficulties that reduce demand for their products generally, the Companys results of operations, financial condition and prospects would suffer. The Company faces risks related to sales to government subcontractors, including potential delays or cancellations of planned sales and additional regulatory compliance costs and obligations. The Companys customers for its AMS business unit manufacture aerospace products, and the Company derives a portion of its revenue as a subcontractor to general contractors working for the U.S. government. As a government subcontractor, demand and payment for the Companys products may be adversely affected by public sector budgetary cycles or funding authorizations. Any cancellation or delay of product orders would adversely affect the Companys operating results and financial condition. In addition, government subcontractors are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews and security. This additional oversight could increase the Companys compliance costs and creates risk of a failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations. A failure to comply with these rules and regulations could result in termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, debarment from future government business or other penalties, any of which could adversely affect the Companys business. The Company faces significant competition and expects to face increasing competition in many aspects of its businesses, which could cause operating results to suffer. The Company operates in highly competitive industries that experience rapid technological and market developments, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements, particularly with respect to the AMS and DTX businesses. If the Company is unable to anticipate and respond to these developments, its products or technologies could become uncompetitive or obsolete. Most of the Companys competitors in the AMS and DTX fields are larger and better capitalized than the Company with longer operating histories. These advantages could allow the Companys competitors to invest more in research and development and sales and marketing than the Company, which could make the competitive products more attractive or better known to consumers than the Companys products. In addition, because there is rapid technological change in fields in which the Company operates, the Company could face competition from new sources in the future that customers find more attractive. The Company also could face increased competition in its traditional Domestic and IKONICS Imaging units. Capital costs for machinery necessary to operate in these industries have decreased in recent years, increasing the possibility that the Company will face new competitors. An increase in the amount of competition the Company faces, or a loss of competitiveness in any of the Companys business units for any reason, could adversely affect its revenues and gross margins. 6 The Companys failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm its business and results of operations. The manufacturing of the Companys products requires the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. The Companys failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of manufacturing processes; and restrictions on the Companys operations or sales. The Companys failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. Environmental laws and regulations also could require the Company to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs or incur other expenses. Third parties may claim the Company infringes their intellectual property rights, which could harm the Companys business. The Company may face claims that it infringes other parties intellectual rights. Regardless of a claims merit, claims that the Companys products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could cause the Company to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. As a result of any intellectual property rights infringement claims, the Company could be required to: pay infringement claims; stop manufacturing, using, or selling products or technology subject to infringement claims; develop other products or technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming, costly or impossible; or license technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. These actions could harm the Companys competitive position, result in additional expenses, or require the Company to impair its assets. If the Company alters or stops production of affected items, its revenue could be harmed. The Company may be unable to enforce or protect its intellectual property rights, which may harm its ability to compete and may harm its business. The Companys ability to enforce its patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of the Companys intellectual property rights in various countries. If the Company seeks to enforce its rights, it could become subject to claims that its intellectual property rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. The Companys assertion of intellectual property rights also could result in the other party seeking to assert claims against the Company, which could harm the Companys business. The Companys inability to enforce its intellectual property rights for any reason could harm its competitive position and business. 7 If the Company is unable to protect the confidentiality of its proprietary information and know-how, the value of its technology could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, the Company relies on unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. The Company generally seeks to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and the Company may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, the Companys trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that the Companys employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the Company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. The Company operates a global business that exposes it to additional risks. The Company operates throughout the world, including in the United States, Europe and China. These international operations create a variety of risks and uncertainties, including: rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions, political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; compliance with and changes in foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the FCPA), as amended; different, complex and changing laws governing intellectual property rights, sometimes affording companies lesser protection in certain areas; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers; and potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect the Companys international business and, consequently, its results of operations generally. The Company faces risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. During 201 5 , approximately 70 % of the Companys sales, including nearly all sales of its Domestic products and nearly all of its International sales, were conducted through third parties. Using third parties for distribution exposes the Company to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk and compliance risks. Distributors may sell products that compete with the Companys products, and the loss of a distributor could reduce the Companys revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm the Companys collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the FCPA or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on the Companys business. Failing to manage risks related to the Companys use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken its competitive position. Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact the Companys financial results. Certain raw materials needed to manufacture products are obtained from a limited number of suppliers and many of the raw materials are petroleum-based. Under normal market conditions, these raw materials are generally available on the open market from a variety of producers. While alternate supplies of most key raw materials are available, supplier production outages may lead to strained supply-demand situations for certain raw materials. The substitution of key raw materials could require the Company to identify new supply sources, or reformulate and retest products or processes. From time to time, the prices and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate, which could 8 impair the Companys ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing products. If the prices of raw materials increase in a short period of time, the Company may be unable to pass these increases on to its customers in a timely manner or at all, which could reduce its gross margins. Like most companies in the Companys industries, the Company does not have long-term supply contracts for most of its key raw materials, which exacerbates the foregoing risks to the Company. If any of the Companys present single or limited source suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, its customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Company acquires certain of its materials that are critical to its operations from a limited number of third parties. Should any of the Companys current single or limited source suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, or impose terms unacceptable to the Company such as increased pricing terms, the Company could be required to spend a significant amount of time and expense to develop alternate sources of supply, and may not be successful in doing so on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to find a suitable supplier for a particular material, it could be required to modify its existing business processes or offerings to accommodate the situation. As a result, the loss of a single or limited source supplier could adversely affect the Companys relationship with its customers and its results of operations and financial condition. The Company depends on one manufacturer to make and sell DTX printers. If the manufacturer ceased to make or sell DTX printers, or failed to meet quality standards, the Companys financial results and prospects would be adversely affected. The Company relies on one company to manufacture and sell DTX printers. If the manufacturer ceased to produce or devote resources to selling DTX printers, due to a change in company strategy, to focus on alternative initiatives, or for any other reason, the Company would need to find an alternative manufacturer and seller of DTX printers. Finding an alternative manufacturer and seller of DTX printers could result in additional costs and delays in growing the Companys DTX business unit, which would adversely affect the Companys financial results and prospects. In addition, if these manufacturers failed to produce DTX printers that satisfy the Companys quality standards, the Companys reputation with end users could be harmed and the Company could be forced to find a new manufacturer. Either of these results also would harm the Companys business and prospects. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely impact the Companys business. Sustaining and growing the Companys business depends on the recruitment, development and retention of qualified employees, including management and research and development personnel. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect the Companys operations. An active trading market for the Companys shares of common stock may not develop. The Companys common stock has been listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market since 1999 and persistently has experienced limited trading volume. There can be no assurance that an active public market for the Companys shares will develop or be sustained. The lack of an active trading market could adversely affect the price and liquidity of the Companys common stock. The Companys directors and officers own a large percentage of the Companys common stock, which may allow them to collectively exert significant influence over substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. As of December 31, 201 5 , the Companys directors and officers collectively beneficially owned approximately 33. 8 % of its common stock outstanding as of that date. As a result, the Companys directors and officers could exert significant influence over all matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, amendments to the Companys articles of incorporation, and extraordinary transactions such as mergers or going private transactions. These ownership positions may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or a change in the composition of the Companys board of directors. In addition, substantial sales of shares beneficially owned by our directors or officers could be viewed negatively by third parties and have a negative impact on the Companys stock price. 9 The price of the Companys common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of the Companys common stock has, and could continue to, fluctuate substantially in a short period of time. The price of the Companys common stock could vary for many reasons, including the following: future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors; introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors, or the failure of the Companys new products to meet expectations; the commencement of, or developments to, litigation involving the Company; quarterly variations in operating results, which the Company has experienced in the past and expects to experience in the future; business acquisitions or divestitures; or changes to the global economy in general, and the aerospace and automotive markets in particular. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Companys common stock. The market price of the Companys common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of the Companys shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the Companys performance. The Companys operating results and financial condition may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. The Companys operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and could vary due to a number of factors, some of which are outside of the Companys control. In addition, the Companys actual or projected operating results may fail to match its past performance. The Companys operating results and financial condition may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: the failure of the Companys new products to meet expectations; changes to the costs of raw materials, especially petroleum-based materials; the entry of new competitors into the Companys markets whether by established companies or by new companies; the geographic distribution of the Companys sales; changes in customer preferences or needs; changes in the amount that the Company invests to develop or acquire new technologies; delays between the Companys expenditures to develop new technologies and products and the generation of sales related thereto; changes in the Companys pricing policies or those of its competitors; changes in accounting rules and tax and other laws; and general economic and industry conditions that affect customer demand and product development trends. 10 Due to all of the foregoing factors and the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of the Companys operating results as an indicator of future performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Property The Company primarily conducts its operations in Duluth, Minnesota. The administrative, sales, research and development, quality and most of the manufacturing activities are housed in a 60,000 square-foot, four-story building, including a basement level. The building is approximately seventy years old and has been maintained in good condition. The Company also utilizes a 5,625 square-foot warehouse adjacent to the existing plant building that was constructed in 1997. These facilities are owned by the Company with no existing liens or leases. The Company also owns an approximately 11-acre property with a 3 5 ,000 square-foot manufacturing and warehouse facility. In addition to warehousing and shipping functions, the facility accommodates the Companys AMS business along with some manufacturing activities. The Company also leases 3,000 square feet of warehouse space at one location in Duluth. The lease term on this facility ends on March 31, 201 6 . In 2015, the Company beg an construction o f a 2 7 , 3 00 square-foot expansion to its 3 5 ,000 square-foot warehousing and manufacturing facility. The expansion w ill accommodate the Companys growing AMS business . The expansion project is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2016 . Item 3. Legal Proceedings None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 11 PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol IKNX. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the high and low sales prices for the Companys Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market for the periods indicated. High Low Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2015: First Quarter $ 20.43 $ 14.25 Second Quarter 16.00 13.75 Third Quarter 15.62 11.00 Fourth Quarter 12.00 9.76 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2014: First Quarter $ 31.02 $ 13.50 Second Quarter 29.00 19.90 Third Quarter 27.20 17.06 Fourth Quarter 17.82 14.03 As of February 24 , 201 6 , the Company had 6 83 shareholders. The Company has not declared cash dividends in the past two years and does not currently have plans to pay any cash dividends in the future. Any future declaration and payment of dividends is within the sole discretion of the Companys board of directors. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not applicable Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations and financial condition during 201 5 and 201 4 and should be read in connection with the Companys audited financial statements and notes thereto for the years ended December 31, 201 5 and 201 4 , included herein. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting policies and estimates which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year-end spot rate . The Company also maintains a 12 provision based upon historical experience and any specifically identified issues for any customer related returns, refunds or credits. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Income Taxes. Deferred taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. The Company follows the accounting standard on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under this guidance, the Company may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes also addresses derecognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, and accounting in interim periods. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes , which can occur at the time of shipment , or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within SAB 104 and FASB ASC 605 , Revenue Recognition: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The customer has no rotation or price protection rights and the Company is not under a warranty obligation. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 201 5 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 201 4 Sales. The Companys net sales de creased 5. 0 % in 201 5 to $1 7 . 6 million compared to the record net sales of $1 8 .5 million in 201 4 . Compared to 2014 , IKONICS Imaging sales in 2015 decreased $ 691 ,000, or 14 . 9 %, to $ 4.0 million. IKONICS Imaging sales in 2014 benefitted from a large non-recurring initial stocking order from its new 13 distributor, JDS Industries. Lower IKONICS Imaging glass sales related to a change in glass suppliers also contributed to the sales decrease. IKONICS Imagings previous glass supplier discontinued selling through distributors. Export sales in 2015 decreased $353,000, or 6.7%, compared to 2014 as sales were negatively impacted by the weaker European economy and stronger U.S. dollar. European and Asian sales were most affected by the strong U.S. dollar . Lower film and emulsion sales in 2015 resulted in a $239,000, or 3.0%, decrease in Domestic sales versus the same period in 2014. Partially offsetting these sales decreases was a $301,000, or 92% increase in AMS sales as the Company has begun to recei ve repeatable production orders which the Company e xpects to continue through 2016. DTX sales also increased $54,000 or 12.7% in 2015 versus 2014 as a result of higher film sales. Gross Profit. Gross profit in 2015 was $ 6.1 million, or 3 5.0 % of sales, compared to $ 6 . 7 million, or 36. 3 % of sales in 2014. The 2014 gross margin percentage benefited from the initial stocking order from JDS Industries. That initial stocking order was mainly comprised of film products, which have higher gross margins. Exports 2015 gross margin was down d ue to a decrease in higher margin sales to Europe . An improved sales mix offset lower Domestic volumes resulting in a higher 2015 gross margin compared to 2014. T he DTX gross margin improved to 46.5% in 2015 from 13.4% in 2014. The 2015 DTX gross margin improvement is related to higher volumes and lower person nel and depreciation expenses. The AMS 2015 gross margi n percentage improved versus 2014 due to an increase in volume. In 2016, the Company expects AMS production costs to increase and gross profit in the aggregate to decrease in the short term due to the completion of the building expansion to improve AMS produ ction capacity and capabilities as the Company plans for additional repeat production orders. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $5. 3 million, or 30 . 0 % of sales, in 201 5 compared to $5. 1 million, or 27 . 7 % of sales, in 201 4 . The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects higher travel and trade show expenses for domestic markets in addition to consulting expenses related the Companys ERP system selection process and employee training. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in 2014 benefitted from a $46,000 net gain on a sale of assets including a $49,000 gain recorded on a land sale. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses in 201 5 were $66 0 ,000, or 3. 8 % of sales, versus $6 65 ,000, or 3. 6 % of sales, in 201 4 . T he 2015 decrease is related to lower production trial and chemical costs partially offset by a $46,000 expense from the abandonment of patent applications. The Company records patent application costs as an asset and amortizes those costs upon successful completion of the application process or expenses those costs when an application is abandoned. Income Taxes. During 2015, the Company realized income tax expense of $90,000, or an effective rate of 40.0%, compared to income tax expense of $270,000, or an effective rate of 29.4%, for the same period in 2014. The decrease in income tax expense from 2014 is primarily due to lower profitability in 2015. The increase in the effective tax rate is mainly driven by a decrease in the domestic manufacturing deduction from lower profitability in 2015 . Additionally, the one-time valuation allowance release of $17,000 incurred in 2014 , which did not recur in 2015, and higher rate impact of non-deductible items resulting from significantly lower pre-tax book income in 2015 also contributed the 2015 effective tax rate increase . The income tax provision for the 2015 and 2014 periods differs from the expected tax rate due to the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction, credits for research and development, and other non-deductible items. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash and cash equivalents were $ 2.2 million and $ 1.9 million at December 31, 201 5 and 201 4 , respectively. In addition to its cash, the Company also held $1.8 million of short-term investments as of December 31, 2014 . The Company held no short-term investments as of December 31, 2015. The Company generated $ 1,4 66 ,0 00 in cash from operating activities during 201 5 , compared to generating $ 917,000 of cash from operating activities in 201 4 . Cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of the net income adjusted for non-cash depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. 14 During 2015, inventories decreased by $511,000. The lower inventory balance reflect s efforts to tighten inventory levels on hand along with the timing of raw material purchases. Trade receivables increased $69,000 related to increased fourth quarter sales. Accounts payable increased $49,000 due to the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors while accrued liabilities in creased $8,000. Income taxes receivables decreased $ 61 ,000 due to the timing of estimated 2015 tax payments compared to the calculated 2015 tax liability. During 2014, inventories increased by $76,000. In addition to increased finished goods levels, part of the inventory increase is related to the timing of raw material purchases. Trade receivables increased $45,000 related to the increase in sales volumes. The $17,000 decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets is related to a decrease in prepaid promotional expenses. Accounts payable decreased $161,000 due to the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors while accrued liabilities increased $31,000 due to the timing of the Companys payroll. The Companys income tax receivable increased $122,000 due to timing of estimated 2014 tax payments compared to the calculated 2014 tax liability. During 2015, cash used by investing activities was $1.2 million. F ifteen certificates of deposits totaling $2. 4 million matured during 2015. The Company purchased three certificates of deposits totaling $650,000 during the same period. The Companys purchases of property and equipment were $ 3.2 million. Total building expansion expenditures were $2.3 million, but $315,000 of the expenditures were included as part of construction payable and not as cash used in investing activities. Similarly, expenditures on the new ERP system in 2015 were $208,000 of which $18,000 was included as part of construction payable and not as cash used in investing activities. The remaining capital expenditures were mainly for upgrades to improve AMS production and process capabilities and costs associated with mandatory elevator upgrades. Also during 2015, the Company incurred $ 53 ,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. During 2014, investing activities used $731,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $434,000, mainly for improvements to AMS equipment, mandatory elevator upgrades, two forklifts and two vehicles. The Company realized $62,000 in proceeds from the sale of land and two vehicles. Also during 2014, the Company incurred $57,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $2.7 million in 18 fully insured certificates of deposit during 2014. Eighteen certificates of deposit totaling $2.4 million matured during 2014. In 2014, the Company received $4 6 ,000 from financing activities from the issuance of 6 , 083 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options. There were no exercises of stock options in 2015, resulting in no cash from or used for financing activities. A bank line of credit exists provid es for borrowings of up to $2,050,000 and expires on May 31, 2017. The line of credit is collateralized by the Companys assets and bears interest at 1.8 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during 2015 or 2014 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31 , 2015 and 2014. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that since it currently carries no long-term debt and has an available line of c redit , it is unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures In 2015, the Company incurred $ 3.2 million of capital expenditures , of which , $ 2.3 million was related to the building expansion , including the $3 15 ,000 in construction accounts payable . The remaining capital expenditures were mainly for upgrades to improve production and process capabilities for both AMS and the Companys traditional businesses, a new ERP system which will be completed in 2016 , data center equipment, and costs associated wit h mandatory elevator upgrades, including $18,000 in construction accounts payable. In 2014, the Company spent $434,000 on capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2014 were mainly for improvements to AMS capabilities, mandatory elevator upgrades, two forklifts and two vehicles. 15 The Company expects capital expenditures in 2016 of approximately $2.0 million. T he total cost of the Company s building expansion to accommodate the growth of its AMS operations is estimated to be approximately $3.5 million including the $ 2.3 million already incurred, although the expansion cost could vary based on unexpected factors that arise during construction. The Company anticipates the remaining amounts for the building expansion will be spent over the first half of 2016. The Company will also incur additional costs related to the installation of its new ERP system , which will be completed in 2016 , along with capital expenditures to improve AMS capacity and capabilities. Other expenditures will be incurred to enhance emulsion and film production along with research and development. Currently, the Company expects to fund its capital expenditures with existing cash, cash generated from operating activities and utilization of the Companys line of credit. The Company is also purs u ing $3.5 million in permanent financing as a source of funds for the expansion. International Activity The Company markets its products in numerous countries in various regions of the world, including North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. The Companys 201 5 foreign sales of $ 4.9 million were approximately 2 7 . 9 % of total sales, compared to the 201 4 foreign sales of $5. 3 million, which were 28.4 % of total sales. The Company experienced a decrease in foreign sales across all geographic regions in 201 5 due to poor general econom ic conditions in Europe and a strong U.S. dollar . The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, though a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of December 31, 201 5 . Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 201 5 or 201 4 . Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average approximately 4% of annual sales in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its DTX and AMS programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area to expedite internal product development as well as to form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company continues to make progress on its AMS business initiative. The Company has entered into agreements with major aerospace companies a long with working on smaller development programs to determine the feasibility of using its unique technologies in the production of military and commercial aircraft. Progress is being made on a number of these in-house feasibility projects, and the Company believes that several of these could lead to ongoing business. In anticipation of this business, the Company is expanding its AMS capacity and patent applications. The Company is also continuing to pursue DTX related business initiatives. In addition to making efforts towards growing the inkjet technology business, the Company offers a range of products for creating texture surfaces and has introduced a fluid for use in prototyping. The Company is currently working on production improvements to enhance its customer offerings. The Company has been awarded European, Japanese and United States patents on its DTX technologies. The Company has modified its DTX technology to enter the market for prototyping and 3D printing. Domestically, both the Domestic and IKONICS Imaging units remain profitable in mature markets and require aggressive strategies to grow market share. Although there will be challenges, the Company believes these businesses will continue to grow and prosper. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. However, the strong U.S. dollar made this challenging during 2015, and the Company anticipates continued strength of the U.S. dollar in the near term. In addition to the $3.5 million building expansion to accommodate the AMS division and the implementation of a new ERP system, other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. 16 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Revenue Recognition (Topic 605 ), and requires entities to recognize revenue in a way that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the adoption of ASU 2014-09 to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. Earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that adopting this new accounting guidance will have on its condensed statements of operations, cash flows and financial position. In 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern , intended to define managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an organizations ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for the Company in the year ended December 31, 2016, and interim periods beginning March 31, 2017, with early application permitted. The Company does not anticipate a material impact to the financial statements once implemented. In 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) Related to Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory which applies to all inventory except inventory that is measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method. Inventory measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost is covered by the new amendments. Inventory within the scope of the new guidance should be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. Subsequent measurement is unchanged for inventory measured using LIFO or the retail inventory method. The amendments will take effect for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The new guidance should be applied prospectively, and earlier application is permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the financial statements. In 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes , requiring that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The amendment takes effect for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption available. The Company plans to adopt ASU No. 2015-17 in the first quarter of 2016. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the financial statements.