Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations and financial condition during 2009 and 2008 and should be read in connection with the Companys audited financial statements and notes thereto for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, included herein. Factors that May Affect Future Results Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those summarized below, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include those identified below. The Companys belief that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections This belief may be impacted by domestic economic conditions, by economic, political, regulatory or social conditions in foreign markets, or by the failure of the Company to properly implement or maintain internal controls. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity market conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products or increased operating expenses or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. The Companys plans to continue to invest in research and development efforts, expedite internal product development and invest in technological alliances, as well as the expected focus and results of such investments These plans and expectations may be impacted by general market conditions, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, delays in the development of new products, technological advances, the ability to find suitable and willing technology partners or other changes in competitive or market conditions. The Companys efforts to grow its international business These efforts may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in current and anticipated foreign markets, regulatory conditions in such markets, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, changes in competitive conditions or other barriers to entry or expansion. The Companys belief as to future activities that may be undertaken to expand the Companys business, including development and sales of new products and the formation of alliances with third parties, and the effect those activities may have on the Companys financial results Actual activities undertaken and the results those activities have on the Companys financial results may be impacted by 6 Table of Contents general market conditions, competitive conditions in the Companys industry, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position, delays in new product introductions, lack of acceptance of new products or the inability to identify or negotiate acceptable terms with attractive acquisition targets or alliance partners or otherwise identify attractive business opportunities. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results include the following: Accounts Receivable. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the accounts receivable balance are denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year spot rate in accordance with FASB ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters. Inventory. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Income Taxes. At December 31, 2009, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $163,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $162,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of an impairment charge during 2009 as described below, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $331,000 as it is more likely that this asset will not be realized. The deferred tax asset related to the capital loss can be carried back three years and carried forward five years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets in not currently required. The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions under the provision of FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes, and the related liability of $27,000 as of December 31, 2009 will be adjusted as the statute of limitations expires or these positions are reassessed. Investments in Non-Marketable Equity Securities . The carrying value of financial instruments, such as cash, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value because of their short term nature. The Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. The Companys investment in non-marketable securities was comprised of shares in iTi and previously carried at cost. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $918,951, reducing the investment in iTi to $0, because iTi was unable to fund operations, acquire financing or negotiate the sale of the Company. iTi has since ceased operations and is currently in the process of liquidating its assets. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from 7 Table of Contents the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within SAB 104 and FASB ASC 605 Revenue Recognition: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices). (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The Company is not under a warranty obligation and the customer has no rotation or price protection rights. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Sales. The Companys net sales decreased 4.6% in 2009 to $15.1 million compared to net sales of $15.9 million in 2008. IKONICS Imaging realized a 14.1% sales decrease over 2008 as sales to the awards and recognition markets continued to be negatively impacted by the slow economy. Export sales were also down 7.0% in 2009 as the weaker global economy slowed shipments to Europe. Partially offsetting these sales shortfalls, Domestic sales increased 3.4% in 2009 due to increased private label film shipments. Gross Profit . Gross profit was $6.1 million, or 40.1% of sales, in 2009 and $6.6 million, or 41.8% of sales, in 2008. IKONICS Imaging gross profit percentage decreased from 48.2% in 2008 to 44.3% in 2009. The IKONICS Imaging gross profit percentage was unfavorably impacted by additional manufacturing expenses related to startup and development of new business initiatives discussed below in Future Outlook as well as higher raw material costs and lower volumes. Exports gross profit percentage in 2009 was 26.5% compared to 31.7% in 2008. Exports gross profit was unfavorably affected by higher raw material prices and an unfavorable sales mix. Domestics gross profit percentage benefited from a more favorable sales mix as it improved from 45.3% in 2008 to 47.1% in 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $4.5 million, or 30.0% of sales, in 2009 from $4.9 million or 30.8% of sales in 2008. The lower expenses level in 2009 reflects lower salaries, travel, advertising and trade show expenses. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses in 2009 were $654,000, or 4.3% of sales, versus $767,000, or 4.8% of sales in 2008. Research and development costs in 2008 reflected a $69,000 expense related to the abandonment of patent applications. During 2009, the Company abandoned $12,700 of costs related to patent applications. The Company records patent application costs as an asset and amortizes those costs upon successful completion of the application process or expenses those costs when an application is abandoned. Research and development expenses in 2009 were also favorably impacted by lower personnel expenses. 8 Table of Contents Gain on Sale of Non-Marketable Equity Securities. The Company realized a gain of $29,800 during 2009 on the sale of its investment in the common and preferred stock of Apprise Technologies, Inc. The original sale took place during 2007. The final $29,800 received in 2009 related to a portion of the original sales price that was placed in escrow at the time of the sale for indemnification obligations as part of the agreement between Apprise and its purchaser. In 2008, the Company also realized a gain of $25,000 for proceeds received from the Apprise sale. Loss on Investment in Non-Marketable Equity Securities . The Companys investment in non-marketable securities was comprised of shares in iTi, which historically had been carried at cost. An impairment analysis was conducted in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the third quarter of 2009, and the Company recorded an impairment charge of $919,000, which represents a full write-off of the Companys investment in iTi to $0. During 2008, the Companys assessment determined there were no indicators of impairment and accordingly no impairment was recorded. In making this assessment, the Company utilized iTis financial statements, forecasted sales and cash flows, backlog and other relevant information regarding iTis operations. Interest Income. The Company earned $8,000 of interest income in 2009 compared to $90,000 in 2008. The interest income decrease from the prior year is due to lower investment balances in 2009 resulting from the Companys use of cash to finance construction of its new facility and the repurchase of a portion of the Companys stock. A large portion of the interest earned is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consisted of $802,000 of fully insured certificates of deposit with maturities ranging from two to twelve months as of the end of 2009. The Companys cash is also maintained in an insured checking account that does not provide for interest. Instead, the account earns credits which offset banking fees. Income Taxes. During 2009, the Company realized income tax expense of $296,000, compared to income tax expense of $271,000 for the same period in 2008. The Company does not receive a tax benefit from the $919,000 loss on investment in non-marketable equity securities since the Company has recorded a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset resulting from the loss on the capital asset impairment charge, as it is currently more likely that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The deferred tax asset related to the capital loss can be carried back three years and carried forward five years and must be offset by a capital gain. Income tax expense in 2009 was also impacted by derecognizing a liability of $21,000 for unrecognized tax benefits relating to a tax year where the statute of limitations expired during the first quarter and the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction, research and development tax credits, and state income taxes. The 2008 income tax expense was impacted by derecognizing a liability of $44,000 for unrecognized tax benefits relating to a tax year where the statute of limitations expired during the first quarter, and the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction, tax exempt interest from auction rate securities the Company sold in 2008, and state income taxes. The effective tax rate for 2008 was also impacted by a $55,000 state refund related to research and development credits for the tax years of 2005, 2006, and 2007 which was recognized in 2008. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash was $1,305,000 and $902,000 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition to its cash, the Company also held $802,000 of short term investments as of December 31, 2009. The Company generated $1,374,000 in cash from operating activities during 2009, compared to generating $1,126,000 of cash from operating activities in 2008. Cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of the net loss adjusted for non-cash loss and gain on investments, non-cash depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During 2009, trade receivables decreased by $61,000. The decrease in receivables was driven by lower sales volumes. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventory levels decreased $39,000 due to lower raw material levels. Prepaid expenses and other assets decreased $131,000 as a result of the Company prepaying for inventory at the end of 2008 which was received in 2009. Income tax refund receivable decreased $186,000 due to the Company receiving its 2008 income tax refund and income tax payable increased $81,000. Accounts payable decreased 9 Table of Contents $178,000 due to of the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors and payments made to contractors associated with the new building. Accrued liabilities decreased $3,000. During 2009, investing activities used $847,000. The Company invested $1,002,000 in fully insured certificates on deposits with one $200,000 certificate of deposit maturing during 2009. Purchases of property and equipment were $90,000, mainly for new equipment to support the Companys new business initiatives and research activities. Also during 2009, the Company incurred $10,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process or expenses if the application is abandoned. The Company received proceeds of approximately $30,000 in 2009 on the 2007 sale of its investment in the common and preferred stock of Apprise Technologies, Inc. and $26,000 for the sale of equipment and vehicles. In 2008, investing activities used $1,004,000 in cash as the Company completed construction on its new facility at a total cost of $4.4 million, of which $120,000 was included in construction accounts payable as of December 31, 2008 and had no effect on cash flows. Partially offsetting the cash used for the new facility, the Company sold $3,550,000 of short-term investments comprised of Auction Rate Securities (ARS). At December 31, 2008, the Company had no investment in ARS. The Company also made the final $95,000 payment upon the delivery of its industrial digital inkjet machine in 2008. The Company incurred $50,000 in patent application costs during 2008 that the Company recorded as an asset and will amortize upon successful completion of the application process or expense if the applications are abandoned. The Company expensed $69,000 during 2008 due to abandonment of certain patent applications. The Company received proceeds of $25,000 in 2008 on the sale of its investment in the common and preferred stock of Apprise Technologies, Inc., and $8,500 from the sale of a vehicle. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company exercised a warrant for 7,500 shares at a price of $8.50 per share to purchase an additional $63,750 of iTi stock. The Company used $124,000 in financing activities during 2009 to repurchase 26,926 shares of its own stock. During 2008, the Company purchased 87,857 shares of its own stock at a cost of $596,000. The Company received $107,000 for the issuance of 35,872 shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options during 2008. None of the Companys stock options were exercised during 2009. Financing activities in 2008 also reflect excess tax benefits of $39,000 related to the exercise of stock options. A bank line of credit provides for borrowings of up to $1,250,000. The line of credit term runs from October 31, 2009 to October 30, 2010. The Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. Borrowings under this line of credit are collateralized by accounts receivable and inventories and bear interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during 2009 or 2008 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures In 2009, the Company made $90,000 in capital expenditures, mainly for equipment to support the Companys new business initiatives and research activities. In 2008, the Company had $4.6 million in capital expenditures, of which $120,000 was included in construction accounts payable. This spending primarily consists of land acquisition and construction costs related to the construction of a new warehouse and manufacturing facility necessary to accommodate the Companys new business initiatives and growth plans. The expansion project was completed and put into operation in 2008. The Company will continue to operate and maintain its historic facility along with the new facility. Plans for capital expenditures include ongoing manufacturing equipment upgrades, development equipment to modernize the capabilities and processes of IKONICS laboratory, research and development to improve measurement and quality control processes and vehicles. These commitments are expected to be funded 10 Table of Contents with cash generated from operating activities. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2010 of approximately $200,000. International Activity The Company markets its products in numerous countries in all regions of the world, including North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. The Companys 2009 foreign sales of $4,629,000 were approximately 30.6% of total sales, compared to the 2008 foreign sales of $4,975,000, which were 31.4% of total sales. The decrease in foreign sales in 2009 was mainly due to weaker European sales resulting from a soft global economy. The Company anticipates that its sales will increase in India and Latin America as the Company exploits opportunities in those markets. Fluctuations in certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of December 31, 2009. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2009 or 2008. Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average over 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its digital technology program. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area and expedite internal product development as well as form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. In 2009, the Company made substantial progress on its new business initiatives. Photomachining and sound deadening were in commercial operation supplying product to major electronics, defense and aerospace customers. A DTX printer was placed at a beta site in the fourth quarter of 2009; it is performing to expectations and beginning to generate sales of related consumables. The DTX program was negatively impacted by the business failure of our printer supplier, iTi. However, the Company has made arrangements with a manufacturer that the Company believes is financially strong and technically adept for future machines. In 2009, the Company produced and sold custom substrates for various inkjet applications and is currently developing, under a research contract, a proprietary film product for a major customer. The Company anticipates that all of these efforts will enhance sales and profits in 2010. In 2009, the Companys traditional domestic screen print stencil business grew and we expect that to continue in 2010. Sales to the awards and recognition market of our sandblast resist films were weak in 2009, reflecting the depressed condition of that market. This sales decline may be bottoming out, but a strong recovery is not anticipated in 2010. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. 11 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 10 to the Companys audited financial statements included in this report on form 10-K filed for information about new accounting pronouncements affecting the Company.