Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a leading hybrid cloud analytics software provider focusing on delivering Pervasive Data Intelligence to our customers, which we define as the ability to leverage 100% of a companys data to uncover real-time intelligence, at scale. We help customers integrate and simplify their analytics ecosystem, access and manage data, and use analytics to extract answers and derive business value from data. Our solutions and services comprise software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services to deliver analytics across a companys entire analytical ecosystem. Teradatas strategy is based on our mission of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. Our target market is what we call "Megadata" companies - those companies that we believe are the world's most demanding, large-scale, users of data. These Megadata companies face significant challenges including siloed data and conflicting and duplicative solutions that typically results in considerable expense to maintain and to manage the complexity. Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to the Megadata target market through a portfolio of integrated data and analytic solutions. Teradata Vantage is a highly-scalable, secure, highly-concurrent, and resilient analytics platform that addresses the challenges that Megadata companies face. By offering customers full integration of their datasets, tools, analytics languages, functions, and engines in one analytical platform, Teradata Vantage reduces customers complexity, risk, and costs. Teradata Vantage embraces leading commercial and open source technologies including our market-leading integrated data warehouse engine, and it is available in hybrid environments, on-premises or in the cloud. All subscription-based Teradata software licenses enable portability of the software license between cloud and on-premises deployment options, which can reduce risk associated with customers buying decisions. Customer buying behavior continues to shift from predominantly capital-intensive purchases to these subscription-based purchasing 24 Table of Contents options. In the near term, the movement to subscription-based transactions is negatively impacting the timing of our reported revenue and our cash flows because revenue and cash related to subscription-based transactions are recognized and received over time versus upfront as was the case with the capital purchase model. However, the transition to a subscription-based model is expected to increase our recurring revenue, which should create more predictable operating results and cash flow generation. Near term impacts, however, can fluctuate based on the pace of customer adoption, which can be difficult to predict. In the longer term, we expect our reported operating results and cash flow to normalize and increase as more customers transition to these new purchasing and deployment options. We are continuing to invest in Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical consulting and solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. Teradata has introduced additional financial and performance metrics to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives. These metrics include the following: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual contract value for all active and contractually binding term-based contracts at the end of a period. It includes maintenance, software upgrade rights, subscription-based transactions and managed services. Bookings Mix - subscription bookings divided by the sum of subscription bookings plus perpetual bookings. First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2019 : Total revenue was $ 468 million for the first quarter of 2019 , an 8% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2018 , with an underlying 10% increase in recurring revenue as the Company's business shifts to subscription-based transactions offset by a 55% decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and a 21% decrease in consulting services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 4% negative impact on total revenue for the quarter. Gross margin increased to 47.9% in the first quarter of 2019 from 44.1% in the first quarter of 2018 , primarily due to a higher recurring revenue mix as compared to the prior period. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2019 increased by 1% compared to the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to higher reorganization and restructuring costs including costs related to the movement of our corporate headquarters to San Diego, California from Dayton, Ohio. Operating loss was $5 million in the first quarter of 2019 , compared to $4 million in the first quarter of 2018 . Net loss in the first quarter of 2019 was $10 million , compared to $7 million in the first quarter of 2018. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Revenue % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Recurring $ 331 70.7 % $ 302 59.7 % Perpetual software licenses and hardware 31 6.6 % 69 13.6 % Consulting services 106 22.7 % 135 26.7 % Total revenue $ 468 100 % $ 506 100 % Total revenue was down $38 million or 8% in first quarter of 2019 and included a 4% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue grew 10% , which included a 3% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. This is driven by our movement to subscription-based transactions from perpetual software licenses and hardware transactions, which is consistent with our strategy. Under subscription models, we recognize revenue over time as opposed to the upfront recognition under the perpetual model. We expect to continue to have a significant percent of bookings be subscription-based, consistent with our overall strategy and to continue to grow recurring revenue and ARR year-over-year. Revenues from perpetual software licenses and hardware decreased 55%, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. We expect perpetual revenues to continue to decline as customers switch to our subscription-based offerings. However, some customers continue to purchase on a perpetual basis. Perpetual revenue is primarily hardware-related, as software is generally being sold on subscription. We expect that perpetual revenue will continue to decline in 2019 and will continue to be predominantly hardware-related. Consulting services revenue decreased 21% and included a 4% negative impact from foreign currency as we are realigning and focusing our consulting resources on high value, higher margin consulting engagements in our megadata target market, which is intended to increase consumption of Vantage, our software-based analytics platform. In the first quarter we made progress towards our strategy of targeting megadata companies as we continue to finalize the go-to-market realignment plans from a consulting standpoint. We expect consulting revenue to continue to decline as the Company implements this strategic change and focus. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 30, 2019, Teradata is expecting one to two percentage points of negative impact from currency translation on our 2019 full year projected revenue growth rate. Included below are financial and performance growth metrics for 2019: At the end of the first quarter of 2019, ARR was $1.319 billion, a 9% increase from the first quarter of 2018 including a 3% negative impact from foreign currency as compared to the first quarter of 2018. 72% of our bookings mix in the first quarter of 2019 was subscription-based and we continue to expect 70% or more of our 2019 full-year bookings mix to be subscription-based. 26 Table of Contents Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Recurring $ 225 68.0 % $ 212 70.2 % Perpetual software licenses and hardware 6 19.4 % 21 30.4 % Consulting services (7 ) (6.6 )% (10 ) (7.4 )% Total gross profit $ 224 47.9 % $ 223 44.1 % The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of subscription-based revenue as compared to the prior-year period. Subscription-based transactions are typically lower margin as compared to the recurring revenue from legacy maintenance and software upgrade rights, due to the higher mix of hardware. The decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenue as some customers continue to purchase their hardware upfront while buying the software on a subscription basis, which is recorded in recurring revenue. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue improved as compared to the prior-year period as the Company is taking steps to focus consulting on the top megadata analytic opportunities to drive consumption of our Vantage software analytics platform and on higher value and higher margin consulting offerings. We continue to expect a decline in overall consulting bookings and revenue compared to prior periods. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 151 32.3 % $ 152 30.0 % Research and development expenses 78 16.7 % 75 14.8 % Total operating expenses $ 229 48.9 % $ 227 44.9 % The selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decrease was driven by lower go-to-market headcount as we have realigned our sales resources around our megadata and commercial markets to align organizational capabilities with our strategy, offset by additional expenses associated with our reorganization and restructure of our operations and our go-to-market functions, including moving our corporate headquarters to San Diego, California from the prior location in Dayton, Ohio. Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased due to strategic investments in the new Teradata Vantage analytics platform and our cloud offerings. Other Expense, net In millions 2019 2018 Interest income $ 6 $ 3 Interest expense (9 ) (5 ) Other (2 ) (2 ) Other expense, net $ (5 ) $ (4 ) Other expense in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest income and expense increased primarily due to increases in interest rates. 27 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The 2019 and 2018 effective tax rate were both impacted by the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, the Company changed its indefinite reversal assertion related to its undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and no longer considers a majority of its foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. The effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2019 to be approximately 18%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2019. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 18%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 21% in the U.S. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 were as follows: 2019 2018 Effective tax rate % 12.5 % For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, no material discrete tax items were recorded. The effective tax rate in each period was impacted by recurring discrete tax items recognized in the period. Due to the impact of these recurring discrete items, there was no income tax expense on a pre-tax net loss of $10 million in the first quarter of 2019 and a $1 million tax benefit on a pre-tax net loss of $8 million in the first quarter of 2018. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2019, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata now manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APAC region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 14 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period results have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. 28 Table of Contents The following table presents segment revenue and segment gross profit for the Company for the three months ended March 31 : % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 269 57.5 % $ 264 52.2 % EMEA 113 24.1 % 149 29.4 % APAC 86 18.4 % 93 18.4 % Total segment revenue $ 468 100 % $ 506 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 157 58.4 % $ 147 55.7 % EMEA 50 44.2 % 63 42.3 % APAC 34 39.5 % 35 37.6 % Total segment gross profit $ 241 51.5 % $ 245 48.4 % Americas Revenue increased 2% , which included a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue of 10% was partially offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and decrease in consulting revenue. The increase in recurring revenue and decline in perpetual revenue were driven by the shift to subscription-based transactions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. EMEA EMEA revenue decreased 24%, which included a 5% unfavorable impact from currency fluctuations. An increase of 9% in recurring revenue was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and decrease in consulting revenue. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. APAC APAC revenue decreased 8%, which included a 5% unfavorable impact from currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue of 7% was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and decrease in consulting revenue. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. 29 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $ 135 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Teradata used approximately $29 million of cash in the first quarter of 2019 related to reorganizing and restructuring its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was also due to cash payments in the first quarter of 2019 related to 2018 variable compensation that were meaningfully higher versus similar payments made in the first quarter of 2018. We also had lower billings in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to the shift to subscription-based transactions, which changes the timing of billings versus historical renewals of maintenance and upgrade rights related to perpetual license transactions. In addition, the timing of vendor payments negatively impacted free cash flow in the first quarter. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, In millions 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 49 $ 184 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (15 ) (26 ) Additions to capitalized software (1 ) (2 ) Free cash flow $ 33 $ 156 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on the revolving credit facility and long-term debt. At March 31, 2019 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facility. The Company purchased approximately 1.2 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $47.00 in the three months ended March 31, 2019 , and 2.1 million shares at an average price per share of $37.09 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 under the two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors. The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of March 31, 2019 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $230 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. 30 Table of Contents Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax, were $33 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and $10 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $378 million as of March 31, 2019 and $364 million as of December 31, 2018 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $345 million as of March 31, 2019 and $351 million as of December 31, 2018 . Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act, the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest its earnings outside of the United States. As a result of the Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the United States and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States has moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2018 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. On June 11, 2018, Teradata replaced its existing five-year, $400 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on June 11, 2023 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. In addition, under the terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement, Teradata from time to time and subject to certain conditions may increase the lending commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement in an aggregate principal amount up to an additional $200 million, to the extent that existing or new lenders agree to provide such additional commitments. The outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon, at Teradatas option, a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus, in each case, a margin based on Teradatas leverage ratio. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured but is guaranteed by certain of Teradatas material domestic subsidiaries and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of March 31, 2019 , the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available under the Credit Facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility as of March 31, 2019 . Also, on June 11, 2018, Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $500 million five-year term loan, the proceeds of which plus additional cash-on-hand were used to pay off the remaining $525 million of principal on its existing term loan. The $500 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which will commence on June 30, 2019 with 1.25% of the initial principal amount due on each of the first eight payment dates; 2.50% of the initial principal amount due on each of the next four payment dates; 5.0% of the initial principal amount due on each of the next three payment dates; and all remaining principal due on June 11, 2023. The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of March 31, 2019, the term loan principal outstanding was $500 million. Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $3 million are being amortized over the five-year term of the loan. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the term loan as of March 31, 2019. In addition, in June 2018, Teradata executed a five-year interest rate swap with a $500 million initial notional amount in order to hedge the floating interest rate on the above-described term loan. The notional amount of the 31 Table of Contents hedge will step-down according to the amortization schedule of the term loan. As a result of the swap, Teradatas fixed rate on the term loan equals 2.86% plus the applicable leverage-based margin as defined in the Term Loan agreement. As of March 31, 2019 , the all-in fixed rate is 4.36%. Leases. In the normal course of business, the Company enters into operating and finance leases that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. Leases are described in detail in Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below provides the undiscounted cash flows for the Company's minimum lease obligations as of March 31, 2019: in millions Operating Leases Finance Leases 2019 (balance of year) $ 18 $ 20 2020 21 24 2021 15 19 2022 11 2023 7 Thereafter 7 Total minimum lease payments 79 63 Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2018 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. With the exception of the adoption of ASC 842, the significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2018 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures regarding estimates and judgments related to lease recognition. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements. 32 Table of Contents