Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Factors that May Affect Future Results below, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Certain forward-looking statements are indicated by italics or by words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, project, should, will, would, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations during the third quarter of 2012, the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and the same periods of 2011. It should be read in connection with the Companys unaudited financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the Companys audited financial statements, including related notes, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in the Companys 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors that May Affect Future Results The Companys expectation that its effective tax rate for the remainder of 2012 will be similar to 2012 first nine month effective rate of 33.6% of pretax income The effective tax rate for the final three months of 2012 may be affected by changes in federal and state tax law, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position or the Companys operating activities and/or management decisions could increase or decrease its effective tax rate. The Companys belief that the quality of its trade receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections This belief may be impacted by domestic economic conditions, by economic, political, regulatory or social conditions in foreign markets, or by the failure of the Company to properly implement or maintain internal controls. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity market conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash on hand and cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs, or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products or increased operating expenses or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. 12 Table of Contents The Companys plans to continue to invest in research and development efforts, expedite internal product development and invest in technological alliances, as well as the expected focus and results of such investments These plans and expectations may be impacted by general market conditions, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, delays in the development of new products, technological advances, the ability to find suitable and willing technology partners or other changes in competitive or market conditions. The Companys beliefs as to the future performance of its new technologies or particular segments Actual performance may be impacted by general market conditions or conditions in particular industries in which the Companys products are used (including the aerospace industry), changes to the competitive landscape in the industries in which the Company competes (including pricing pressures from existing or future competitors), lack of acceptance of new products or technologies or increases to raw materials costs used to produce the Companys products. The Companys efforts to grow its international business These efforts may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in current and anticipated foreign markets, regulatory conditions in such markets, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, changes in competitive conditions or other barriers to entry or expansion. The Companys belief as to future activities that may be undertaken to expand the Companys business and future purchases that may be made by the Companys current or potential customers Actual activities undertaken and purchases made may be impacted by general market conditions, potential sequestration of the Department of Defense budget, changes to the initiatives and business of the Companys actual or potential customers, competitive conditions in the industries in which the Company sells products, unanticipated changes in the financial position of the Company or its actual or potential customers, lack of acceptance of new products or the inability to identify attractive acquisition targets or other business opportunities. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates, which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results, include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year spot rate in accordance with guidance related to foreign currency matters. 13 Table of Contents Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions in cost when required. Income Taxes. At September 30, 2012, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $144,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $338,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of an impairment charge that occurred prior to 2011 as described below, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $323,000 as it is more likely that this asset will not be realized. The fully reserved $323,000 deferred tax asset related to the capital loss that can be carried back two years and carried forward four years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets in not currently required. The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions under the provision of FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. At September 30, 2012 and December 31, 2011 the Company had no reserves for uncertain tax positions. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within the provisions regarding revenue recognition including: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The Company is not under a warranty obligation and the customer has no rotation or price protection rights. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Quarter Ended September 30, 2012 Compared to Quarter Ended September 30, 2011 Sales. The Company realized a 3.0% sales decrease during the third quarter of 2012 with sales of $4.2 million, compared to $4.4 million in sales during the same period in 2011. Export sales for the third quarter of 2012 were down 14.1% versus the third quarter of 2012 due to weaker sales in Europe and Latin America. A 9.1% growth in IKONICS Imaging sales partially offset the Export sale shortfalls as both equipment and glass sales improved in the third quarter of 2012. Other sales were slightly down in the third quarter of 2012 while Domestic sales in the third quarter of 2012 were similar to the third quarter of 2011. 14 Table of Contents Gross Profit . Gross profit was $1.8 million, or 41.4% of sales, in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $1.7 million, or 38.5% of sales, for the same period in 2011. Gross profit was positively impacted by a more favorable sales mix as a decrease in lower margin Export sales were partially offset by an increase in higher margin IKONICS Imaging shipments. The third quarter gross margin was negatively impacted by a decrease in higher margin Micro-Machining sales which resulted in the Other gross margin decreasing from 59.1% in the 2011 period to 47.9% in the 2012 period. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.3 million, or 30.1% of sales, in the third quarter of 2012, compared to $1.3 million, or 28.8% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The slight increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2012 is due to increased personnel and depreciation expenses related to supporting the Companys DTX initiatives. Lower Domestic travel and trade show costs along with a decrease in Micro-Machining consulting expenses partially offset the DTX increases. Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the third quarter of 2012 were $141,000, or 3.3% of sales, versus $130,000, or 3.0% of sales, for the same period in 2011. Additional costs were incurred in the third quarter of 2012 for increased staffing and production trials along with higher lab supply expenses. Interest Income. The Company earned $2,600 of interest income in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $4,000 of interest income in the third quarter of 2011. The interest earned in the third quarter of 2012 and 2011 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consists of fully insured certificates of deposit with maturities ranging from seven to twelve months. Income Taxes. For the third quarter of 2012, the Company realized income tax expense of $113,000, or an effective rate of 33.1%, versus $86,000, or an effective rate of 28.5% for the third quarter of 2011. The income tax provision differs from the expected tax expense primarily due to the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and state credits for research and development. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2012 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 Sales. The Companys sales increased 1.5% during the first nine months of 2012 to $12.8 million versus sales of $12.6 million during the first nine months of 2011. Domestic realized a 6.9% sales increase for the first nine months of 2012 compared to the same period in 2011 due to both strong film and emulsion sales and IKONICS Imaging sales. The first nine months of 2012 also benefitted from improved DTX film sales and the sale of a DTX printer. The Company anticipates that in the future, DTX printer sales will be made directly by its strategic printer manufacturing partners and not the Company. Partially offsetting these increases were sales decreases in Micro-Machining due to a temporary purchasing delay at our largest aerospace customer and a non-repeating contract the Company fulfilled in 2011. Export sales were negatively affected by weaker sales to both the Middle East and Europe. Gross Profit . Gross profit for the first nine months of 2012 was $5.1 million, or 39.6% of sales, compared to $5.0 million, or 39.7% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The Other gross margin decreased from 61.0% in the 2011 period to 41.5% in the 2012 period due to a decrease in the higher margin Micro-Machining sales and the sale of a lower margin DTX printer which did not occur in 2011. The decrease in the Other gross margin was partially offset by improved gross margins for Domestic, Export and IKONICS Imaging. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $4.0 million, or 31.2% of sales, in the first nine months of 2012 compared to $3.9 million, or 30.7% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects higher expenses to support the Companys DTX initiative along with increased Export sales expenses related to the Companys efforts to expand its presence in certain international markets. Lower Domestic sales expenses along with a decrease in Micro-Machining consulting expenses partially offset these increases. 15 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the first nine months of 2012 were $470,000, or 3.7% of sales, versus $367,000, or 2.9% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The 2012 increase is partially related to a $22,000 abandonment of patent applications. The Company records patent application costs as an asset and amortizes those costs upon successful completion of the application process or expenses those costs when an application is abandoned. Additional costs were also incurred in the first nine months of 2012 for increased staffing and production trials along with higher lab supply expenses. Interest Income. The Company earned $9,400 of interest income during the first nine months of 2012 compared to $13,400 of interest income for the same period in 2011. The interest earned in first nine months of 2012 and 2011 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consists of fully insured certificates of deposit with maturities ranging from seven to twelve months. Income Taxes . During the first nine months of 2012, the Company realized an income tax expense of $207,000, or an effective rate of 33.6%, compared to income tax expense of $220,000, or an effective rate of 28.2%, for the same period in 2011. The income tax provision for the 2012 and 2011 periods differs from the expected tax expense due to the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and state credits for research and development. The 2011 income tax provision also benefitted from federal credits for research and development which has not yet been approved for the 2012 tax year. The Company expects that for the remainder of 2012, the Company will record the provision for income taxes at an effective tax rate similar to the first nine months. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash on hand was $2,249,000 and $1,490,000 at September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company generated $567,000 in cash from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2012, compared to generating $466,000 of cash from operating activities during the same period in 2011. Cash used in or provided by operating activities is primarily the result of net income adjusted for non-cash depreciation, amortization, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During the first nine months of 2012, inventories increased by $340,000 due to increased raw material purchases. The higher raw material purchases are due to the Companys efforts to take advantage of volume discounts and to protect against future price increases. The trade receivables increase of $87,000 is related to slightly slower collections. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Deposits, prepaid expenses and other assets increased $87,000, due to deposits related to sales and marketing initiatives and insurance premiums paid in advance of the third quarter of 2012. Accounts payable decreased $43,000 due to of the timing of payments. Income taxes receivable decreased $59,000 and income taxes payable increased $90,000 due to the timing of estimated 2012 tax payments compared to the calculated 2012 tax liability. Accrued expenses increased $127,000, reflecting the timing of compensation payments and accrued medical expenses. During the first nine months of 2011, trade receivables increased by $385,000. The increase in receivables was driven by higher sales volumes, especially in Export where customers typically have longer payment terms. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventories increased by $340,000 due to increased raw material purchases. The higher raw material purchases were due to the timing of a large restocking order, an increase in order quantities to take advantage of volume discounts and new raw materials necessary to support the manufacture and sale of the Companys new products. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased $30,000, reflecting prepaid insurance premiums. Accounts payable increased $248,000 due to the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors. Accrued expenses decreased $65,000, reflecting the timing of compensation payments while the impact from income taxes payable decreased cash by $11,000. 16 Table of Contents During the first nine months of 2012, investing activities used $215,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $372,000, mainly for manufacturing equipment and mandatory elevator upgrades. Also during the first nine months of 2012, the Company incurred $30,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $1,650,000 in eleven fully insured certificates of deposit during the first nine months of 2012. Nine certificates of deposit totaling $1,838,000 matured during the first nine months of 2012. During the first nine months of 2011, investing activities used $335,000. The Companys purchases of property and equipment for the year were $466,000. These purchases were mainly for equipment to upgrade the capabilities of the Companys DTX and Micromachining operations, equipment to improve product quality and capacity, mandatory elevator improvements and hardware to upgrade the Companys computer network. In addition, the Company transferred $227,000 of DTX equipment from inventory to equipment during the third quarter of 2011. This transfer does not affect cash flow from operations or investing activities for 2011 as the payment for this equipment occurred in 2010. Also during the first nine months of 2011, the Company incurred $55,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $2,240,000 in ten fully insured certificates of deposits during the first nine months of 2011. Eleven certificates of deposit totaling $2,426,000 matured during this same period in 2011. During the first nine months of 2012 the Company received $30,000 from financing activities from the issuance of 5,700 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options compared to the $70,000 the Company received from the issuance of 10,800 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options in the first nine months of 2011. The Company used $2,100 in financing activities during the first nine months of 2011 to repurchase 270 shares of its own stock. A bank line of credit exists providing for borrowings of up to $1,250,000. Outstanding debt under this line of credit is collateralized by trade receivables and inventories and bears interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during the first nine months of 2012 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of September 30, 2012. The line of credit was also not utilized during the first nine months of 2011, and there were no borrowings outstanding under this line as of September 30, 2011. The line of credit expired on October 30, 2012; however, a new $1,250,000 line of credit which expires on October 30, 2013 was established. Outstanding debt under this line of credit is collateralized by trade receivables and inventories and bears interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures Through the first nine months of 2012, the Company had $372,000 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures during the first nine months were mainly for manufacturing equipment and mandatory elevator upgrades. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2012 of approximately $575,000. Plans for capital expenditures include additional manufacturing equipment upgrades and vehicles for sales personnel. These commitments are expected to be funded with cash generated from operating activities and cash on hand. International Activity The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 32% of total sales during the first nine months of 2012 compared to 34% during the first nine months of 2011. Lower sales in the Middle East and Europe unfavorably impacted international sales volumes for the first nine months of 2012. Fluctuations of certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not 17 Table of Contents concentrated in any one region of the world and the majority of international sales are conducted in U.S. dollars. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of September 30, 2012. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2012 or 2011. Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average approximately 3%- 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its DTX and Micro-Machining programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area and expedite internal product development as well as form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company continues to make progress on its new Micro-Machining business initiative. The Company has entered into agreements with several major aerospace companies to determine the feasibility of using its unique technologies in the production of military and commercial aircraft. The Company currently has one recurring purchase order from a jet engine manufacturer, which it believes will be a long-term arrangement leading to significant sales. The Company is also negotiating a long term sales agreement with a second company and has received notification from a third that it is planning to place orders beginning in 2013. Although sequestration of the Department of Defense budget could adversely affect some of these sales, progress is being made on a number of its in-house feasibility projects, and the Company believes that several of these could lead to ongoing business. In anticipation of this business the Company is expanding its Micro-Machining manufacturing capacity. The Company is also continuing to make progress on its DTX business initiatives. In addition to its growing inkjet technology business, the Company is having a good market reception to its complementary photographic technology film aimed at smaller users. The Company is currently working with its DTX customers on training, production optimization, and product improvements. In February 2012, the Company announced a partnership and distribution agreement with Tri-D Technology to provide ExacFlat software for placing textures on 3D molds. The Company believes that, coupled with DTX, this technology provides the mold maker with the fastest, most accurate and cost effective way to apply decorative features to 3D molds. The Company has been awarded European and United States patents on its DTX technologies. . Domestically, both the Chromaline Screen Print Product and its IKONICS Imaging units remain profitable mature markets and require aggressive strategies to grow market share. Although there will be challenges, the Company believes these businesses will continue to grow and prosper. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Company does not expect that the adoption of any recent accounting pronouncements will have a material impact on its financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. 18 Table of Contents