Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Factors that May Affect Future Results below, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Certain forward-looking statements are indicated by italics. ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations during the first quarter of 2012 and for the same period of 2011. It should be read in connection with the Companys condensed unaudited financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that May Affect Future Results The Companys expectation that its effective tax rate for the remainder of 2012 will be similar to 2012 first quarter effective rate of 32.6% of pretax income (loss) The effective tax rate for the final nine months of 2012 may be affected by changes in federal and state tax law, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position or the Companys operating activities and/or management decisions could increase or decrease its effective tax rate. The Companys belief that the quality of its trade receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections This belief may be impacted by domestic economic conditions, by economic, political, regulatory or social conditions in foreign markets, or by the failure of the Company to properly implement or maintain internal controls. The Companys expectation that it will obtain a new line of credit similar to its current line of credit when the current line of credit expires on October 30, 2012 This expectation may be impacted by factors such as changes in credit markets, the interest rate environment, general economic conditions, the Companys financial results and condition, and the Companys anticipated need for capital to fund business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity market conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash on hand and cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs, or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products or increased operating expenses or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. 10 Table of Contents The Companys plans to continue to invest in research and development efforts, expedite internal product development and invest in technological alliances, as well as the expected focus and results of such investments These plans and expectations may be impacted by general market conditions, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, delays in the development of new products, technological advances, the ability to find suitable and willing technology partners or other changes in competitive or market conditions. The Companys beliefs as to the future performance of its new technologies or particular segments Actual performance may be impacted by general market conditions or conditions in particular industries in which the Companys products are used (including the aerospace industry), changes to the competitive landscape in the industries in which the Company competes (including pricing pressures from existing or future competitors), lack of acceptance of new products or technologies or increases to raw materials costs used to produce the Companys products. The Companys efforts to grow its international business These efforts may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in current and anticipated foreign markets, regulatory conditions in such markets, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, changes in competitive conditions or other barriers to entry or expansion. The Companys belief as to future activities that may be undertaken to expand the Companys business Actual activities undertaken may be impacted by general market conditions, competitive conditions in the industries in which the Company sells products, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position, lack of acceptance of new products or the inability to identify attractive acquisition targets or other business opportunities. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates, which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results, include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year spot rate in accordance with guidance related to foreign currency matters. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions in cost when required. 11 Table of Contents Income Taxes. At March 31, 2012, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $144,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $338,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of an impairment charge that occurred prior to 2011 as described below, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $323,000 as it is more likely that this asset will not be realized. The fully reserved $323,000 deferred tax asset related to the capital loss can be carried back two years and carried forward four years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets in not currently required. The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions under the provision of FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. At March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 the Company had no reserves for uncertain tax positions. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within the provisions regarding revenue recognition including: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The Company is not under a warranty obligation and the customer has no rotation or price protection rights. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Self-Funded Medical Insurance. Beginning in 2012, the Company moved from a fully insured to a self-funded medical insurance plan. The Company contracted with an administrative service company or a third party administrator to supervise and administer the program and act as the Companys fiduciary and representative. The Company has reduced its risk under this self-funded plan by purchasing both specific and aggregate stop-loss insurance coverage for individual claims and total annual claims in excess of prescribed limits. The Company records estimates for claim liabilities based on information provided by the third-party administrators, historical claims experience, the life cycle of claims, expected costs of claims incurred but not paid, and expected costs to settle unpaid claims. The Company regularly monitors its estimated insurance-related liabilities. Actual claims experience may differ from the Companys estimates. Costs related to the administration of the plan and related claims are expensed as incurred. The total liability for self-funded medical insurance was $75,000 as of March 31, 2012 and is included within other accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets. 12 Table of Contents Results of Operations Quarter Ended March 31, 2012 Compared to Quarter Ended March 31, 2011 Net Sales. The Company realized a 9.8% sales increase during the first quarter of 2012 with sales of $4.0 million compared to sales of $3.7 million for the same period in 2011. Strong sales into Asia and Latin America drove a 14.1% Export sales increase. Growth in film and emulsion sales resulted in Domestic sales increasing by 11.4% in the first quarter of 2012. The 36.1% first quarter sales increase in the Other segment is related to the sale of a DTX printer. The Company anticipates that in the future, DTX printer sales will be made directly by its strategic printer manufacturing partners and not the Company. Partially offsetting these sales increases was a 5.5% IKONICS Imaging sales decrease. The sales decrease is mainly due to a drop in first quarter glass sales. Gross Profit . Gross profit was $1.5 million, or 37.5% of sales, in first quarter of 2012 compared to $1.5 million, or 40.2% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The 2012 first quarter gross margin percentage decrease is partially due to the reduction in pricing on certain Domestic film products resulting from competitive pricing pressure. The 2012 first quarter gross margin was also negatively affected by increases in raw material costs and an increase in lower margin Export sales while higher margin IKONICS Imaging sales decreased. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.4 million, or 35.6% of sales, in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $1.3 million, or 36.8% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects higher direct selling and consulting expenses to support sales initiatives in the Companys Micromachining and DTX initiatives along with efforts in Domestic and Export. Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the first quarter of 2012 were $176,000, or 4.4% of sales, versus $100,000, or 2.7% of sales, for the same period in 2011. The increase is partially related to a $22,000 abandonment of patent applications. The Company records patent application costs as an asset and amortizes those costs upon successful completion of the application process or expenses those costs when an application is abandoned. Additional costs were also incurred in the first quarter of 2012 for increased staffing and production trials along with higher lab supply expenses. Interest Income. The Company earned $3,700 of interest income in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $4,600 of interest income in the first quarter of 2011. The interest earned in first quarter of 2012 and 2011 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consisted of $1,637,000 of fully insured certificates of deposit with maturities ranging from six to twelve months as of the end of first quarter of 2012. Income Taxes. For the first quarter of 2012, the Company realized income tax benefit of $30,000, or an effective rate of 32.6%, versus a $9,000 tax benefit for the first quarter of 2011. The Company expects that its effective tax rate for the remainder of the year will be similar to the first quarter as it recognizes benefits from the domestic manufacturing deduction, and state income taxes. During the first quarter of 2011, the Company recorded an out-of-period tax benefit adjustment of $9,000 relating to December 31, 2010 estimate for tax and a $9,000 tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash and cash equivalents were $1,990,000 and $1,867,000 at March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The Company generated $159,000 in cash for operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to using $500,000 of cash from operating activities during the same period in 2011. Cash provided by or used by operating activities is primarily the result of net income (loss) adjusted for non-cash depreciation, amortization, intangible asset abandonment and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. 13 Table of Contents During the first three months of 2012, inventories increased by $178,000 due to increased raw material purchases. The higher raw material purchases are due to the Companys efforts to take advantage of volume discounts and to protect itself against future price increases. The trade receivables increase of $38,000 is related to the increased sales volume. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Deposits, prepaid expenses and other assets increased $71,000, reflecting insurance premiums paid in advance in the first quarter of 2012. Accounts payable increased $277,000 due to of the timing of payments to vendors and the increase in raw material purchases. Accrued expenses increased $111,000, reflecting the timing of insurance and compensation payments while income taxes receivable increased $35,000. During the first quarter of 2012, investing activities used $40,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $230,000, mainly for manufacturing equipment and mandatory elevator upgrades. Also during the first quarter of 2012, the Company incurred $8,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $411,000 in two fully insured certificates of deposit during the first quarter of 2012. Three certificates of deposit totaling $609,000 matured during the first three months of 2012. During the first quarter of 2011, investing activities used $95,000. The Companys purchases of property and equipment for the quarter were $67,000, mainly for hardware upgrades to the Companys computer network and equipment purchases. Also during the first quarter of 2011, the Company incurred $24,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company invested $813,000 in fully insured certificates of deposits with four certificates of deposit totaling $809,000 maturing during the first three months of 2011. During the first three months of 2012 the Company received $4,000 from financing activities from the issuance of 750 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options compared to the $56,000 the Company received from the issuance of 8,000 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options in the first quarter of 2011. A bank line of credit exists providing for borrowings of up to $1,250,000 expires on October 30, 2012 if not renewed. The Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. The line of credit is collateralized by trade receivables and inventories and bears interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during the first three months of 2012 or 2011 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2012 and 2011. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures Through the first three months of 2012, the Company had $230,000 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures during the first three months were manufacturing equipment and mandatory elevator upgrades. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2012 of approximately $550,000. Plans for capital expenditures include additional manufacturing equipment upgrades and vehicles for sales personnel. These commitments are expected to be funded with cash generated from operating activities. International Activity The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 34% of total sales during the first three months of 2012 compared to 33% of sales in the first quarter of 2011. Higher sales volumes in Asia and Latin America 14 Table of Contents positively impacted 2012 first quarter sales volumes. Fluctuations of certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of March 31, 2012. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2012 or 2011. Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average approximately 3%- 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its DTX and Micro-Machining programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area and expedite internal product development as well as form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company continues to make progress on its new Micro-Machining business initiative. The Company has entered into agreements with several major aerospace companies to determine the feasibility of using its unique technologies in the production of military and commercial aircraft and currently has a dozen projects in-house. These projects range from initial feasibility to the manufacture of prototypes to being qualified and specified for production. Although the Company has yet to realize major orders from these agreements, the Company anticipates that some of these new projects will lead to long-term contracts, and the Company is taking steps to expand its production capability to accommodate an anticipated increase in its business with the aerospace industry. Although the sales cycle with customers in the aerospace industry is long, once specified as a process or component, the life of the business can be very long term. The recognition by the industry of the Companys unique ability to machine composite materials is coinciding with increasing demand for composite materials by the aerospace industry. The Company is also continuing to make progress on its DTX business initiatives. In addition to the DTX printer sold by the Company in January 2012, the Companys strategic printer manufacturers have also shipped two printers. The Company is currently working with its DTX customers on training, production optimization, and product improvements. In February 2012, the Company announced a partnership and distribution agreement with Tri-D Technology to provide ExacFlat software for placing textures on 3D molds. The Company believes, that coupled with DTX, this technology provides the mold maker with the fastest, most accurate and cost effective way to apply decorative features to 3D molds. The Company was also awarded a European patent on its DTX technology in 2010 and a U. S. patent in 2012. Additional U. S. and European patent applications, as well as a Japanese patent application, are currently being examined by the respective patent offices. Domestically, both the Chromaline Screen Print Product and its IKONICS Imaging units remain profitable mature markets and require aggressive strategies to grow market share. Although there will be challenges, the Company believes these businesses will continue to grow and prosper. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Company does not expect that the adoption of any recent accounting pronouncements will have a material impact on its financial statements. 15 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements.