Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to our future plans, objectives and results and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial results and the effectiveness of the Companys responses to the pandemic. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed elsewhere in this report and under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, as updated in our subsequent reports filed with the SEC, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations during the first quarter of 2020 and 2019. It should be read in connection with the Companys condensed unaudited financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q. Potential Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic The Company is closely monitoring the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its potential impact on its business. The outbreak and continuing spread of COVID-19 has resulted in a substantial curtailment of business activities worldwide and is causing weakened economic conditions, both nationally and globally. As part of intensifying efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, a growing number of state, local and foreign governments have imposed various restrictions on the conduct of business and travel. Government restrictions, such as stay-at-home orders and quarantines and company remote work policies have led to a significant number of business closures and slowdowns. These business closures and slowdowns have already adversely impacted and will likely continue to adversely impact the Company directly, as well as cause its customers and suppliers to slow or stop production, which will likely significantly disrupt the Company's sales, production and supply chain. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company began to experience decreased demand for its products and services during the three months ended March 31, 2020. The Company anticipates a significant decrease in global demand for its products and services during second quarter of 2020 and beyond. This significant decrease in demand will likely have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition beginning with the second quarter of 2020. The Company has been deemed an essential operation. As a result, the Companys facilities continue to operate and are doing so safely, having implemented social distancing and enhanced health, safety and sanitization measures. The Company's leadership continues to address the rapidly evolving situation and is adjusting as necessary. The Company has also implemented necessary procedures to enable a significant portion of its employee base to work remotely. As the situation evolves into a more prolonged pandemic, the Company expects the COVID-19 pandemic to have a significant adverse effect on economies and financial markets globally, potentially leading to a significant worldwide economic downturn, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. However, the duration of these trends and the magnitude of such impacts cannot be precisely estimated at this time, as they are affected by a number of factors (some of which are outside managements control), including those presented in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors below. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates, which the Company believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results, include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past especially given the unpredictability of any effects related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year-end spot rate in accordance with FASB ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters . The Company also maintains a provision for any customer related returns based upon historical experience of actual returns and any specifically identified product issues, refunds or credits. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Income Taxes. D eferred taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as long-term on a net basis. The Company follows the accounting standard on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under this guidance, the Company may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes also addresses derecognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, and accounting in interim periods. Revenue recognition . Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in the contract with a customer, adjusted for any applicable estimates of variable consideration and other factors affecting the transaction price, including noncash consideration, consideration paid or payable to customers and significant financing components. While most of the Companys revenue is contracted with customers through one-time purchase orders and short-term contracts, the Company does have long-term arrangements with certain customers. Revenue from all customers is recognized when a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of a distinct good or service to a customer. Individually promised goods and services in a contract are considered a distinct performance obligation and accounted for separately if the customer can benefit from the individual good or service on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer and the good or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the arrangement. When an arrangement includes multiple performance obligations, the consideration is allocated between the performance obligations in proportion to their estimated standalone selling price. Costs related to products delivered are recognized in the period incurred, unless criteria for capitalization of costs are met. Costs of revenues consist primarily of direct labor, manufacturing overhead, materials and components. The Company does not incur significant upfront costs to obtain a contract. If costs to obtain a contract were to become material, the costs would be recorded as an asset and amortized to expense in a manner consistent with the related recognition of revenue. 11 Table of Contents The Company excludes governmental assessed and imposed taxes on revenue transactions that are invoiced to customers from revenue. The Company includes freight billed to customers in revenue. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in accounts receivable on the balance sheet. Performance obligations . A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. A contracts transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation in proportion to its standalone selling price and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. The Companys various performance obligations and the timing or method of revenue recognition are discussed below: The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Each unit of product delivered under a customer order represents a distinct and separate performance obligation as the customer can benefit from each unit on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer and each unit of product is separately identifiable from other products in the arrangement. The transaction price for the Companys products is the invoiced amount. The Company does not have variable consideration in the form of refunds, credits, rebates, price concessions, pricing incentives or other items impacting transaction price. The purchase order pricing in arrangements with customers is deemed to approximate standalone selling price; therefore, the Company does not need to allocate proceeds on a relative standalone selling price allocation between performance obligations. The Company applies the practical expedient in FASB ASC 606-10-50-14 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less. There are no material obligations that extend beyond one year. Revenue is recognized when transfer of control occurs as defined by the terms in the customer agreement. The Company immediately recognizes incidental items that are immaterial in the context of the contract. The Company has also applied the practical expedient in FASB ASC 606-10-32-18 regarding the adjustment of the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component when the customer pays for that good or service within one year or less, as the Company does not have any significant financing components in its customer arrangements as payment is received at or shortly after the point of sale, generally thirty to ninety days. The Company estimates returns based on an analysis of historical experience if the right to return products is granted to its customers. The Company does not record a return asset as non-conforming products are generally not returned. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The customer has no rotation or price protection rights. The Company is not under a warranty obligation except as described below. Sales commissions. Sales commissions paid to sales representatives are eligible for capitalization as they are incremental costs that would not have been incurred without entering into a specific sales arrangement and are recoverable through the expected margin on the transaction. The Company has elected to apply the practical expedient provided by FASB ASC 340-40-25-4 and recognize the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred, as the amortization period of the assets that would have otherwise been recognized is one year or less. The Company records these costs in selling, general, and administrative expense. Product warranty. The Company offers warranties on various products and services. These warranties are assurance type warranties that are not sold on a standalone basis; therefore, they are not considered distinct performance obligations. The Company estimates the costs that may be incurred under its warranties and records a liability in the amount of such costs at the time the revenue is recognized for the product sale. International revenue. The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 31% of total sales during the first three months of 2020 and 26% during the first three months of 2019. Results of Operations Quarter Ended March 31, 2020 Compared to Quarter Ended March 31, 2019 Sales. The Companys 2020 first quarter sales of $3.5 million were $31,000, or 0.9%, lower than the 2019 first quarter sales of $3.5 million. IKONICS Imaging 2020 first quarter sales of $970,000 decreased by 10.9% from first quarter 2019 sales of $1.1 million. The IKONICS Imaging 2020 first quarter sales decrease is due to a COVID-19 related slowdown in domestic sales towards the end of the first quarter of 2020. Chromaline sales for the first quarter of 2020 also decreased versus the first quarter due to COVID-19 related issues as 2020 Chromaline first quarter sales of $2.0 million were $65,000 lower than 2019 first quarter sales. Partially offsetting these sales decreases, 2020 first quarter AMS sales increased from $318,000 in the first quarter of 2019 to $450,000, a $132,000 increase, due to higher sales to AMS' largest customers. The Company was notified by AMS' largest customer that it will reduce order volume beginning in the second quarter of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. DTX sales also increased in the first quarter from $93,000 in 2019 to $113,000 in 2020. IKONICS anticipates that the COVID-19 outbreak will continue to adversely impact sales in the second quarter of 2020 and beyond due to decreasing demand for its products and services. 12 Table of Contents Gross Profit . Gross profit was $1.2 million, or 33.0% of sales, in the first quarter of 2020 compared to $1.0 million, or 28.6% of sales, for the same period in 2019. The Chromaline gross margin increased from 23.4% in the first quarter of 2019 to 27.8% for the first quarter of 2020 while the IKONICS Imaging gross margin increased from 46.2% in the first quarter of 2019 to 50.8% in the first quarter of 2020. Both the Chromaline and IKONICS Imaging gross margins in 2019 were unfavorably impacted by production issues caused by raw material shortages related to cold weather shipping issues. Additionally, the Chromaline 2019 gross margin was negatively impacted by a $60,000 credit related to cold weather product damage and a less favorable sales mix. An increase in sales volumes resulted in the AMS 2020 first quarter gross margin increasing to 12.0% from a negative 9.0% in 2019. The 2020 and 2019 DTX gross margins were 54.0% and 63.3%, respectively as the 2020 DTX gross margin decreased due to increase in material waste costs. IKONICS anticipates that the COVID-19 outbreak will adversely impact gross margins in the second quarter of 2020 and beyond as sales volumes decrease. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.8 million, or 50.9% of sales, in the first quarter of 2020 compared to $1.4 million, or 39.2% of sales, for the same period in 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2020 increased primarily due to $365,000 of one-time costs related to the Chief Executive Officer transition which occurred in the first quarter of 2020. These costs include severance payments, a signing bonus, relocation expenses and executive search consulting expenses. Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the first quarter of 2020 were $184,000, or 5.2% of sales, versus $179,000, or 5.1%, of sales for the same period in 2019. The 2020 first quarter increase is due to additional research and development costs related to DTX product development projects. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the first quarter of 2020 and 2019 was $21,000 and $22,000, respectively. Income Taxes. For the first quarter of 2020, the Company realized an income tax benefit of $239,000, or an effective tax rate of 28.9%, compared to a benefit of $103,000, or an effective tax rate of 18.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The primary driver of the change in the Companys effective tax rate is attributable to a tax benefit in the current period to recognize a net operating loss carryback claim as a result from the recently passed CARES Act. The income tax provision for 2019 differs from the expected tax benefit due to unfavorable non-deductible items and generation of research and development tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outside of the building expansion, for which $3.4 million in financing was obtained during 2016, the Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. 13 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents were $1.6 million and $960,000 at March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Operating activities used $427,000 in cash during the first three months of 2020 compared to using $618,000 of cash during the same period in 2019. Cash used in operating activities is primarily the result of net losses adjusted for non-cash depreciation, amortization, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During the first three months of 2020, trade receivables decreased $675,000. This decrease was due primarily to a slowdown in sales of products and services during the latter part of the 2020 first quarter, as a result of the aforementioned COVID-19 pandemic. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventories increased by $408,000 due to higher finished goods levels as the Company experienced lower than expected sales towards the end of the first quarter of 2020. Prepaid expenses and other assets decreased by $578,000 reflecting a decrease in a receivable related to the reimbursement of 2019 medical insurance costs that the Company received from its stop-loss insurance carrier. Accrued expenses decreased $621,000, reflecting a decrease in the accrual for health insurance costs. Accounts payable increased by $2,000 due to the timing of vendor payments. Income taxes receivable increased by $244,000 as the Company recognized an income tax benefit attributable to a net operating loss carryback claim. During the first three months of 2019, trade receivables decreased $394,000 from lower sales. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventories increased by $794,000 due to higher finished goods and raw material levels as the Company was ramping up inventory levels to meet demand for the remainder of 2019 in addition to lower than expected first quarter sales. Prepaid expenses and other assets decreased by $116,000, reflecting a decrease in a receivable related to the reimbursement of 2018 medical insurance costs that the Company received from its stop-loss insurance carrier. Accounts payable increased by $213,000 due to the timing of vendor payments. Accrued expenses decreased by $147,000, reflecting the timing of compensation payments while income taxes receivable increased by $111,000 due to the recognition of the 2019 first quarter tax benefit. During the first three months of 2020, cash provided by investing activities was $1.1 million. Five certificates of deposits totaling $1.2 million matured during the first three months of 2020. The Companys purchases of equipment of $135,000 were mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace a vehicle. The Company received $18,000 in proceeds from the sale of a vehicle. Also, during the first three months of 2020, the Company incurred $3,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. During the first three months of 2019, cash used in investing activities was $352,000. Six certificates of deposits totaling $1.5 million matured during the first three months of 2019. The Company purchased seven certificates of deposits totaling $1.7 million. The Companys purchases of property and equipment of $117,000 were mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace two vehicles. The Company received $12,000 in proceeds from the sale of two vehicles. Also, during the first three months of 2019, the Company incurred $3,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. On April 1, 2016, the Company entered into a financing agreement (the Financing Agreement) under which the Duluth Economic Development Authority (the Issuer) agreed to sell $3,415,000 of its Tax Exempt Industrial Revenue Bonds, Series 2016 (IKONICS Project) (the Bonds) to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the Bank), and the Bank agreed to lend to the Company the proceeds received from the sale of the Bonds (the Loan). Related to the Companys Loan, the Company made principal payments of $36,000 during the first three months of 2020 and $35,000 during the first three months of 2019. The Company is subject to certain customary covenants set forth in the Loan, including a requirement that the Company maintain a debt service coverage ratio as of the end of each calendar quarter of not less than 1.25 to 1.00 on a rolling four-quarter basis. As of December 31, 2019, the Company was not in compliance with the debt service coverage ratio covenant, but obtained a waiver for the non-compliance. There is no certainty that a waiver can be obtained in the future if similar violations occur. The Company amended the covenant terms in February of 2020 to change the debt service coverage ratio calculation from a rolling quarterly calculation to an annual calculation beginning December 31, 2020. If the Company has future violations of its covenants, and is unable to obtain appropriate waivers, it could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's liquidity. A bank line of credit providing for borrowings of up to $2,050,000 expires August 30, 2021. The line of credit is collateralized by the Companys assets and bears interest at 1.8 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during the first three months of 2020 or 2019, and there were no borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit. The Company anticipates a significant decrease in global demand for its products and services during second quarter of 2020 and beyond due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This significant decrease in demand will likely have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, operating results and financial condition beginning with second quarter of 2020. It is currently not possible to predict the future potential impact, or the extent of any impact, of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Companys business, and on the global economy as a whole. It is also currently not possible to predict how long the COVID-19 pandemic will last or the time that it will take for economic activity to return to prior levels. The Company believes that its strong working capital position (including cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $2.6 million) along with the Company's $2.0 million available line of credit as of March 31, 2020 and the recently secured $1.2 million loan through the Small Business Administration (SBA) can help mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the future financial impact on its operations or working capital position given the recent downturn in business due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Capital Expenditures Through the first three months of 2020, the Company incurred $135,000 of capital expenditures mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities and to replace a vehicle. The Company was planning additional capital expenditures in 2020 of approximately $204,000 including improvements to the Company's production capabilities, process improvements, information technology upgrades and two replacement vehicles. With the recent downturn in business related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company anticipates that additional capital expenditures in 2020 will be significantly less than $204,000. Currently, the Company expects to fund its capital expenditures with existing cash and cash generated from operating activities. 14 Table of Contents International Activity The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 31% of total sales during the first three months of 2020 and 26% during the first three months of 2019. International sales during the first quarter of 2020 increased in certain Asian markets and in Europe. The fluctuations of certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations, as the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world, although a strong U.S. dollar does make the Companys products less competitive internationally. The Company believes its vulnerability due to uncertainties in foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. The Company has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation or transaction exposures, as management does not believe this to be a significant risk based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2020 or 2019. Future Outlook See the discussion under the heading Potential Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic above for the Companys discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic. IKONICS has spent an average of approximately 5.0% of annual sales in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to new products and programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in these areas to expedite internal product development as well as to form technological alliances with outside entities to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company is also continuing to pursue DTX-related business initiatives. In addition to making efforts towards growing the inkjet technology business, the Company offers a range of products for creating texture surfaces and has introduced a fluid for use in prototyping. The Company is currently working on production improvements as part of its joint development agreement with AKK, a German manufacturer of high quality printers, to enhance its customer offerings. The Company has been awarded European, Japanese, and United States patents on its DTX technologies. The Company has also modified its DTX technology to facilitate entry into the market for prototyping. The Company continues to make progress on its AMS business. The Company has three long-term sales agreements in place for its technology with major aerospace companies. However, the Company was notified by AMS' largest customer that it will reduce order volume beginning in the second quarter of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Both the Chromaline and IKONICS Imaging units remain profitable in mature markets. Although these business units require aggressive strategies to grow market share, both are developing new products and business relationships that the Company believes will contribute to growth. Early in 2019, the Company introduced its new IKONART product to positive reviews and is generating sales. IKONART provides a new way to make custom reusable stencils for the creative arts markets. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. However, the strong U.S. dollar has made international growth challenging. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include strategic partnerships, acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. 15 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which revises guidance for the accounting for credit losses on financial instruments within its scope, and in November 2018, issued ASU No. 2018-19 and in April 2019, issued ASU No. 2019-04 and in May 2019, issued ASU No. 2019-05, and in November 2019, issued ASU No. 2019-11, which amended the standard. The new standard introduces an approach, based on expected losses, to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments and modifies the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities. The new approach to estimating credit losses (referred to as the current expected credit losses model) applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities, net investments in leases and off-balance-sheet credit exposures. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. Entities are required to apply the standards provisions as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is adopted. The Company is still evaluating the impact of this ASU. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements.