Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Second Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the second quarter of 2016 : Total revenue was $599 million for the second quarter of 2016 , down 4% from the second quarter of 2015 , with an underlying 11% decrease in product revenue and a 1% increase in services revenue. Gross margin decreased to 51.8% in the second quarter of 2016 from 52.5% in the second quarter of 2015 , driven by lower product gross margin. Operating income was $87 million in the second quarter of 2016 , compared to operating loss of $(262) million in the second quarter of 2015 , driven by an impairment loss on goodwill in the second quarter of 2015. Net income in the second quarter of 2016 was $64 million , compared to net loss of $265 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Strategic Overview Teradatas strategy is based around a core belief: that analytics and data unleash the potential of great companies. We empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes through scalable analytics on an agile data foundation. Through our business-outcome focus and consultative approach, our goal is to serve as a trusted advisor to both the business and technical leaders in our customers organizations. Our business and analytical solutions are ideally suited for the worlds largest companies, as they have the most complex analytics requirements and the need to scale. Here, we can provide unique capabilities to solve a broad range of business problems, and this is where our value proposition is most compelling. Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to this target market through three key modes of customer engagement: business solutions, analytical architecture expertise, and technology solutions. Business Solutions: that deliver high-value business outcomes realized by engaging with business users through solution-based selling that leverages analytic consulting and repeatable analytical IP Analytical Architecture Expertise: best-in-class architecture consulting to help customers build an optimized analytical ecosystem independent of technology, leveraging both open source and commercial solutions Technology Solutions: best-of-breed technology and services to deliver an analytical ecosystem deployed in a hybrid cloud architecture. Our technology solutions will build upon our market-leading data warehouse database. Our strategy builds on our world-class data warehouse heritage and positions Teradata as an analytics company that delivers high-value business outcomes at scale. We deliver our solutions on-premises via the cloud and "as a service", offering customers choice in how they deploy a Teradata analytics environment and leverage the power of our solutions. These flexible delivery options are designed to extend our market opportunity. 18 Table of Contents In support of our strategy, we will optimize our go-to-market and sales approach to improve effectiveness in demand creation and address new and expanded market opportunities, such as with our consultative business solutions and cloud offerings. We will continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage. We believe that our more consultative, solution-selling approach and modes of customer engagement that support customers choice in procuring and deploying analytics will best position us to be our customers trusted advisor and partner of choice for architecting, implementing, and managing their analytic solutions. Future Trends We believe that future demand for our analytic data platforms will increase due to high levels of data growth being driven by new types of data, such as big data and the internet of things, including: machine-generated data, sensor data, data from connected devices, social network data, internet text and search indexing, call detail records, genomics, biological research, medical records, seismic/exploration data, photography and video archives, and large scale e-commerce data. Analytic environments are becoming more complex to design and manage as there are increasing types of analytic tools and techniques, multiple data management systems both on-premises and in the cloud, varying service level requirements, and the growth and volume of data. This complexity drives the need for an overall architecture to manage such environments. Demand for value-added services is growing as customers seek help with evolving their analytic architectures, rapidly deploying their analytic architectural solutions, and increasingly look to purchase analytic capabilities as a service". Overall, analytics are growing in importance as global businesses seek new means to drive business value from the ever-increasing amounts and types of data, and, as a result, we expect Teradatas leadership position and investments in our strategic areas of focus to position us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. We have seen a shift in the market and in customers buying patterns with respect to large capital investments and related services. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenges for future revenue growth relate to pressures on large capital expenditures and the way customers want to purchase and deploy analytic technologies. We believe that a number of factors have contributed to the pressures on large capital expenditures and the resulting slowdown in our revenue growth, including: the evolving information technology market, as customers focus investments in their analytical ecosystems on products which have lower average selling prices than traditional on-premises integrated data warehouse ("IDW") environments, and changing customer behavior as buying decisions are shifting from IT to business users. Overall, we believe that the IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems (through growth in IDW, Teradata private and public cloud, Teradata big data analytics, our business and analytical solutions, and our value-added services) as well as the addition of new customers. Teradata has expanded our offerings as well as our pricing options to make it easier and to provide more flexibility for customers to buy and expand with Teradata including cloud offerings and subscription pricing. There is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could increase in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top focus and lower-cost alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas offerings. As the market continues to evolve, we could be challenged to generate revenue growth shorter term as customers purchase in 19 Table of Contents smaller deal sizes, and some of our customers shift from upfront perpetual licenses to recurring subscription models for both on-premises and cloud offerings. As described below, we are also transforming our go-to-market approach to better position Teradata with both business buyers and IT buyers, and increase wallet share with our existing customers as well as add more customers. To meet this challenge, we will focus on execution and monitoring our progress with respect to this evolution, as well as working to infuse talent into our organization with key skill sets to support our strategy. We continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and longer term will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In addition, we will continue to optimize our go-to-market structure and manage our cost structure as we work to broaden our product and services portfolios and market penetration. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of July 29, 2016, Teradata is expecting less than one point of negative impact from currency translation on our full year projected revenue growth rate. Business Transformation During 2015, the Company announced a plan to realign Teradata's business by reducing its cost structure and focusing on the Company's core data and analytics business. In addition to exiting the marketing applications business, this plan is intended to lead to a comprehensive transformation of the Company that will place it on a trajectory of meaningful revenue growth, by building on our strengths in high performance data analytics and consulting services, advancing our technology leadership positions, and expanding our market opportunities. This transformation plan addresses the challenges of the analytical ecosystem, cloud, software-only, and open source. It also addresses customers changing behaviors in how they buy, consume, and deploy analytic solutions. To empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes, we will be providing differentiated offerings to the market through three key modes of customer engagement: Business Solutions, Analytical Architecture Expertise, and Technology Solutions. Our Business Solutions and Analytical Architecture Expertise are expected to pull through our Technology Solutions. Our core database technology remains a key element of our strategy, and we will continue to deliver our best-in-class data analytics at scale. In addition, our broad-reaching transformation is intended to drive change across our Company, including in the following key areas: Cloud - We plan to continue to expand our data warehouse offerings in the public cloud and in Teradatas managed cloud environments. We released our initial software-only version of Teradata on a public cloud during the first quarter of 2016, and we plan to make our fully scalable version of Teradata available on public clouds later in 2016. We are building new services for cloud migration as well as for design, implementation and management of cloud and hybrid cloud environments. On premises data warehouse - We are in process of making it easier to buy, expand, and seamlessly upgrade data warehouses - through pricing options, software-only, and Teradata Labs innovation. We expect that our recently announced Intelliflex platform architecture will provide more flexible configurations and seamless expansions of our customers IDW environments, and our software-only version of Teradata will also allow us to expand with both new and existing customers. Analytical ecosystem - We intend to add to our software and service offerings that focus on enabling customers to easily load and integrate data and to manage their analytical ecosystem through products such as Unity, QueryGrid, and Listener. These offerings help connect and manage the ecosystem including not only Teradata IDW environments, but also with Aster and open source alternatives to help manage and extract value from the data. Additionally, the analytical ecosystem portfolio will become a foundation to enable hybrid cloud use cases. 20 Table of Contents We expect the mix of our revenues to shift toward cloud, analytical ecosystem, and analytic consulting services over time, as these are faster growing markets. We believe this shift also will help increase our recurring revenue. Another element that is critical to Teradata's successful transformation plan is modifying our go-to-market efforts to a more consultative approach to better address the increasing relevance of business buyers and to help customers build analytical ecosystems that include our own technologies as well as open source and other commercial solutions. We have actions underway to adjust our go-to-market efforts to address these new approaches and align to the way customers want to buy. The Company has reviewed and rationalized our expense structure and is now moving from a cost reduction initiative to a cost management approach as it invests for Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. On July 1, 2016, Teradata completed the sale of our Marketing Applications business to exclusively focus on our data and analytics business, in support of our transformation plans. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 Revenue % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product revenue $ 228 38.1 % $ 256 41.1 % Service revenue 371 61.9 % 367 58.9 % Total revenue $ 599 100 % $ 623 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $24 million or 4% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 1% adverse impact on revenue in the second quarter. Product revenue decreased 11% in the second quarter of 2016 from the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in large capital expenditure transactions, predominantly in the United States. As discussed under the future trends section of this MD&A, our revenue has been impacted by our customers focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. Many customers have delayed or reduced on-premises purchases to evaluate these other options. This shift is being addressed by our business transformation strategy and could impact our quarterly revenue comparisons as some revenue we would normally recognize in a given quarter may now be spread over a number of periods. Services revenue increased 1% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 3% increase in maintenance revenue from the prior period, partially offset by a 1% decrease in consulting revenue. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 139 61.0 % $ 163 63.7 % Service gross margin 171 46.1 % 164 44.7 % Total gross margin $ 310 51.8 % $ 327 52.5 % The product gross margin decrease was driven by deal and product mix. The services gross margin increase was primarily driven by lower cost of parts for maintenance services and improved utilization in consulting services. The prior period was also impacted by investments in our marketing applications business, which resulted in lower margins in the prior period. 21 Table of Contents Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 172 28.7 % $ 190 30.5 % Research and development expenses 51 8.5 % 59 9.5 % Impairment of goodwill % 340 54.6 % Total operating expenses $ 223 37.2 % $ 589 94.5 % The decrease in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense of $18 million was primarily due to cost reduction initiatives, offset by increase in Marketing Applications business divestiture expenses and annual incentive payment accruals. Research and Development ("R&D") expenses decreased $8 million due to cost reduction initiatives and higher software capitalization of $3 million. No impairment charges were recorded in the second quarter of 2016. The Company recorded a $340 million impairment for goodwill during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. Other (Expense) Income, net In millions 2016 2015 Gain on securities $ $ 15 Interest income 2 1 Interest expense (4 ) (2 ) Other (1 ) Other (expense) income, net $ (2 ) $ 13 Other expense in the second quarter of 2016 arose primarily from $4 million in interest expense on long-term debt. Other income in the second quarter of 2015 arose primarily from a $15 million gain on the sale of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the United States and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2016 to be approximately 36%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2016 and the discrete tax impact to our effective rate resulting from the $57 million non-deductible goodwill impairment, which resulted in no tax benefit. This estimate also includes the estimated $18 million discrete tax impact that will occur in the third quarter as a result of the sale of the Marketing Applications business. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 13%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the United States. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Effective tax rate 24.7 % (6.4 )% There were no material discrete tax items for the three months ended June 30, 2016. For the three months ended June 30, 2015, the effective tax rate includes a discrete tax impact resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment, of which $318 million is related to non-deductible goodwill. The difference in the effective tax rate 22 Table of Contents period over period was primarily driven by the discrete tax impact from the non-deductible goodwill impairment recorded in the second quarter of 2015. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2016, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which it now manages the Company's business under two geographic regions and the marketing applications division (prior to its completed sale on July 1, 2016); which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas Data and Analytics (North America and Latin America); (2) International Data and Analytics (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan); and (3) Marketing Applications. For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Going forward, following the sale of the marketing applications business, Teradata will manage its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended June 30 : % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 325 54.3 % $ 348 56.0 % International Data and Analytics 239 39.9 % 237 38.0 % Total Data and Analytics 564 94.2 % 585 93.9 % Marketing Applications 35 5.8 % 38 6.1 % Total segment revenue $ 599 100 % $ 623 100 % Segment gross margin Americas Data and Analytics $ 183 56.3 % $ 204 58.6 % International Data and Analytics 116 48.5 % 118 49.8 % Total Data and Analytics 299 53.0 % 322 55.0 % Marketing Applications 16 45.7 % 16 42.1 % Total segment gross margin $ 315 52.6 % $ 338 54.3 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 7% in the second quarter of 2016 from the second quarter of 2015 , which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue decline was driven by a decline in large capital expenditure transaction revenue in the second quarter of 2016 as compared to second quarter of 2015. Segment gross margins were down from second quarter of 2015 driven by decrease in product gross margin. The decline in the product gross margin was driven by deal and product mix. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 1% in the second quarter of 2016 from the second quarter of 2015 , which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in the Asia Pacific region in the second quarter of 2016 as compared to second quarter of 2015. Segment gross margins were down from second quarter of 2015 driven by a decrease in product gross margin. The decline in the product gross margin was driven by deal and product mix. Service margins were flat as compared to the second quarter of 2015. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 8% in the second quarter of 2016 from the second quarter of 2015 . The revenue decrease included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The decline in 23 Table of Contents revenue was driven by lower recurring revenues in the second quarter of 2016 as compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The overall segment gross margin increase is primarily driven by higher product and professional services margins. In the second quarter of 2015 the Company made investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market, which resulted in lower service margins in 2015. Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 Revenue % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product revenue $ 422 36.9 % $ 497 41.2 % Service revenue 722 63.1 % 708 58.8 % Total revenue $ 1,144 100 % $ 1,205 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $61 million or 5% during the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 1% adverse impact on revenue in the first six months. Product revenue decreased 15% in the first six months of 2016 from the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in large capital expenditure transactions, primarily in the U.S. As discussed under the future trends section of this MD&A, our revenue has been impacted by our customers focus on less capital intensive options like cloud, subscription, rental and usage-based models. Many customers have delayed or reduced on-premises purchases to evaluate these other options. This shift is being addressed by our business transformation strategy and could impact our year-over-year revenue comparisons as some revenue we would normally recognize in a given period may now be spread over a number of periods. Services revenue increased 2% in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 3% increase in maintenance revenue from the prior period. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 255 60.4 % $ 295 59.4 % Service gross margin 324 44.9 % 309 43.6 % Total gross margin $ 579 50.6 % $ 604 50.1 % The product gross margin increase as a percent of revenue was driven by deal and product mix. The services gross margin increase was primarily driven by improved utilization of our professional service associates in the international region and lower cost of parts for maintenance services. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 346 30.2 % $ 374 31.0 % Research and development expenses 108 9.5 % 122 10.1 % Impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets 80 7.0 % 340 28.2 % Total operating expenses $ 534 46.7 % $ 836 69.4 % The decrease in SG&A expense of $28 million was primarily due to cost reduction initiatives, offset by an increase in Marketing Applications business divestiture expenses and annual incentive payment accruals. R&D expenses decreased $14 million due to cost reduction initiatives and $6 million of software capitalization. 24 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2016, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with TMA Solutions, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership and affiliate of Marlin Equity Partners (Marlin Equity) to sell the marketing applications business for $90 million in cash, subject to a post-closing adjustment for working capital, debt and other metrics, which is currently estimated at $92 million. The Company performed a goodwill impairment analysis on the business to be disposed of based on the fair value as determined using the Asset Purchase Agreement. As a result of this analysis, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $ 57 million in the first quarter of 2016. In addition, in the first quarter of 2016, acquired intangible assets were reduced by $ 19 million to adjust the carrying amount of the disposal group's net assets and liabilities down to its fair value less cost to sell. In 2016, the Company also recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to the sale of its corporate plane that was completed in the second quarter of 2016. The Company recorded a $340 million impairment of goodwill during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. Other (Expense) Income, net In millions 2016 2015 Gain on securities $ $ 15 Interest income 3 2 Interest expense (7 ) (3 ) Other (1 ) (1 ) Other (expense) income, net $ (5 ) $ 13 Other expense in the first six months of 2016 arose primarily from $7 million in interest expense on long-term debt. Other income in the first six months of 2015 arose primarily from a $15 million gain on the sale of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Effective tax rate 55.0 % (11.0 )% For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the effective tax rate includes a discrete tax impact resulting from the $76 million impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles recorded in the first quarter, of which $57 million is related to non-deductible goodwill and $19 million is related to impairment of intangibles, for which a tax benefit of $6 million was recorded. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the effective tax rate includes a discrete tax impact resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment reflected in the second quarter, of which $318 million is related to non-deductible goodwill and $22 million relates to tax-deductible goodwill, for which a tax benefit of $8 million was recorded. The difference in the effective tax rate period over period was primarily driven by the difference in the discrete tax impact from the non-deductible goodwill impairment recorded in the first quarter of 2016 versus the second quarter of 2015. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the six months ended June 30 : 25 Table of Contents % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 620 54.2 % $ 684 56.9 % International Data and Analytics 455 39.8 % 445 36.9 % Total Data and Analytics 1,075 94.0 % 1,129 93.7 % Marketing Applications 69 6.0 % 76 6.3 % Total segment revenue $ 1,144 100 % $ 1,205 100 % Segment gross margin Americas Data and Analytics $ 347 56.0 % $ 383 56.0 % International Data and Analytics 213 46.8 % 211 47.4 % Total Data and Analytics 560 52.1 % 594 52.6 % Marketing Applications 33 47.8 % 31 40.8 % Total segment gross margin $ 593 51.8 % $ 625 51.9 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 9% in the first six months of 2016 as compared to the first six months of 2015, which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue decline was driven by a decline in large capital expenditure transaction revenue in the first six months of 2016 as compared to first six months of 2015. Segment gross margins were flat as compared to first six months of 2015. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 2% in the first six months of 2016 as compared to the first six months of 2015, which included a 2% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in the European and Asia Pacific regions in the first six months of 2016 as compared to first six months of 2015. Segment gross margins were down from the first six months of 2015 driven by a decrease in product gross margin. The decline in product gross margin was driven by deal and product mix. Service margins increased as compared to first six months in 2015 due to improved utilization of our professional service associates in the international region. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 9% in the first six months of 2016 as compared to the first six months of 2015. The revenue decrease included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The decline in revenue was driven by lower recurring revenues in the first six months of 2016 as compared to the first six months of 2015. The overall segment gross margin increase is primarily driven by higher product and professional services margins. In the first half of 2015 the Company made investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market, which resulted in lower service margins in 2015. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities increased by $48 million in the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to changes in working capital. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. 26 Table of Contents The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Six Months Ended June 30, In millions 2016 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 350 $ 302 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (17 ) (29 ) Additions to capitalized software (36 ) (30 ) Free cash flow $ 297 $ 243 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These other investing activities included $4 million of additional release of funds from previous acquisitions in the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to proceeds of $15 million from the sale of an investment in the six months ended June 30, 2015. Teradatas financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, payments on credit facility borrowings and long-term debt. The Company purchased 2.6 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $23.70 in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 7.0 million shares at an average price per share of $42.90 in the six months ended June 30, 2015 . The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of June 30, 2016 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $528 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $19 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Additionally, during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , the Company repaid $180 million against the principal balance of its revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") and $15 million on its term loan, which is discussed further below. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $894 million as of June 30, 2016 and $819 million as of December 31, 2015 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $15 million as of June 30, 2016 and $20 million as of December 31, 2015 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional United States income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of June 30, 2016 , we have not provided for the United States federal tax liability on approximately $1.2 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2015 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. 27 Table of Contents Long-term Debt. Teradata's $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of June 30, 2016 , the term loan principal outstanding was $585 million and carried an interest rate of 1.8750% . Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $2 million are being amortized over the five -year term of the loan. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of June 30, 2016 . Teradata's Credit Facility has a borrowing capacity of $400 million . The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of June 30, 2016 , the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Unamortized deferred costs on the original credit facility and new lender fees of approximately $1 million are being amortized over the five-year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of June 30, 2016 . Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2015 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2015 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the six months ended June 30, 2016 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies, except as discussed below. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with Marlin Equity to sell the marketing applications business for $90 million in cash, subject to a post-closing adjustment for working capital, debt and other metrics, which is currently estimated at $92 million. The Company performed a goodwill impairment analysis on the business to be disposed of based on the revised fair value. As a result of this analysis, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $ 57 million in the first quarter of 2016. In addition, acquired intangible assets were reduced in the first quarter of 2016 by $ 19 million to adjust the carrying amount of 28 Table of Contents the disposal group's net assets and liabilities down to its fair value less cost to sell. No further adjustments were required in the second quarter of 2016 to either goodwill or intangible assets. The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be an indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.