Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ("MD&A") You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to several factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See "Risk Factors" and "Forward-looking Statements." OVERVIEW Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a leading hybrid cloud analytics software provider focused on helping companies leverage all of their data across an enterprise to uncover real-time intelligence, at scale. In doing so, we enable them to find answers to their toughest challenges. Our solutions enable customers to integrate and simplify their analytics ecosystem, access and manage data, and use analytics to extract answers and derive business value from data. Our solutions are comprised of software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services to deliver analytics across a companys entire analytics ecosystem. Teradatas strategy is based on our mission of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. Our target market is made up of companies that we believe are the world's most demanding, large-scale users of data. These companies face significant challenges including siloed data and conflicting and duplicative solutions that typically results in considerable expense to maintain and to manage the complexity. Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to our target market through a portfolio of integrated data and analytic solutions. Teradata Vantage is an extremely scalable, secure, highly concurrent and resilient analytics platform that addresses the challenges faced in our targeted customer set. By offering customers full integration of their datasets, tools, analytics languages, functions, and engines in one analytical platform, Vantage reduces customers complexity, risk, and costs. Our Vantage platform embraces leading commercial and open source analytics technologies and is available in the cloud and on-premises. All subscription-based Teradata software licenses enable portability of the software license between cloud and on-premises deployment options; this flexibility is designed to reduce risk associated with customers buying decisions. Customer buying behavior has shifted from predominantly capital-intensive purchases to these subscription-based purchasing options. In the near term, the movement to subscription-based transactions is negatively impacting the timing of our reported revenue and our cash flows because revenue and cash related to subscription-based transactions are recognized and received over time versus upfront as was the case with the capital purchase model. The transition to a subscription-based model is expected to increase our recurring revenue, create more predictable operating results and improve cash flow generation. Near term impacts, however, can fluctuate based on the pace of customer adoption, which can be difficult to predict. In the longer term, we expect our reported operating results and cash flow to normalize and increase as customers increasingly transition to these subscription-based offerings. We are continuing to invest in Teradatas future, including investments to (i) support and expand our cloud-based offerings, market-leading Vantage platform, and analytical consulting and solutions, (ii) align our go-to-market approach to best address our target customers, and (iii) modernize our infrastructure. 24 Table of Contents In connection with the Company's business transformation, Teradata introduced additional financial and performance metrics to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives. These metrics included the following: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual contract value for all active and contractually binding term-based contracts at the end of a period. It includes maintenance, software upgrade rights, subscription-based transactions and managed services. Bookings Mix - subscription bookings divided by the sum of subscription bookings plus perpetual bookings. Because we expect little to no perpetual revenue in 2020, we will not be providing bookings mix as a key financial and performance metric going forward. 2019 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2019 : Revenue of $1,899 million decreased by 12% in 2019 as compared to 2018 , with an underlying 9% increase in recurring revenue as the Company's business shifts to subscription-based transactions. The increase in recurring revenue was more than offset by a 69% decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and a 24% decrease in consulting services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2% negative impact on total revenue for the year. Gross margin was 50.3% in 2019 , an increase from 47.4% in 2018 , primarily due to a higher recurring revenue mix as compared to prior year. Operating expenses in 2019 decreased by 3.9% as compared to 2018 , primarily due to cost management initiatives. Operating income was $10 million in 2019 , down from $43 million in 2018 , primarily due to a decrease in revenue as compared to the prior year as a result of a higher subscription-based bookings mix, which resulted in a significant decline in perpetual as well as a decline in consulting revenue, as expected and generally in line with our strategy. Net loss was $20 million in 2019 versus net income of $30 million in 2018 . Net loss per share was $0.18 in 2019 compared to net income per share of $0.25 in 2018 . 25 Table of Contents RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 , 2018 AND 2017 In July 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update 2019-07, "Codification Updates to SEC Sections-Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification", which makes a number of changes meant to simplify certain disclosures in financial condition and results of operations, particularly by eliminating year-to-year comparisons between prior periods previously disclosed. In accordance with the relevant aspects of the rule covering the current year annual report, we now include disclosures on results of operations for fiscal year 2019 versus 2018 only. For discussion of fiscal year 2018 versus 2017 see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. Revenue % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Recurring $ 1,362 71.7 % $ 1,254 57.9 % Perpetual software license and hardware 106 5.6 % 340 15.7 % Consulting services 431 22.7 % 570 26.3 % Total revenue $ 1,899 100 % $ 2,164 100 % 2019 compared to 2018 - Total revenue was down $265 million or 12% in 2019, which included a 2% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue grew 9%, which included a 2% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. This increase in recurring revenue was driven by our movement to subscription-based transactions from perpetual software licenses and hardware transactions, which is consistent with our strategy. Under a subscription business model, we recognize revenue over time as opposed to the upfront recognition under the perpetual model. As the Company shifts to a recurring revenue model and focuses its consulting resources on strategic engagements that drive increased software consumption within our targeted customer base, perpetual revenue and consulting revenue declined versus the prior-year period, which more than offset the increase in recurring revenue. For 2020, we expect ARR growth and recurring revenue growth of at least 8%. Taking into consideration the growth in recurring revenue offset by reduced perpetual software license and hardware revenue and reduced consulting services revenues of mid-single digits, we believe total revenues will be flat to down slightly in 2020. Revenues from perpetual software licenses and hardware in 2019 decreased 69%, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue is consistent with our strategy to sell more subscription-based offerings. We expect perpetual revenues to continue to decline as customers switch to our subscription-based offerings. Perpetual revenue is primarily hardware-related, as software is generally being sold on subscription. We expect that there will be little to no perpetual revenue in 2020. Consulting services revenue decreased 24%, which included a 1% negative impact from foreign currency, as we are realigning and focusing our consulting resources on higher-margin engagements that drive increased software consumption within our targeted customer base. In 2019, we made progress towards our strategy of refocusing our consulting organization on Vantage-oriented offerings and de-emphasizing non-core consulting engagements. We expect consulting revenue to decline longer term as we expect a deepening partner ecosystem and product simplification to reduce our reliance on Teradata's consulting organization while creating greater total value for our customers. In line with our strategy to increase consumption of Teradata software, we are narrowing the focus of our consulting resources to engagements that drive customer value and increase consumption of our software. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of January 31, 2020, Teradata is expecting one percentage point negative impact from currency translation on our 2020 full year projected revenue growth rate. Included below are financial and performance growth metrics for 2019: ARR was $1.427 billion at the end of 2019, a 9% increase from $1.308 billion at the end of 2018 26 Table of Contents 88% of our bookings mix in 2019 were subscription-based Total backlog grew 7% to $2.732 billion Our ARR is composed of three main categories: (1) subscription and cloud-related ARR, (2) ARR related to our legacy perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights, and (3) ARR related to subscription-based managed services. At December 31, 2019, our ARR consisted of: $700 million of subscription and cloud-related ARR, up 42%; $615 million of perpetual license maintenance and software upgrade rights-related ARR, down 14%; and $112 million of managed services-related ARR, which grew 13%. The slower rate of decline in our maintenance and software upgrade-related ARR, compared to 2018, is by design and results from changes in compensation for sales personnel that removed incentives to convert existing perpetual licenses to subscription without also growing subscription licenses. Over time, we continue to expect our subscription business to continue to show healthy growth, while perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights-related ARR is likely to decline low double digits. The rate of our transition to a recurring revenue model has been significantly faster than expected, and we believe it is reflective of the value our customers see in our subscription model and cloud offerings. Because we expect little to no perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue in 2020, we do not intend to continue providing the bookings mix as a key financial and performance metric going forward. Total backlog grew 7% year-over-year, despite significantly shorter average contract durations compared to 2018. We believe this shows the strength and commitment of our customer relationships and continued adoption of our core product platform. In 2019, we changed our compensation structure for sales personnel to only compensate on transactions with contract durations of up to three years versus five years in 2018. This drove a meaningful reduction in our contract durations from well over four years in 2018 to closer to three years in 2019. We expect contract durations to remain stable in 2020. Gross Profit The Company often uses specific terms and definitions to describe variances in gross profit. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of recurring, consulting, and perpetual software licenses and hardware that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross profit even if total revenue remains unchanged. Recurring Revenue Mix - The proportion of various recurring revenue offerings that comprise the total of recurring revenue. For example, a higher mix of subscriptions including hardware rentals could have a negative impact on total recurring gross profit. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period that generate the total perpetual software license and hardware revenue. For example, a higher mix of hardware versus software or the mix of Teradata versus third-party products can impact profitability. Gross profit for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Gross profit Recurring $ 920 67.5 % $ 880 70.2 % Perpetual software licenses and hardware 22 20.8 % 118 34.7 % Consulting Services 13 3.0 % 28 4.9 % Total gross profit $ 955 50.3 % $ 1,026 47.4 % 2019 compared to 2018 - The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of subscription-based revenue as compared to the prior-year period. Subscription-based transactions are typically lower margin as compared to the recurring revenue from legacy software maintenance and software 27 Table of Contents upgrade rights on perpetual software, due to the higher mix of hardware in subscription-based transactions. In 2020, we expect subscription-based margins to be in line with 2019. The decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenue as some customers continue to purchase their hardware upfront while buying the software on a subscription basis, which is recorded in recurring revenue. In addition, our hardware gross margin was negatively impacted by deal mix and currency swings on inter-company transactions in regions where we cannot hedge currency fluctuations. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased due to a faster-than-expected decrease in revenue as compared to the prior-year as the Company refocused our consulting organization on Vantage-oriented offerings and dramatically reduced our footprint in non-core consulting engagements. As a result of these actions, we expect profitable consulting growth longer term. In 2020, we expect overall gross profit as a percent of revenue to increase as we continue to expect the revenue mix to shift from lower-margin consulting and perpetual revenue to higher-margin recurring revenue. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 618 32.5 % $ 666 30.8 % Research and development expenses 327 17.2 % 317 14.6 % Total operating expenses $ 945 49.8 % $ 983 45.4 % 2019 compared to 2018 - The SG&A expense decrease was mostly driven by a restructuring of our sales organization designed to focus on our enterprise customers, and at the same time, creating a more efficient go-to-market coverage model for our commercial customers. In addition, expenses were also down due to lower payments related to the Company's annual variable incentive plan as compared to the prior year. R&D expenses increased due to strategic investments in our Vantage analytics platform and our cloud offerings as we increase the reach of Teradata to multiple public cloud platforms. Other Expense, net In millions 2019 2018 Interest income $ 12 $ 14 Interest expense (26 ) (22 ) Other (9 ) (8 ) Total Other Expense, net $ (23 ) $ (16 ) In 2019, other expense, net was comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense, net increased compared to the prior year due to a lower cash balance, decreases in interest rates on investments and additional interest expense on finance leases. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: 2019 2018 Effective Tax Rate (53.8 )% (11.1 )% The 2019 effective tax rate was impacted by $3 million tax expense related to equity compensation and $3 million of incremental global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") tax, which resulted in full-year income tax expense in 2019 of $7 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $13 million, causing a negative tax rate of 53.8%. 28 Table of Contents The 2018 effective tax rate was impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Act"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, making significant changes to the United States Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to: A corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, The transition of United States international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system, and A one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") was issued to address the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded $6 million of tax benefit in accordance with SAB 118 as an adjustment to the provisional estimates resulting from additional regulatory guidance and changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company initially made because of the Tax Act. This resulted in an overall income tax benefit for 2018. The Companys first quarter and full-year 2020 effective tax rate is expected to include approximately $152 million of discrete tax benefit related to an intra-entity asset transfer of certain of its intellectual property ("IP") to one of its Irish subsidiaries, which occurred on January 1, 2020. The tax benefit for this intra-entity asset transfer will be recorded as a deferred tax asset in the first quarter of 2020 and represents the book and tax basis difference on the transferred assets measured based on the applicable Irish statutory tax rate. The tax deductions for amortization of the IP asset will be recognized in the future, and any amortization not deducted for tax purposes will be carried forward indefinitely under Irish tax laws. The Company expects to be able to realize the deferred tax assets resulting from these intra-entity asset transfers. The Company is expecting its full-year effective tax rate for 2020 to be approximately (600)%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2020, including the discrete tax benefit related to the intra-entity asset transfer discussed above. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 33%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 21% in the U.S. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2019, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata now manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APAC region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior-period results have been restated to conform to the current year presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: 29 Table of Contents % of % of % of In millions 2019 Revenue 2018 Revenue 2017 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 1,057 55.7 % $ 1,126 52.0 % $ 1,195 55.3 % EMEA 492 25.9 % 587 27.1 % 567 26.3 % APAC 350 18.4 % 451 20.8 % 394 18.3 % Total segment revenue $ 1,899 100 % $ 2,164 100 % $ 2,156 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 626 59.2 % $ 621 55.2 % $ 675 56.5 % EMEA 239 48.6 % 275 46.8 % 276 48.7 % APAC 148 42.3 % 199 44.1 % 161 40.9 % Total segment gross profit $ 1,013 53.3 % $ 1,095 50.6 % $ 1,112 51.6 % 2019 compared to 2018 Americas Revenue decreased 6%, which included a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and decrease in consulting revenue. The increase in recurring revenue and decline in perpetual revenue were driven by the shift to subscription-based transactions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. EMEA EMEA revenue decreased 16%, which includes a 3% unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and decrease in consulting revenue. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. APAC APAC revenue decreased 22%, which included a 2% unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and a decrease in consulting revenue. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to a decline in consulting margins and decline in perpetual software licenses and hardware margins as a result of a higher mix of hardware, partially offset by a higher mix of recurring revenue. 2018 compared to 2017 Americas Revenue decreased 6%, which included a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue and consulting revenue. The increase in recurring revenue and decline in perpetual revenue were driven by the shift to subscription-based transactions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to lower perpetual revenue margin from a higher mix of hardware as some customers continued to purchase hardware upfront while buying software on a subscription basis. EMEA EMEA revenue increased 4%, which included a 3% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue and consulting revenue was partially offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to due to a decline in perpetual software and hardware margins, which more than offset a favorable higher mix of recurring revenue. 30 Table of Contents APAC APAC revenue increased 14%, which included a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue and consulting revenue was partially offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to growth in higher margin recurring revenue and an increase in consulting services gross margin as the Company continued to focus on making operational improvements in its consulting business. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2019 with $494 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $221 millio n decrease from the December 31, 2018 balance, after using approximately $300 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $216 million to $148 million in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven by a faster transition to a subscription model, higher cash payments in 2019 related to 2018 variable compensation, lower upfront multi-year cash payments from subscription-based transactions, and higher cash used for reorganizing and restructuring our operations and go-to-market functions to align to our strategy. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software. Free cash flow is one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 148 $ 364 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (54 ) (153 ) Additions to capitalized software (5 ) (7 ) Free cash flow $ 89 $ 204 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities in 2019 and $3 million in other investing activities in 2018 for a release of hold-back amounts from a prior year acquisition. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $300 million for share repurchases, repayment of existing term loan of $19 million , $33 million of payments on finance leases, partially offset by $44 million net inflows from other financing activities. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2018 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $300 million for share repurchases, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $240 million , repayment of existing term loan of $40 million , $5 million of payments on finance leases, partially offset by $31 million net inflows from other financing activities. The Company purchased 8.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $35.38 in 2019 and 7.9 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $37.89 in 2018. 31 Table of Contents Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first of these programs (the "dilution offset program") authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of December 31, 2019, under the Companys second share repurchase program (the "general share repurchase program"), the Company had approximately $503 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax paid for shares withheld upon equity award settlement, were $44 million in 2019 and $33 million in 2018 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $344 million as of December 31, 2019 and $364 million as of December 31, 2018 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $150 million as of December 31, 2019 and $351 million as of December 31, 2018 . Prior to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act, the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest its earnings outside of the United States. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the United States and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt . In June 2018, Teradata replaced its former five-year, $400 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Facility ends in June 2023 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Facility, Teradata from time to time and subject to certain conditions may increase the lending commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount up to an additional $200 million, to the extent that existing or new lenders agree to provide such additional commitments. The outstanding principal amount of the Credit Facility bears interest at a floating rate based upon, at Teradatas option, a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus, in each case, a margin based on Teradatas leverage ratio. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). The Credit Facility is unsecured but is guaranteed by certain of Teradatas material domestic subsidiaries and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, with $400 million in borrowing capacity available under the Credit Facility. Unamortized deferred costs on the original credit facility and new lender fees of approximately $1 million were being amortized over the five -year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2019. Also, in June 2018, Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $500 million five-year term loan, the proceeds of which plus additional cash-on-hand were used to pay off the remaining $525 million of principal on its previous term loan. The term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on June 30, 2019 with 1.25% of the initial principal amount due on each of the first eight payment dates; 2.50% of the initial principal amount due on each of the next four payment dates; 5.0% of the initial principal amount due on each of the next three payment dates; and all remaining principal due in June 2023. The outstanding principal amount of the term loan bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus, in each case, a margin based on 32 Table of Contents the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2019, the term loan principal outstanding was $482 million. Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $2 million are being amortized over the five-year term of the loan. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the term loan as of December 31, 2019. In addition, in June 2018, Teradata executed a five-year interest rate swap with a $500 million initial notional amount in order to hedge the floating interest rate on the above-described term loan. The notional amount of the hedge will step-down according to the amortization schedule of the term loan. The notional amount of the hedge was $482 million as of December 31, 2019. As a result of the swap, Teradatas fixed rate on the term loan equals 2.86% plus the applicable leverage-based margin as defined in the Term Loan agreement. As of December 31, 2019, the all-in fixed rate was 4.36% Leases. In the normal course of business, the Company enters into operating and finance leases that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. Leases are described in detail in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments below for minimum lease obligations as of December 31, 2019. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outline our material obligations at December 31, 2019 , with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2021- 2023- 2025 and In millions Amounts 2020 2022 2024 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term debt $ 482 $ 25 $ 132 $ 325 $ Interest payments on long-term debt 47 15 27 5 Principal payments on finance leases 130 55 75 Interest payments on finance leases 7 5 2 Operating lease obligations 65 24 28 11 2 Transition tax 92 19 43 30 Purchase obligations 159 43 85 31 Total debt, lease and purchase obligations $ 982 $ 167 $ 368 $ 415 $ 32 Our principal payments on long-term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $482 million term loan balance and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long-term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate as of December 31, 2019 . Our principal payments on finance leases represent the expected cash payment on our finance leases obligation, which was $130 million as of December 31, 2019. Our interest payments on finance leases represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the interest rates per finance lease agreements as of December 31, 2019 . Our operating lease obligations in the above table includes Company facilities in various domestic and international locations as well as automobile leases in certain countries. Transition tax is the remaining payable balance as of December 31, 2019 of the one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings resulting from the Tax Act. The payments associated with this deemed repatriation will be paid over seven years ending in 2025. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, the Company had $37 million in total uncertain tax positions recorded on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 , of which $19 million is recorded in non-current liabilities and $18 million is reflected as an offset to deferred tax assets related to certain tax attribute carryforwards. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities. However, it is not expected that any payments will be due within the next 12 months. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown 33 Table of Contents above. The Company is also potentially subject to concentration of supplier risk. Our hardware components are assembled exclusively by Flex Ltd. ("Flex"). Flex procures a wide variety of components used in the manufacturing process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, Teradata utilizes preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost, and delivery. Typically, these preferred suppliers maintain alternative processes and/or facilities to ensure continuity of supply. Given the Companys strategy to outsource its manufacturing activities to Flex and to source certain components from single suppliers, a disruption in production at Flex or at a supplier could impact the timing of customer shipments and/or Teradatas operating results. In addition, a significant change in the forecasts to any of these preferred suppliers could result in purchase obligations or components that may be in excess of demand. Product warranties and third-party guarantees are described in detail in "Note 10Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in "Note 8Employee Benefit Plans" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see "Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"). This standard replaced existing revenue recognition rules with a comprehensive revenue measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. Refer to Notes 1 and 3, of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all performance obligations in the contract and in determining the standalone selling price of each performance obligation, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis and applicable renewal rates for services and 34 Table of Contents subscriptions. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. The Company reviews the standalone selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the year ended December 31, 2019 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the standalone selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Company made an accounting policy election in 2018 related to the Tax Act to provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017, the Company had not provided for taxes on the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries as the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest those earnings outside of the United States. Because of the Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the United States and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. The Company has recorded $1 million of deferred foreign and state tax expense with respect to certain earnings that are not considered permanently reinvested. Deferred taxes have not been provided on earnings considered indefinitely reinvested. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2019, the Company has a total of $37 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $19 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability. The remaining balance of $18 million of uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes generated by the Company which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have recorded $45 million in 2019 and $39 million in 2018 for valuation allowances, a majority of which offset our California R&D tax credit carryfoward, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California R&D tax credits into the foreseeable future. Stock-based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period. We utilize pricing models, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation at the date of grant. These valuation models require the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. In addition, we issue performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Since the adoption of the FASB Accounting Standards Update - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, effective January 1, 2016, we account for forfeitures as they occur instead of estimating forfeitures at the time of grant and revising those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from our estimates. 35 Table of Contents Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. For 2019, the Company performed a quantitative impairment test. In this test, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill and determined that no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was necessary. Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Leases On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)", which requires leases with durations greater than twelve months to be recognized on the balance sheet. We determine if a contract contains a lease at inception. Our material operating leases consist of automobiles in certain countries and real estate, including office, storage and parking space. Our operating leases generally have remaining terms of 2-10 years. Our finance leases primarily consist of equipment financed for the purpose of delivering services to our customers and generally have terms of 3 years. Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments not yet paid. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset and are based upon the operating lease liabilities adjusted for prepayments or accrued lease payments, initial direct costs, lease incentives, and impairment of operating lease assets. To determine the present value of lease payments not yet paid, when available, the we use the rate implicit in the lease. However, real estate leases do not typically provide a readily determinable implicit rate. Therefore, we estimate the incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement. The incremental borrowing rate used in the calculation of the lease liability is based on the secured rate associated with financed lease obligations for each location of leased property. Many of our leases include variable rental escalation clauses which are recognized when incurred. Some of our leases also include renewal options and/or termination options that are factored into the determination of lease payments and lease terms when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise these options. Lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. Changes in judgments and estimates, such as the likelihood of renewal options, impairments, or the incremental borrowing rate could impact the amounts of assets or liabilities recorded or could impact the amount of cost or expense recognized between periods. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial 36 Table of Contents assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2019 , a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $12 million , and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $10 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in "Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference.