Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ("MD&A") You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to several factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See "Risk Factors" and "Forward-looking Statements." OVERVIEW At Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company"), we believe that people thrive when empowered with trusted information. We are focused on helping organizations improve business performance, enrich customer experiences, and integrate data across the enterprise. As such, we strive to innovate and deliver 32 Table of Contents trusted solutions for their toughest data and analytics challenges. That is why we built our comprehensive open and connected cloud analytics and data platform for artificial intelligence ("AI"). With our Teradata Vantage platform, underpinned by our extensive patented workload management optimization, we are well positioned to help enterprises solve business problems and deliver business breakthroughs with its capabilities to provide harmonized data, trusted AI, and faster innovation. As a result, we believe that we empower our customers - and our customers' customers - to make better, more confident decisions, engage in faster innovation, and drive positive impact within the enterprise. Teradata is recognized by industry analysts as offering a cloud analytics and data platform with next-generation, cloud-native deployment and expansive analytics capabilities. Teradatas strategy is discussed under Part I, Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including supporting our on-premises customers, migrating customers to the cloud, upgrading customers from VantageCloud Enterprise to VantageCloud Lake, expanding our Teradata Vantage analytics and data platform product offering (which includes VantageCloud Enterprise, VantageCloud Lake, and ClearScape Analytics), adding new customers and expanding our footprint with existing customers, informing our customers on our AI capabilities, increasing our focus on diversity and inclusiveness, and driving operational excellence and agility across the Company. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Total Annual Recurring Revenue ("Total ARR") - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts, including subscription, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance. ARR does not include managed services and third-party software. Public Cloud ARR (included within Total ARR) - annual value at a point in time of all contracts related to public cloud implementations of Teradata VantageCloud and does not include ARR related to private or managed cloud implementations. Cloud Net Expansion Rate - Teradata calculates its last-twelve months dollar-based cloud net expansion rate as of a fiscal quarter end as follows: We identify the ARR for active cloud customers in the fiscal quarter ending one year prior to the given fiscal quarter (the "base period"); We then identify the public cloud ARR in the given fiscal quarter (the "current period") from the same set of active cloud customers as the base period, including increases in usage, as well as reductions and cancellations, and additional conversions of on-premises revenues to the cloud for customers active in the base period, all in constant currency; and The quarterly dollar-based, cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the ARR from the current period and dividing by the ARR from the base period. The last twelve-month dollar-based cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the average of the quarterly dollar-based cloud net expansion rate from the last fiscal quarter and the prior three fiscal quarters. 2023 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2023: Revenue of $1,833 million increased by 2% in 2023 as compared to 2022, with a 5% increase in recurring revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2% adverse impact on total revenue compared to the prior year. The recurring revenue increase was due primarily to an increase in Public Cloud revenue from migrations and expansions. Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue decreased by 31% and consulting services revenue decreased by 5%. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other decreased primarily due to our strategic shift towards recurring revenue. The decline in consulting service revenue was additionally due to our focus on higher-margin engagements and purposeful decrease in consulting services given the development of our strategic partner ecosystem. 33 Table of Contents Gross profit as a percent of revenue was 60.8% in 2023, an increase from 60.2% in 2022,primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue and improving cloud gross profit rates year-over-year. Operating expenses in 2023 decreased by 4% as compared to 2022, primarily driven by our cost discipline initiatives and a favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Operating income was $186 million in 2023, up from $118 million in 2022. Net income was $62 million in 2023 versus net income of $33 million in 2022, primarily due to increased revenue and lower operating expenses.Diluted net earnings per share was $0.61 in 2023 compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.31 in 2022. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 AND 2022 For discussion of fiscal year 2022 versus 2021 see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Revenue % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Recurring $ 1,492 81.4 % $ 1,419 79.1 % Perpetual software license, hardware and other 45 2.5 % 65 3.6 % Consulting services 296 16.1 % 311 17.3 % Total revenue $ 1,833 100.0 % $ 1,795 100.0 % 2023 compared to 2022 - Total revenue increased2% in 2023, which included a 2%negative impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Total revenue growth was led by increased recurring revenue, offset in part by lower perpetual software license, hardware, and other revenue, as well as lower consulting revenue. Recurring revenue grew5% in 2023, which included a 2% negative impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Recurring revenue growth was driven by an increase in cloud revenue as we continue our intentional shift to the cloud. All three regions experienced strong cloud revenue growth year-over-year. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware, and other were down31% in 2023, including 2% of adverse impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as customers continue to transition to our subscription-based offerings, consistent with our overall strategy towards recurring revenue. Consulting services revenue decreased5%, including a 3% adverse impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as we continue to realign and focus our consulting resources on higher-margin engagements. In this regard, we are focused on both direct engagement with customers and joint engagement with partners that drive increased software consumption within our targeted customer base. As a portion of our operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of January 31, 2024, Teradata is estimating a 1.0%-to-1.5% negative impact from currency translation on our 2024 full-year total revenues. 34 Table of Contents Financial and Performance Measures Total ARR is composed of three main categories: (1) Public Cloud ARR, (2) ARR related to on-premises subscription-based contracts and private cloud ("Subscription ARR"), and (3) ARR related to our legacy perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights. Our financial and performance measures for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: ARR 2023 2022 In millions Public Cloud $ 528 $ 357 Subscription 869 844 Maintenance and Software upgrade rights 173 281 Total ARR $ 1,570 $ 1,482 Cloud Net Expansion rate 124 % 117 % Total ARR increased 6% versus the prior year, with declines in Maintenance and Software upgrade rights ARR, more than off-set by growth in Public Cloud ARR and Subscription ARR. Foreign currency fluctuations had a positive 1% impact on total ARR. Our overall ARR growth was primarily driven by increased demand for our differentiated offerings, increasing partner involvement, and incremental workloads driving migrations and expansions. Public Cloud ARR increased 48% versus the prior year primarily due to on-premises customers migrating to Teradata VantageCloud along with a strong net expansion rate of 124%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a positive 2% impact on Public Cloud ARR. Public Cloud ARR growth and the improved Cloud Net Expansion rate were driven by customer demand for our differentiated offerings, resulting in new workloads for both migrations and expansions. Subscription ARR increased 3% in 2023 from the prior year primarily due to net expansions, and included a 1% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Our Maintenance and Software upgrade rights ARR declined38% compared to 2022. This was expected as we continue to transition to a subscription model and customers increasingly purchased Teradata on a subscription and/or public cloud basis. We expect to see expansion as the primary contributor for Total ARR growth in 2024 and expansion and conversion as the primary contributors for Public Cloud ARR growth in 2024. Gross Profit The Company often uses specific terms and definitions to describe variances in gross profit. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of recurring, consulting, and perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross profit even if total revenue remains unchanged. Recurring Revenue Mix - The proportion of various recurring revenue offerings that comprise the total of recurring revenue. For example, a higher mix of cloud deals will have a negative impact on total recurring gross profit until we achieve scale. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period that generate the total perpetual software license, hardware and other revenue. For example, a higher mix of Teradata versus third-party products can positively impact profitability. 35 Table of Contents Gross profit for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Gross profit Recurring $ 1,074 72.0 % $ 1,022 72.0 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 7 15.6 % 18 27.7 % Consulting services 34 11.5 % 41 13.2 % Total gross profit $ 1,115 60.8 % $ 1,081 60.2 % 2023 compared to 2022 -The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by a higher mix of recurring revenue and improving cloud gross profit rates year-over-year. Recurring gross profit as a percentage of revenue was flat from the prior year, primarily because the negative gross profit rate impact on increased Public Cloud revenue was offset by improved Public Cloud gross profit rates year-over-year. The decrease in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix and a higher ratio of perpetual hardware to software revenue as compared to prior year as the vast majority of all customers have transitioned to our subscription-based offerings, consistent with our overall strategy. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased as compared to the prior year primarily due to lower consulting services revenue. We continue to refocus our consulting organization on Teradata Vantage-oriented offerings and reduce our footprint in non-core consulting engagements, accompanied by our strategic development of a partner ecosystem. We expect to continue investing in activities that generate growth in AI, enhance commercial awareness of our brand, and continue to drive increased adoption and consumption of the Teradata VantageCloud platform, including greater efficiencies with cloud service providers. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 635 34.6 % $ 650 36.2 % Research and development expenses 294 16.0 % 313 17.4 % Total operating expenses $ 929 50.7 % $ 963 53.6 % 2023 compared to 2022 - The decrease in selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense was primarily driven by the favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and continued cost discipline as compared to the prior year. R&D expenses decreased in 2023 as compared to the prior year. R&D expenses were impacted by continued cost discipline initiatives as compared to the prior year. We intend to continue investing in areas that generate growth, such as AI/ML, demand creation, and brand awareness. We expect to balance these investments with cost discipline in non-revenue generating areas and productivity improvements. 36 Table of Contents Other Expense, net In millions 2023 2022 Interest income $ 25 $ 15 Interest expense (30) (24) Other (64) (42) Total Other Expense, net $ (69) $ (51) Other expense, net in 2023 and 2022, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, foreign currency transactions, as well as benefit costs for our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense is higher in 2023, primarily due to a $13 million loss with respect to Argentina Blue Chip Swaps (a foreign exchange mechanism which effectively results in a parallel U.S. dollar exchange rate) in order to remit cash from our Argentine operations and $8 million higher losses resulting from foreign currency transactions compared to the prior year. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: 2023 2022 Effective Tax Rate 47.0 % 50.7 % The 2023 effective tax rate included a net $18 million of discrete tax expense, of which $15 million of tax expense related to the foreign currency translation impact on deferred and payable balances for our Argentina operations due to hyperinflation in Argentina and $10 million of tax expense related to a valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets for our operations in Argentina and other reorganization and transformation activities.These expenses were offset by $4 million of tax benefit related to the reversal of a FIN 48 tax reserve due to the expiration of statute of limitations and $3 million of incremental tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. The 2022 effective tax rate included a net $1 million of discrete tax benefit, of which $2 million of tax benefit related to the reversal of a FIN 48 tax reserve due to the expiration of statute of limitations and $4 million of incremental tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. These tax benefits were partially offset by $5 million of discrete tax expense related to valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets and current receivables in Russia that are not expected to be realized as a result of the discontinuation of our business in Russia in 2022. Effective on January 1, 2022, the U.S. tax law changed to require that R&D expenses be capitalized and amortized for tax purposes under Internal Revenue Code Section 174; as a result of this law change, we recognized approximately $2 million of tax expense related to global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") in our marginal effective tax rate for 2023 and approximately $4 million for 2022. We expect that a majority of our foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 Table of Contents The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: % of % of In millions 2023 Revenue 2022 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 1,089 59.4 % $ 1,038 57.8 % EMEA 475 25.9 % 465 25.9 % APJ 269 14.7 % 292 16.3 % Total segment revenue $ 1,833 100 % $ 1,795 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 689 63.3 % $ 643 61.9 % EMEA 295 62.1 % 285 61.3 % APJ 149 55.4 % 177 60.6 % Total segment gross profit $ 1,133 61.8 % $ 1,105 61.6 % 2023 compared to 2022 Americas Americas revenue increased 5% including a 2% negative impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. An increase in Americas recurring revenue of 7% and Americas consulting revenue of 2% was partially offset by a decrease of 39% in Americas perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue. Segment gross profit, as a percentage of revenue, increased due to higher gross profit associated with upfront license revenue compared to the prior year, partially offset by a higher mix of Public Cloud revenue. EMEA EMEA revenue increased 2%, which included a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The overall increase in revenue included an increase of 10% in EMEA recurring revenue offset by a 10% decrease in EMEA consulting revenue and a decrease of 39% in EMEA perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue. EMEA segment gross profit, as a percentage of revenue, increased due to a higher mix of recurring revenue, partially offset by the negative impact of ceasing operations in Russia in 2022. APJ APJ revenue decreased 8%, which included a 5% unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The overall decrease in revenue included a decrease in APJ recurring revenue of 9% , an increase of 22% ($2 million) in APJ perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue and a decrease in APJ consulting revenue of 8%. Overall APJ revenue was negatively impacted by the wind-down of direct operations in China that started earlier in 2023. The decrease in consulting revenue was also consistent with our focus on higher-margin Teradata Vantage-oriented engagements and purposeful decrease in consulting services given our strategic development of a partner ecosystem. The decrease in APJ segment gross profit, as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to reduced revenues. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2023 with $486 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $83 million decrease from December 31, 2022, after using approximately $308 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $44 million to $375 million in 2023 compared to 2022. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the difference in cash taxes paid. Teradata had $65 million in net cash tax payments in 2023, compared to a net refund of $18 million in 2022, due primarily to a $50 million tax refund received the first quarter of 2022 related to our Cares Act carryback claim. Teradata used approximately $43 million of cash in 2023 for reorganization activities, including aligning our go-to-market function with our cloud-first strategy, and other activities to optimize our workforce, as compared to $26 million used in 2022 for similar purposes. 38 Table of Contents Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software. Free cash flow is one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2023 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 375 $ 419 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (19) (14) Additions to capitalized software (1) (2) Free cash flow $ 355 $ 403 Financing activities and certain other investing activities, such as our strategic acquisition of Stemma Technologies during the third quarter of 2023, are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. The acquisition of Stemma Technologies was not financially material. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we entered into Blue Chip Swap transactions in order to remit cash from our Argentine operations that resulted in a pre-tax loss on investment of $13 million, the net purchases of which are reported in other investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There were no other material other investing activities in 2023 and 2022. Teradatas financing activities for 2023 and 2022 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on our finance leases. At December 31, 2023, we had no outstanding borrowings on our $400 million Revolving Facility (as defined below). We have two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors: The dilution offset share repurchase program allows us to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent (i) cash is received from the exercise of stock options and (ii) employees' purchase Teradata stock pursuant to the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The purpose of the dilution offset share repurchase program is to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to the exercise of stock options and shares purchased under the ESPP. Our open market share repurchase program provides for the repurchase of Teradata stock periodically on an ongoing basis in open market transactions, through 10b5-1 programs, through accelerated share repurchase programs, in privately negotiated transactions, or through the use of derivative instruments, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. The open market share repurchase program will expire on December 31, 2025. On November 1, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion for share repurchases under the open market share repurchase program. There is a total authority of $554 million remaining under the open market share repurchase program as of December 31, 2023. In the aggregate under the dilution offset share repurchase program and the open market share repurchase program, we repurchased approximately 7.0 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $43.79 in 2023 and approximately 9.4 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $41.16 in 2022. Share repurchases are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. 39 Table of Contents Other financing activities, including net share settlement for the payroll tax liability of section 16 officers (as discussed in Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), offset by proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax, was a net inflow of $7 million for 2023 and a net inflow of $5 million (including fees from the credit facility agreement) for 2022. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $428 million as of December 31, 2023 and $405 million as of December 31, 2022. The remaining balance held in the United States ("U.S.") was $58 million as of December 31, 2023 and $164 million as of December 31, 2022. The Company expects that a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the Credit Facility or its term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-Term Debt. On June 28, 2022, we entered into a Credit Agreement that provides for (i) a five-year unsecured term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the "Term Loan"), and (ii) a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $400 million, including a $50 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $50 million sublimit for swingline loans (the "Revolving Facility" and, collectively with the Term Loan, the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Facility replaces our prior revolving credit agreement in the maximum principal of $400 million and our prior term loan agreement in the principal amount of $500 million, both of which were entered into in 2018 (the "Prior Agreements"). In connection with the execution of the Credit Facility, the $400 million term loan outstanding under the Prior Agreements was repaid in full. Our long-term debt is discussed in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, as disclosed in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Teradata entered into an interest rate swap to hedge approximately 90% of the floating interest rate of the total $500 million Term Loan and a cross currency swap to hedge a portion of Euro currency exposure of its net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. On September 21, 2023, the Credit Agreement was amended to establish key performance indicators with respect to certain environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") targets, pursuant to which certain positive or negative adjustments would be made to various fees and applicable margin based on Teradatas performance against such ESG targets. Leases. In the normal course of business, we enter into operating and finance leases that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. Leases and minimum lease obligations as of December 31, 2023 are described in detail in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outline our material obligations at December 31, 2023, with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2025- 2027- 2029 and In millions Amounts 2024 2026 2028 Thereafter Transition tax $ 52 $ 23 $ 29 $ $ Purchase obligations 848 255 412 181 Total transition tax and purchase obligations $ 900 $ 278 $ 441 $ 181 $ Transition tax is the remaining payable balance as of December 31, 2023 of the one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings resulting from the 2017 Tax Act. The payments associated with this deemed repatriation are being paid over seven years ending in 2025. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual 40 Table of Contents commitments for goods and services and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, we had $40 million of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2023, of which $19 million is recorded in non-current liabilities and $21 million is reflected as an offset to deferred tax assets related to certain tax attribute carryforwards. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities. We also have postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. We are also potentially subject to concentration of supplier risk. Our hardware components are assembled primarily by Flex Ltd. ("Flex"). Flex procures a wide variety of components used in the manufacturing process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, we utilize preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost, and delivery. Typically, these preferred suppliers maintain alternative processes and/or facilities to ensure continuity of supply. Given our strategy to outsource manufacturing activities to Flex and to source certain components from single suppliers, a disruption in production at Flex or at a supplier could impact the timing of customer shipments and/or Teradatas operating results. In addition, a significant change in the forecasts to any of these preferred suppliers could result in purchase obligations or components that may be in excess of demand. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in "Note 8Employee Benefit Plans" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see "Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 41 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all performance obligations in the contract and in determining the standalone selling price of each performance obligation, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis and applicable renewal rates for services and subscriptions. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. We review the standalone selling price on a periodic basis and update it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect our recent pricing experience. We maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by management. For the year ended December 31, 2023 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the standalone selling price, nor do we expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Refer to Notes 1 and 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Company made an accounting policy election in 2018 related to the 2017 Tax Act to provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years. The Company considers a majority of its foreign earnings not indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. However, these distributions may be subject to non-U.S. withholding taxes if profits are distributed from certain jurisdictions; accordingly, the Company has recorded$5 millionof deferred foreign tax expense with respect to certain earnings that are not considered permanently reinvested. Deferred taxes have not been provided on earnings considered indefinitely reinvested. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has a total of $40 millionof unrecognized tax benefits, of which $19 millionis included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability and $21 millionof uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes generated by the Company which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have recorded $90 millionin 2023 and $69 million in 2022 for valuation allowances, $69 million of which offset our California R&D tax credit carryfoward, and $15 million of which relates to our US Foreign Tax Credit Carryforward, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California R&D & Foreign tax credits into the foreseeable future. On January 1, 2020, we transferred certain of our intellectual property among our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets of $157 million. The recognition of deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers of intellectual property required us to make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of such intellectual property. Significant assumptions in valuing the intellectual property include, but are not limited to, internal revenue and expense forecasts, and the discount rate. The sustainability of our future tax benefits is dependent upon the acceptance of these valuation estimates and assumptions by the taxing authorities. 42 Table of Contents Stock-based Compensation We issue service-based and performance-based restricted share units. We measure compensation cost for service-based restricted share unit awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period. Our performance-based restricted share units vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned pursuant to our performance-based restricted share unit awards will vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of our performance-based restricted share awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to our performance-based restricted share unit awards could differ from our current expectations. We account for forfeitures for both service-based and performance-based restricted share units as they occur instead of estimating forfeitures at the time of grant and revising those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from our estimates. Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. For 2023, the Company performed a quantitative impairment test. In this test, the Company compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the Company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill and determined that no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was necessary. Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The Companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2023, a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $7 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $5 million. 43 Table of Contents RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in "Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference.