Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Second Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the second quarter of 2015 : 16 Table of Contents Total revenue was $623 million for the second quarter of 2015 , down from the second quarter of 2014 , with an underlying 15% decrease in product revenue and a 2% decrease in services revenue. Gross margin decreased to 52.5% in the second quarter of 2015 down from 54.9% in the second quarter of 2014 , driven by lower product and services gross margin. Operating loss was $262 million in the second quarter of 2015 , compared to operating income of $133 million in the second quarter of 2014 , driven by the impairment of goodwill, lower product and consulting revenue, and gross margin. Net loss in the second quarter of 2015 was $265 million , compared to net income of $96 million in the second quarter of 2014 . The operating results include a goodwill impairment of $340 million for the marketing applications business. Strategic Overview Teradata helps companies achieve competitive advantage and win in their markets by empowering them to become data-driven businesses capable of exploiting data for insight and value. With Teradatas industry-leading analytic data platforms for data warehousing and big data analytics, marketing applications and proven consulting expertise, companies can become more competitive by leveraging data insights to increase revenue, reduce costs, improve business processes, enhance customer relationships, improve their marketing and drive innovation. We continue to focus on the following key initiatives to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of these market opportunities. Be the trusted advisor for enabling data-driven business and continue investing in business and technical consulting via organic growth and targeted strategic acquisitions; Invest to expand our leading Unified Data Architecture, data warehouse software and platform family, big data discovery platforms and Hadoop -based data management platforms to address multiple market segments through internal development and targeted strategic acquisitions; Accelerate development for our marketing applications' solutions by investing in high-growth opportunities in our digital marketing cloud and marketing analytics, and adding to capabilities through targeted acquisitions; Offer alternatives to make it easier for customers to buy Teradata, and therefore enhance our ability to broaden the market opportunity for Teradata's data and analytics business; Deliver our solutions via the cloud (as a service) or on-premises with offerings that support applications as a service, data warehousing as a service, discovery analytics as a service and data management as a service; Continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage; and Continue to seek opportunities to expand our sales resources and reach, in both of our data analytics and marketing applications businesses. Future Trends We believe that demand for Teradata's data and analytics offerings continues to be strong due to our market leading capabilities as well as the continued growth of data volumes and types of data, the scale and complexity of business requirements, and the growing use of new data elements and more analytics over time. The adoption by customers of a broader set of analytics including predictive analytics, behavioral analytics, location analytics, connection analytics, and many others is driving more applications, usage and capacity. This increased breadth of analytics also drives the need for an overall architecture to manage an increasingly complex analytics environment. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership in analytic data platforms, big data analytics, and Unified Data Architecture positions us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Since mid-2012, Teradata has seen a change in customers buying patterns, particularly in the Americas region, with respect to large capital investments and related services due to capital constraints, short-term investment priorities and lower cost alternatives. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenge for future revenue growth relates to pressures on large capital expenditures. We believe that a number of factors are contributing to a slowdown in our data and analytics revenue growth, including: 17 Table of Contents information technology budget constraints; prior investments made by several of our existing customers to build out their Teradata integrated data warehousing ("IDW") environments; a current focus of investments in their analytical ecosystems which have lower average selling prices than IDW environments; and to a lesser degree the transfer of some IDW workloads to other platforms in the ecosystem. In addition, as we broaden our product portfolio and market reach, we are seeing smaller deal sizes and more revenue derived from our appliances, which is contributing to some extent to lower product gross margins. As a result, we are evaluating alternatives to make it easier for customers to buy Teradata and therefore enhance our ability to broaden the market for Teradata's data and analytics business. Overall, we believe that IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems, and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems (through growth in IDW and Teradata big data analytics) as well as the addition of new customers. Although we did not experience significant changes related to competitive and/or pricing trends for our analytic data platforms in the quarter ended June 30, 2015, there is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could occur in the future as, among other things, major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top priority in companies and lower-cost, but less-sophisticated, alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. These alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads or provide a Unified Data Architecture to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas offerings. As described above, we continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we will continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In our marketing applications business, we believe that demand for our integrated marketing solutions is likely to increase as marketing continues to be transformed by the increased usage of data and analytics to understand and optimize the marketing process and its impact on consumers. In addition, the increased usage of digital marketing channels is increasing the usage of big data in marketing. We believe that Teradatas expertise in data and analytics differentiates the products and services offered by the marketing applications division. Our marketing applications are offered in the cloud as software as a service or on-premises and include solutions for marketing resource management, omni-channel marketing, digital marketing, and marketing analytics that enable our customers to implement their data-driven marketing strategies with agility and efficiency. We have been investing in a transformation to become a cloud-based solution provider for omni-channel marketing and other strategic marketing functions that includes product enhancements and expanded software as a service offerings in our Digital Marketing Cloud. We believe these investments in digital data and analytics, services based architecture, and user experience will help drive future revenue growth as will our refined go-to-market approach to penetrate new customer segments while still addressing the Teradata customer base. However, we expect to continue to be challenged by, among other things, strong competition in the market as existing competitors build out their marketing offerings through considerable investments and new smaller players enter the market looking to take advantage of this transformation in marketing. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates given that a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Based on currency rates as of July 31, 2015, Teradata is expecting approximately six percentage points of adverse impact from currency translation on our full-year 2015 reported revenue growth rate and a corresponding currency impact on our profitability. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2014 Revenue % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Product revenue $ 256 41.1 % $ 300 44.4 % Service revenue 367 58.9 % 376 55.6 % Total revenue $ 623 100 % $ 676 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $53 million or 8% in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 6% adverse impact on revenue in the quarter. Product revenue decreased 15% in the second quarter of 2015 from the prior-year period primarily due to Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"). Services revenue decreased 2% in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 4% decrease in consulting revenue. Maintenance revenue was flat in the second quarter of 2015 versus prior year. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 163 63.7 % $ 195 65.0 % Service gross margin 164 44.7 % 176 46.8 % Total gross margin $ 327 52.5 % $ 371 54.9 % Product gross margin decline was driven by foreign currency impact and by a similar amount of fixed costs on a 15% product revenue decline. This was partially offset by improved deal mix. Services gross margin decline was driven by lower professional services rates as a result of increased work in process, lower utilization, and the investments we are making in our marketing applications and Teradata cloud capabilities, partially offset by a mix of higher margin customer services revenue. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 190 30.5 % $ 188 27.8 % Research and development expenses 59 9.5 % 50 7.4 % Impairment of goodwill 340 54.6 % % Total operating expenses $ 589 94.5 % $ 238 35.2 % The increase in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense of $2 million was a result of strategic investments in demand creation headcount and marketing programs partially offset by foreign currency movement. Research and Development ("R&D") expenses increased $9 million due to additional investment in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, which included R&D expense associated with our recent acquisitions. R&D expense also includes a $1 million decrease in capitalized software as compared to the prior year. During the second quarter, the Company determined that indicators were present in the marketing applications reporting units which would suggest the fair value of the reporting units may have declined below the carrying value. This decline was primarily due to lower than forecasted revenue and profitability levels for 2015 and future periods. The lower projected operating results reflect further review and analysis of the marketing applications business performed following the recent creation of the business unit as a separate business unit as announced at the end of the first quarter of 2015. Based on our preliminary analysis, the implied fair value of goodwill was 19 Table of Contents substantially lower than the carrying value of goodwill for the marketing applications reporting units. As a result, the Company recorded an estimate of $340 million for the goodwill impairment charge during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. As a result of the goodwill impairment charge, the remaining carrying value of goodwill is $246 million for the marketing applications reporting units as of June 30, 2015. See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for further discussion. The determination of whether or not goodwill is impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions underlying the approaches used to determine the estimated fair value of our reporting units. The Company believes that assumptions and rates used in the impairment assessment are reasonable. However, these assumptions are judgmental and variations in any assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value. The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be a probable indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. Other Income (Expense), net In millions 2015 2014 Gain (loss) on securities $ 15 $ (1 ) Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (2 ) (1 ) Other (1 ) Other income (expense), net $ 13 $ (1 ) Other income in the second quarter of 2015 arose primarily from a $15 million gain on the sale of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the United States and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2015 to be approximately 230%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2015 and the $78 million discrete tax impact (or 205% impact to our effective rate) resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment, of which $318 million is related to non-deductible goodwill. This estimate also assumes that the U.S. Federal Research and Development Tax Credit (US R&D Tax Credit), which expired on December 31, 2014, will be retroactively reinstated sometime during 2015. If the credit is not reinstated during 2015, we estimate our tax expense will increase by approximately $3 million. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 11%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the United States. 20 Table of Contents The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014 were as follows: 2015 2014 Effective tax rate (6.4 )% 27.3 % For the three months ended June 30, 2015, the effective tax rate includes a $78 million discrete tax impact resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment, of which $318 million is related to non-deductible goodwill. There were no material discrete tax items for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The difference in the effective tax rate period over period was primarily driven by the $78 million discrete tax impact from the goodwill impairment recorded in the second quarter of 2015. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2015, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata now manages its business in two divisions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) data and analytics, and (2) marketing applications. This change will enable each division to be more sharply focused on rapidly addressing the dynamics of each market, and on bringing the best solutions to our customers. For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended June 30 : % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Segment revenue Data and Analytics $ 575 92.3 % $ 623 92.2 % Marketing Applications 48 7.7 % 53 7.8 % Total segment revenue $ 623 100 % $ 676 100 % Segment gross margin Data and Analytics $ 318 55.3 % $ 355 57.0 % Marketing Applications 20 41.7 % 24 45.3 % Total segment gross margin $ 338 54.3 % $ 379 56.1 % Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 8% in the second quarter of 2015 from the second quarter of 2014 , which included a 7% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Americas revenue was down 1%, which included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. International revenue declined 17%, primarily due to EMEA, and included a 12% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins were down from second quarter of 2014 driven by both product and services gross margins. The product gross margin decline was driven by foreign currency impact and by a similar amount of fixed costs on a 15% decline in product revenue. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 9% in the second quarter of 2015 from the second quarter of 2014 . The revenue decrease included a 6% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease is primarily driven by investments in the cloud business as well as lower professional services 21 Table of Contents margins, which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market and drive long-term growth in this business. Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 Revenue % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Product revenue $ 497 41.2 % $ 573 43.9 % Service revenue 708 58.8 % 731 56.1 % Total revenue $ 1,205 100 % $ 1,304 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $99 million or 8% during the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2014. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 6% adverse impact on revenue in the first six months of 2015. Product revenue decreased 13% in the first half of 2015 from the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in large capital expenditures and foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 5% adverse impact on product revenue the first half of the year. Services revenue decreased 3% in the first half of 2015 compared to the prior-year period. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 7% adverse impact on services revenue in the first six months of 2015 and maintenance revenue was up 1%. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 295 59.4 % $ 376 65.6 % Service gross margin 309 43.6 % 328 44.9 % Total gross margin $ 604 50.1 % $ 704 54.0 % The decrease in product gross margin was caused by the high mix of hardware versus software deals, which was driven by a few large transactions in the first half of 2015. Product gross margins were also negatively impacted by foreign currency, a lower mix of our integrated data warehousing products, and a reduction in product volume. Services gross margin was positively impacted by the increased mix of higher margin maintenance revenue. This was more than offset by a decline in consulting services margins primarily due to the timing of work in process and the investments we are making in our marketing applications and Teradata cloud capabilities. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 374 31.0 % $ 376 28.8 % Research and development expenses 122 10.1 % 106 8.1 % Impairment of goodwill 340 28.2 % % Total operating expenses $ 836 69.4 % $ 482 37.0 % The decrease in SG&A expense of $2 million is a result of the change in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by investments in demand creation resulting from our strategic investment initiatives. R&D expenses increased 15% due to additional investments in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, which includes R&D expense associated with our recent acquisitions. The increase in R&D expense was also caused by a decrease in capitalized software of $7 million as compared to the prior year. 22 Table of Contents During the second quarter, the Company determined that indicators were present in the marketing applications reporting units which would suggest the fair value of the reporting units may have declined below the carrying value. This decline was primarily due to lower than forecasted revenue and profitability levels for 2015 and future periods. The lower projected operating results reflect further review and analysis of the marketing applications business performed following the recent creation of the business as a separate business as announced at the end of the first quarter of 2015 . Based on our preliminary analysis, the implied fair value of goodwill was substantially lower than the carrying value of goodwill for the marketing applications reporting units. As a result, the Company recorded an estimate of $340 million for the goodwill impairment charge during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. As a result of the goodwill impairment charge, the remaining carrying value of goodwill is $246 million for the marketing applications reporting units as of June 30, 2015. See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for further discussion. The determination of whether or not goodwill is impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions underlying the approaches used to determine the estimated fair value of our reporting units. The Company believes that assumptions and rates used in the impairment assessment are reasonable. However, these assumptions are judgmental and variations in any assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value. The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be a probable indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. Other Income (Expense), net In millions 2015 2014 Gain (loss) on securities $ 15 $ (9 ) Interest income 2 2 Interest expense (3 ) (2 ) Other (1 ) 1 Other income (expense), net $ 13 $ (8 ) Other income in the first six months of 2015 arose primarily from a $15 million gain on the sale of an equity investment. Other expense for the first six months of 2014 included a $9 million impairment in the carrying value of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014 were as follows: 2015 2014 Effective tax rate (11.0 )% 27.6 % For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the effective tax rate includes a $78 million discrete tax impact reflected in the second quarter resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment, of which $318 million is related to non-deductible goodwill. There were no material discrete tax items for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The difference in the effective tax rate period over period was primarily driven by the $78 million discrete tax impact from the goodwill impairment recorded in the second quarter of 2015. 23 Table of Contents Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the six months ended June 30 : % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Segment revenue Data and Analytics $ 1,111 92.2 % $ 1,200 92.0 % Marketing Applications 94 7.8 % 104 8.0 % Total segment revenue $ 1,205 100 % $ 1,304 100 % Segment gross margin Data and Analytics $ 587 52.8 % $ 677 56.4 % Marketing Applications 38 40.4 % 47 45.2 % Total segment gross margin $ 625 51.9 % $ 724 55.5 % Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 7% in the six months ended June 30, 2015 from the six months ended June 30, 2014 , which included a 5% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Americas revenue was down 4% primarily driven by a decrease in large capital expenditure transactions. International revenue was down 12%, which included a 12% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins were down in the first half of 2015 compared to the first half of the prior year due to the high mix of hardware versus software deals in the first quarter of 2015 and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 10% in the first six months of 2015 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2014. The revenue decrease included a 7% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease is primarily driven by investments in the cloud business as well as lower professional services margins, which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market and drive long-term growth in this business. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $179 million in the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2014 . The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to timing of collections of receivables and lower net income. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. 24 Table of Contents The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Six Months Ended June 30, In millions 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 302 $ 481 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (29 ) (21 ) Additions to capitalized software (30 ) (37 ) Free cash flow $ 243 $ 423 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These activities included a $15 million gain on investment in the six months ended June 30, 2015 as compared to a $9 million loss on investments in the six months ended June 30, 2014. Teradatas financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, payments on credit facility borrowings, and proceeds from long-term debt. The Company purchased 7 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $42.90 million in the six months ended June 30, 2015 and 4.5 million shares at an average price per share of $41.91 million in the six months ended June 30, 2014 . The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of June 30, 2015 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $412 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $14 million for both the six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Additionally, during the six months ended June 30, 2015 , the Company repaid $220 million against the principle balance of its revolving credit facility, which is discussed further below. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $837 million as of June 30, 2015 and $785 million as of December 31, 2014 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $84 million as of June 30, 2015 and $49 million as of December 31, 2014 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of June 30, 2015 , we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Management believes current cash, Company cash flows from operations and its $400 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2014 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term debt. On March 25, 2015, Teradata replaced its existing five -year, $300 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 25 Table of Contents 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one -year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of June 30, 2015 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings on the Credit Facility, and was in compliance with all covenants. Also on March 25, 2015 , Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $600 million five -year term loan, the proceeds of which were used to pay off the remaining $247 million of principal on its existing term loan, pay off the $220 million outstanding balance on the prior credit facility, and to fund share repurchases. The $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which will commence on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of June 30, 2015 , the term loan principal outstanding was $600 million and carried an interest rate of 1.4375% . The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of June 30, 2015 . Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2014 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2014 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the six months ended June 30, 2015 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies, except as discussed below. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company determined that indicators were present in the marketing applications reporting units which would suggest the fair value of the reporting units may have declined below the carrying value. This decline was primarily due to lower than forecasted revenue and profitability levels for 2015 and future periods. The lower projected operating results reflect an ongoing review of the marketing applications business performed by new leadership announced at the end of the first quarter of 2015. The interim goodwill impairment analysis performed in the second quarter of 2015 resulted in a revision of the Companys previous estimates performed in the fourth quarter of 2014 and first quarter of 2015 (in connection with the change in segment reporting), which resulted in a goodwill impairment of $340 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The remaining amount of goodwill allocated to these reporting units was $246 million at June 30, 2015. See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for further discussion. 26 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.