Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Companys definitive proxy statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III. PART I Item 1. Business General IKONICS Corporation (IKONICS or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota as Chroma-Glo, Inc. in 1952 and changed its name to The Chromaline Corporation in 1982. In December 2002, the Company changed its name to IKONICS Corporation. The Companys traditional business has been the development, manufacture and selling of photosensitive liquids (emulsions) and films for the screen printing and awards and recognition industries. These sales have been augmented with inkjet receptive films, ancillary chemicals and related equipment to provide a full line of products and services to its customers. These products are sold worldwide through distributors. In 2006, the Company began a major effort to diversify and expand its business to industrial markets. These efforts now include the Companys Micro-Machining business unit, which uses the Companys proprietary and patent applied for photoresist film for the abrasive etching of silicon wafers, glass wafers, industrial ceramics and composite materials. The customer base for Micro-Machining is primarily the electronics and aerospace industries. Based on its expertise in ultraviolet curable fluids and inkjet receptive substrates, the Company has also developed a patented digital texturing technology (DTX) for putting patterns and textures into 1 steel molds for the plastic injection molding industry. The ultimate original equipment manufacturer (OEM) for the Companys DTX technology is primarily the automotive industry. The Company offers a suite of products to the mold making industry. Industrial inkjet printers, which are integral to the DTX system, are manufactured and sold by strategic partners. In 2010, a first generation DTX printer was delivered and subsequently sold to a customer beta site. In January 2011, a second generation printer was sold to a North American mold maker. The Companys business plan is to sell consumable fluids and transfer films. For most markets these sales are direct to the mold maker, except in Japan and Southeast Asia, where the Company has a strong distributor. Products The Company has four primary technology platforms: Ultraviolet (UV) chemistry, film coating and construction, technical abrasive etching, and industrial inkjet printing. The Companys traditional products and new initiatives are based on these platforms and their combinations. The Companys Chromaline branded products for the screen printing industry and Ikonics Imaging products for the awards and recognition market are based on UV chemistry and film coating and construction capabilities; the Micro-Machining offering is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction and technical abrasive etching capabilities; DTX is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction, and industrial inkjet printing. There is overlap and synergy in the market between the Chromaline, Ikonics Imaging, Micro-Machining and DTX product offerings, and the Company offers ancillary products, including equipment and software, to provide customers with a total solution. The Company considers this combination of core technologies and product offering to be unique. Distribution The Company currently has approximately 200 domestic and international distributors for its Chromaline and ImageMate screen printing emulsions and films. The Companys abrasive etching products are sold directly to end users in the awards and recognition market under the Ikonics Imaging brand. Micro-Machining products are sold either directly to users or the Company offers Micro-Machining as a service. DTX is sold to users as a system, with strategic partners providing the specialized industrial inkjet printers and the Company selling the consumable inks and transfer films. DTX sales are both direct to users and through distribution. The Company markets and sells its products through magazine advertising, trade shows and the internet. The Company has a diverse customer base both domestically and abroad and does not depend on one or a few customers for a material portion of its revenues. In 2011 and 2010, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales. Quality Control in Manufacturing In March 1994, IKONICS became the first firm in northern Minnesota to receive ISO 9001 certification. ISO 9000 is a series of worldwide standards issued by the International Organization for Standardization that provide a framework for quality assurance. ISO 9001 is the most comprehensive standard of the ISO 9000 series. The Company has been recertified every three years beginning in 1997. IKONICS quality function goal is to train all employees properly in both their work and in the importance of their work. Internal records of quality, including related graphs and tables, are reviewed regularly and discussions are held among management and employees regarding how improvements might be realized. The Company has rigorous materials selection procedures and also uses testing procedures to assure its products meet quality standards. Research and Development and Intellectual Property The Company spent 3.1% of sales ($512,000) on research and development in 2011 and 4.2% of sales ($696,000) in 2010. In its research program, IKONICS has developed ultraviolet light-sensitive chemistries used in the manufacture of screen print stencils, photoresists for abrasive etching and ink jet fluids and ink jet receptive films. The Company has a number of patents and patent applications on these chemistries and applications. There can be no assurance that any patent granted to the Company will provide adequate protection to the Companys intellectual property. Within the Company, steps are taken to protect the Companys trade secrets, including physical security, confidentiality and non-competition agreements with employees, non-disclosure agreements where applicable, and confidentiality agreements with vendors. Over the past few years, the Company has directed a larger portion of it research and development resources towards industrial inkjettable fluids and ink jet receptive substrates. The Company has also developed proprietary products and techniques for the etching of electronic wafers, industrial ceramics and composite materials. 2 In addition to its patents, the Company has various trademarks including the IKONICS, Chromaline, PhotoBrasive, AccuArt, Nichols, imagemate and DTX trademarks. Raw Materials The primary raw materials used by IKONICS in its production are photopolymers, polyester films, polyvinylacetates, polyvinylalcohols and water. The Companys purchasing staff leads in the identification of both domestic and foreign sources for raw materials and negotiates price and terms for all domestic and foreign markets. IKONICS involvement in foreign markets has given it the opportunity to become a global buyer of raw materials at lower overall cost. The Company has a number of suppliers for its operations. Some suppliers provide a significant amount of key raw materials to the Company, but the Company believes alternative sources are available for most materials. For those raw materials where an alternative source is not readily available, the Company is developing contingency raw material replacement plans. To date, there have been no significant shortages of raw materials. The Company believes it has good supplier relations. Competition The Company competes in its markets based on product development capability, quality, reliability, availability, technical support and price. Though the screen printing market is much larger than the awards and recognition market, IKONICS commands significantly more market share in the latter. IKONICS has two primary competitors in its screen printing film business. They are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources than the Company in many areas. The Company has numerous competitors in the market for screen print emulsions many of whom are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources. The market for the Companys abrasive etching products in the awards and recognition market has one significant competitor. IKONICS considers itself to be the leader in this market. There are significant competitors, using different technologies in the new markets being entered by the Company. The primary competition for Micro-Machining is from other machining methods, most of which are well established. The primary competition for DTX comes from old, well-established technologies based on wax and screen printing and new competition from lasers. Government Regulation The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local industrial laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of material into the environment and protection of the environment. The governmental authorities primarily responsible for regulating the Companys environmental compliance are the Environmental Protection Agency, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Western Lake Superior Sanitary District. Failure to comply with the laws promulgated by these authorities may result in monetary sanctions, liability for environmental clean-up and other equitable remedies. To maintain compliance, the Company may make occasional changes in its waste generation and disposal procedures. These laws and regulations have not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures or competitive position of the Company. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with the various federal, state and local regulations that apply to its current operations. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. The Company also is subject to regulations from foreign governments covering the importation of certain chemicals. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with these regulations that apply to its current products. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. 3 Employees As of February 23, 2012, the Company had approximately 72 full-time employees, 68 of whom are located at the Companys two facilities in Duluth, Minnesota and five of whom are outside technical sales representatives in various locations in America. None of the Companys employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and the Company believes that its employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors Not Applicable Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Property The Company primarily conducts its operations in Duluth, Minnesota. The administrative, sales, research and development, quality and most of the manufacturing activities are housed in a 60,000 square-foot, four-story building, including a basement level. The building is approximately seventy years old and has been maintained in good condition. The Company also utilizes a 5,625 square-foot warehouse adjacent to the existing plant building that was constructed in 1997. These facilities are owned by the Company with no existing liens or leases. The Company owns an 11 acre property and with a 35,000 square foot manufacturing and warehouse facility. The facility accommodates the Companys new business initiatives and growth plans along with some manufacturing activities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol IKNX. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the high and low sales prices for the Companys Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market for the periods indicated. High Low Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011: First Quarter $ 8.94 $ 6.90 Second Quarter 8.75 7.46 Third Quarter 8.50 7.25 Fourth Quarter 8.77 7.30 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2010: First Quarter $ 7.16 $ 6.30 Second Quarter 7.50 6.52 Third Quarter 7.32 6.40 Fourth Quarter 8.00 6.91 As of February 23, 2012, the Company had approximately 633 shareholders. The Company has never declared or paid any dividends on its Common Stock. 4 In prior years, the Companys board of directors had publicly announced the authorization of the Company to repurchase 250,000 shares of common stock. A total of 217,239 shares have been repurchased under this program including 270 shares repurchased during 2011. The plan allows for an additional 32,761 shares to be repurchased and does not have an expiration date. Issuer Purchases of Equity Shares (a) Total Number of Shares Purchased (b) Average Price Paid per Share (c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (d) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under The Plans or Programs October 1, 2011 through October 31, 2011 32,761 November 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011 $ 32,761 December 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 32,761 $ 32,761 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not applicable Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations and financial condition during 2011 and 2010 and should be read in connection with the Companys audited financial statements and notes thereto for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, included herein. Factors that May Affect Future Results Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those summarized below, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include those identified below. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity market conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products or increased operating expenses or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. 5 The Companys plans to continue to invest in research and development efforts, expedite internal product development and invest in technological alliances, as well as the expected focus and results of such investments These plans and expectations may be impacted by general market conditions, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, delays in the development of new products, technological advances, the ability to find suitable and willing technology partners or other changes in competitive or market conditions. The Companys belief as to future sources of sales growth and profitability, including from photo resist film, export markets and other products the Company sells The sources of future increases to the Companys sales and profitability, and the Companys ability to increase sales or profitability at all, may be impacted by lack of market acceptance for the Companys products, adverse changes to the global economy and consumer confidence, the adequacy of the Companys intellectual property protections, the Companys ability to customize its products for new markets, the Companys ability to maintain the quality of its receivables while adding customers in new markets and the Companys ability to maintain its reputation for quality products. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results include the following: Accounts Receivable. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the accounts receivable balance are denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year end spot rate in accordance with FASB ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters. Inventory. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Income Taxes. At December 31, 2011, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $144,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $338,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of an impairment charge that occurred prior to 2010 as described below, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $323,000 as it is more likely that this asset will not be realized. The fully reserved $323,000 deferred tax asset related to the capital loss can be carried back two years and carried forward four years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets in not currently required. The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions under the provision of FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. At December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Company had no reserves for uncertain tax positions. The Company had recorded a liability of $27,000 related to an uncertain tax position which was eliminated during 2010. 6 Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within SAB 104 and FASB ASC 605 Revenue Recognition: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The customer has no rotation or price protection rights and the Company is not under a warranty obligation except for a minimal obligation related to six months of service on the DTX printer sold in 2010, which has since expired. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 Sales. The Companys net sales increased 1.6% in 2011 to a record $16.8 million compared to net sales of $16.5 million in 2010. Stronger sales in Asia and Latin America drove a 2.5% Export sales increase for 2011. These increases were partially offset by weaker European sales. IKONICS Imaging realized a 3.8% sales increase over 2010 due to increased film sales. In 2011, the Company determined that Micro-Machining and DTX financial information would not be included under the IKONICS Imaging segment. See Note 5 in the notes to the financial statements included in Item 8 hereto for a more detailed discussion on this transition. DTX and Micro-Machining sales were down 3.2% compared to last year. Sales in 2010 were favorably impacted by a DTX printer sale while no DTX printers were sold because the Companys printer suppliers were experiencing manufacturing difficulties with a second generation printer. Strong Micro-Machining sales partially offset the DTX sales shortfall. Domestic Chromaline sales were similar to last year as increased emulsion sales were offset by lower film sales. Gross Profit . Gross profit in 2011 was $6.7 million, or 40.0% of sales, compared to $6.8 million, or 41.1% of sales in 2010. Domestic and Export gross profit percentage decreased by 4.7% and 4.3%, respectively, during 2011 compared to 2010. Raw material price increases along with a decrease in higher margin film sales have unfavorably affected the gross profit percentage for both Export and Domestic. Higher margin DTX and Mirco-Machining sales along with an increase in higher margin IKONICS Imaging film sales partially offset the Export and Domestic gross margin decreases. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $5.2 million, or 30.8% of sales, in 2011 compared to $4.6 million, or 27.7% of sales in 2010. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects higher personnel, promotion and consulting costs related to supporting the Companys Micro-Machining and DTX initiatives along with increased sales efforts in awards and recognition market. Approximately $170,000 of the higher personnel expenses are related to resources that were previously assigned to research and development, but have been reassigned to focus exclusively on Micro-Machining and DTX. 7 Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses in 2011 were $512,000, or 3.1% of sales, versus $696,000, or 4.2% of sales, in 2010. The decrease is due to lower staffing levels due to the reassignment of certain personnel to the Companys Micro-Machining and DTX initiatives. Additionally, legal and patent related expenses were lower in 2011 along with research related production trials. Interest Income. The Company earned $17,300 of interest income in 2011 compared to $19,700 in 2010. The interest earned in 2011 and 2010 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consist of fully insured certificates of deposit with remaining maturities ranging from 1 to 12 months. Income Taxes. During 2011, the Company realized income tax expense of $345,000, or an effective rate of 33.1%, compared to income tax expense of $440,000, or an effective rate of 28.3% in 2010. The income tax provision for 2011 and 2010 differs from the expected tax expense due to the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction and federal and state credits for research and development. Additionally, the effective tax rate in 2010 was impacted by derecognizing a $27,000 liability for unrecognized tax benefits relating to a tax year where the statute of limitations expired during the year. During 2010, the Company also recorded an out-of-period tax benefit adjustment of $15,000 relating to prior year tax credits as well as the receipt of interest of approximately $13,000 related to Minnesota state income tax returns. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash was $1,867,000 and $1,291,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition to its cash, the Company also held $1,835,000 of short term investments as of December 31, 2011 and $2,218,000 of short-term investments as of December 31, 2010. The Company generated $794,000 in cash from operating activities during 2011, compared to generating $1,601,000 of cash from operating activities in 2010. Cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of the net income adjusted for non-cash depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During 2011, trade receivables increased by $298,000. The increase in receivables was driven by increased Export sales which have longer payment terms and slightly slower collections than Domestic sales. Inventory levels increased $264,000 due to higher levels of raw materials. The raw materials increase is related to the timing of the delivery of large raw material shipments at year end and higher raw material costs. The Company also requires increased levels of raw materials to support new products. The $19,000 increase in prepaid expenses and other assets is related to the timing of insurance payments for 2012. Accounts payable increased $108,000 due to of the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors while accrued liabilities decreased $39,000 due to the timing of the Companys payroll. Income taxes payable decreased $7,000 and the Companys income tax receivable increased $59,000 due to timing of estimated 2011 tax payments compared to the calculated 2011 tax liability. During 2011, investing activities used $289,000. The Companys purchases of property and equipment for the year were $622,000. These purchases were mainly for equipment to upgrade the capabilities of the Companys DTX and Micro-Machining operations, equipment to improve product quality and capacity, mandatory elevator improvements, one vehicle and hardware to upgrade the Companys computer network. Also during 2011, the Company incurred $60,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $2,446,000 in twelve fully insured certificates of deposits during 2011. Fourteen certificates of deposit totaling $2,829,000 matured during 2011. During 2010, investing activities used $1,637,000. The Company invested $2,621,000 in fully insured certificates of deposits with six $200,000 certificates of deposit maturing during 2010. Purchases of property and equipment totaled $189,000. These capital expenditures were mainly for production equipment and three vehicles for sales persons. The Company received $22,000 from vehicle and equipment sales during 2010. Also during 2010, the Company incurred $54,000 in patent application costs. 8 During 2011, the Company received $71,000 from financing activities as the Company received $73,000 from the issuance of 11,500 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options. The Company used $2,100 in financing activities during 2011 to repurchase 270 shares of its own stock. During 2010, the Company received $23,000 from financing activities. The Company received $37,000 from the issuance of 8,500 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options and the Company repurchased 2,200 shares of it own stock for $15,000. A bank line of credit exists providing for borrowings of up to $1,250,000. The line of credit term runs from October 31, 2011 to October 30, 2012. The Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. The line of credit is collateralized by trade receivables and inventory and bears interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during 2011 and 2010 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures In 2011, the Company had $622,000 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2011 were for equipment to upgrade the capabilities of the Companys DTX and Micro-Machining operations, equipment to improve product quality and capacity, mandatory elevator improvements, one vehicle and hardware to upgrade the Companys computer network. In addition, the Company transferred $227,000 of DTX equipment from inventory to equipment during the year. The DTX equipment was purchased for inventory in 2010. Instead of offering the DTX equipment for sale, the Company decided it would be necessary to keep the equipment for product testing and customer demonstrations. In 2010, the Company had $189,000 in capital expenditures. These capital expenditures were mainly for production equipment and three vehicles for sales persons. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2012 of approximately $550,000 and includes expenditures for manufacturing equipment upgrades and capacity increases and vehicles for sales personnel. It also includes $150,000 in expenditures to complete the mandatory elevator upgrades and an equipment upgrade project which were both started in 2011. These commitments are expected to be funded with cash generated from operating activities. International Activity The Company markets its products in numerous countries in all regions of the world, including North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. The Companys 2011 foreign sales of $5,556,000 were approximately 33.1% of total sales, compared to the 2010 foreign sales of $5,421,000, which were 32.8% of total sales. The increase in foreign sales in 2011 was primarily due to growth of 3.3% Asia and Latin America while 2011 European sales were down 7.5% compared to last year. The Company is exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, and economic conditions inherent in foreign operations, and the Companys results of operations are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of December 31, 2011. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2011 or 2010. 9 Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average over 3%- 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its DTX and Micro-Machining programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area and expedite internal product development as well as form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. In 2011, the Company made substantial progress on its new Micro-Machining business initiatives. During the year, Micro-Machining sales grew, became profitable and manufacturing capacity was increased. Micro-Machining is also in the process of being qualified for production by three major aerospace companies. Although the sales cycle with these customers is long, once specified as a process or component, the life of the business can be very long term. The recognition by the industry of the Companys unique ability to machine composite materials is coinciding with increasing demand for composite materials by the aerospace industry. In addition, the Company made substantial progress in 2011 on its DTX business initiatives. A DTX first generation printer was sold to a customer beta site in the fourth quarter of 2010; it is performing to expectations and generating sales for the Company of related consumables. In January 2012, the Company placed a second generation DTX printer with a North America mold maker and has been informed by its DTX printer manufacturing partner, Colour Scanner Technology GMBH, of other pending orders. In February of 2012, the Company announced a partnership and distribution agreement with Tri-D Technology to provide ExacFlat software for placing textures on 3D molds. The Company believes, that coupled with DTX, this technology provides the mold maker with the fastest, most accurate and cost effective way to apply decorative features to 3D mold. The Company was also awarded a European patent on its DTX technology in 2010 and a U. S. patent in 2012. Additional U. S. and European patent applications, as well as a Japanese patent application, are currently being examined by the respective patent offices. In 2011, the Companys traditional domestic screen print stencil business was flat. The Company anticipates growth in this area in 2012 with an improving economy and new sales efforts. Sales to the awards and recognition market of the Companys sandblast resist films rebounded in 2011 with the improving economy, and the Company expects that trend to continue in 2012. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements None