Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2016 : Total revenue was $545 million for the first quarter of 2016 , down from the first quarter of 2015 , with an underlying 20% decrease in product revenue and a 3% increase in services revenue. Gross margin increased to 49.4% in the first quarter of 2016 up from 47.6% in the first quarter of 2015 , driven by higher product and services gross margin. Operating loss was $42 million in the first quarter of 2016 , compared to operating income of $30 million in the first quarter of 2015 , driven by an impairment loss on goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets. Net loss in the first quarter of 2016 was $46 million , compared to net income of $22 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Strategic Overview Teradata empowers data-driven companies to achieve competitive advantage and win in their markets by exploiting data for insight and value. With Teradatas industry-leading analytic data solutions and proven consulting experience and expertise, companies can become more competitive by leveraging insights from integrated data to, among other things, increase revenue and profitability, improve effectiveness, drive innovation, enhance customer relationships, improve business processes and reduce costs. Our strategy is centered on providing the worlds best data solutions to drive competitive advantage for our customers, by focusing on these critical areas: Deliver our solutions on-premises or via the cloud (as a service), offering customers choice in how they deploy a Teradata analytics environment and leverage the power of our solutions. These flexible delivery options are designed to extend our market opportunity. Expand our analytical ecosystem offerings, including our big data portfolio, which helps organizations architect, integrate data into, and manage their analytic environment. We also focus on enhancing and extending value-added services, including big data consulting, ecosystem architecture consulting and managed services across customers' complex analytical ecosystems. Building analytic solutions and providing consulting that creates actionable insights and/or automates decisions that deliver high impact return on investment, by packaging replicable analytical use cases, based on learnings from our top customers, many of which are the leaders and innovators in analytics. Optimize our go-to-market approach to improve effectiveness in demand creation and address new and expanded market opportunities, such as with our cloud offerings. Continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage. We believe that these strategic areas will best position us to be our customers trusted advisor and partner of choice for architecting, implementing, and managing their analytic solutions. 18 Table of Contents Future Trends We believe that future demand for our analytic data platforms will increase due to high levels of data growth being driven by new types of data, such as big data and the internet of things, including: machine-generated data, sensor data, data from connected devices, social network data, internet text and search indexing, call detail records, genomics, biological research, medical records, seismic/exploration data, photography and video archives, and large scale e-commerce data. Analytic environments are becoming more complex to design and manage as there are increasing types of analytic tools and techniques, multiple data management systems both on-premises and in the cloud, varying service level requirements, and the growth and volume of data. This complexity drives the need for an overall architecture to manage such environments. Demand for value-added services is growing as customers seek help with evolving their analytic architectures, rapidly deploying their analytic architectural solutions, and increasingly look to purchase analytic capabilities as a service". Overall, analytics are growing in importance as global businesses seek new means to drive business value from the ever-increasing amounts and types of data and as a result, we expect Teradatas leadership position and investments in strategic areas of focus to position us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Since mid-2012, we have seen a shift in the market and in customers buying patterns, with respect to large capital investments and related services. Currently, we believe that the greatest challenges for future revenue growth relate to pressures on large capital expenditures and the way customers want to purchase and deploy analytic technologies. We believe that a number of factors have contributed to the pressures on large capital expenditures and the resulting slowdown in our revenue growth, including: the evolving information technology market, as customers focus investments in their analytical ecosystems which have lower average selling prices than traditional on-premises integrated data warehouse ("IDW") environments and changing customer behavior as buying decisions are shifting from IT to business users. Overall, we believe that the IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for continued revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems (through growth in IDW, Teradata private and public cloud, Teradata big data analytics, and our value-added services and solutions) as well as the addition of new customers. Teradata has expanded our offerings as well as our pricing options to make it easier and to provide more flexibility for customers to buy and expand with Teradata including cloud offerings and subscription pricing. There is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could occur in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top focus and lower-cost alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads or provide a Unified Data Architecture to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas offerings. As the market continues to evolve, we could be challenged to generate revenue growth shorter term as customers purchase in smaller deal sizes, and we potentially shift from upfront perpetual licenses to recurring subscription models for both on-premises and cloud offerings. As described above, we continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and longer term will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. In addition, we will continue to optimize our go-to-market structure and rationalize our cost structure as we work to broaden our product and services portfolios and market reach. 19 Table of Contents As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 30, 2016, Teradata is expecting no additional impact from currency translation on our full year reported revenue growth rate. BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION During 2015, the Company announced a plan to realign Teradata's business by reducing its cost structure and focusing on the Company's core data and analytics business. In addition to exiting the marketing applications business, this plan is intended to lead to a comprehensive transformation of the Company that will place it on a trajectory of meaningful revenue growth, by building on our strengths in high performance data analytics and consulting services, advancing our technology leadership positions, and expanding our market opportunities. This transformation plan addresses the challenges of the analytical ecosystem, cloud, software-only, and open source. It also addresses customers changing behaviors in how they buy, consume, and deploy analytic solutions. Our broad-reaching transformation is intended to drive change in four key revenue generating areas and create a more diversified, stable, and predictable revenue stream: 1. On premises data warehouse - We plan to make it easier to buy, expand, and seamlessly upgrade data warehouses - through pricing options, software-only, and Teradata Labs innovation. We believe that we have a solid opportunity for revenue growth in this market by growing the portion of IT budgets our existing customers spend on Teradata solutions, and by penetrating the more than 75% of the Global 5000 that do not use Teradata. We expect that our recently announced Intelliflex platform architecture will provide more flexible configurations and seamless expansions of our customers IDW environments, and our software-only version of Teradata will also allow us to expand with both new and existing customers. 2. Cloud - We plan to make our data warehouse available on and across both Teradatas managed cloud and public cloud environments, which is intended to expand our data warehouse market opportunity in the Global 5000. Our existing managed cloud solution is now complemented by the release of our initial software-only version of Teradata on a public cloud during the first quarter of 2016, and we plan to make our fully scalable version of Teradata available on public clouds in early 2017. We are building new services for cloud migration as well as for design, implementation and management of cloud and hybrid cloud environments . 3. Analytical ecosystem - We plan to continue to add to our software and service offerings that focus on enabling customers to easily load and integrate data and to manage their analytical ecosystem through products such as Unity, QueryGrid, and Listener. These offerings help connect and manage the ecosystem including not only Teradata IDW environments, but also with Aster and Hadoop to help manage and extract value from the data. Additionally, the analytical ecosystem portfolio will become a foundation to enable hybrid cloud use cases . 4. Value-added services and solutions - We plan to provide analytic consulting and replicable analytic solutions including packaged service offers, use cases, and intellectual property. We believe we have a strong foundation for building repeatable solutions with our logical data models, business improvement opportunities, and analytic use cases we enable with our customers . We intend to expand our investments to systematically capture more of these use cases and intellectual property from engagements around the world and to package them for ease of delivery and implementation. We expect the mix of our revenues to shift toward cloud, analytical ecosystem, and value added analytic services over time, as these are fast growing markets. We believe this shift also will help increase our recurring revenue. Another central and critical element of Teradata's transformation plan is modifying our go-to-market approach to integrate with our four revenue generating initiatives. We have already begun taking steps to optimize our go-to-market approach for on-premises data warehouse and analytical ecosystem, and we are also exploring new ways to generate additional demand within the Global 5000. The Company is also engaged in a thorough review of its costs and is taking significant steps to rationalize its expense structure. This broad-based cost rationalization effort includes reducing Teradatas infrastructure costs as it transitions its focus solely to its data and analytics business, optimizes its go-to-market resources and approach, and prioritizes research and development projects based on revenue generation and profitability. 20 Table of Contents Although we believe the demand for our marketing applications solutions is likely to increase as marketing continues to be transformed by the increased usage of data and analytics, Teradata has concluded it is in the long-term best interests of the Company and its shareholders to exit the marketing applications business in order to exclusively focus on its data and analytics business. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Revenue % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product revenue $ 194 35.6 % $ 241 41.4 % Service revenue 351 64.4 % 341 58.6 % Total revenue $ 545 100 % $ 582 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $37 million or 6% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 2% adverse impact on revenue in the quarter. Product revenue decreased 20% in the first quarter of 2016 from the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in large capital expenditure transactions. Services revenue increased 3% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 4% increase in consulting revenue and a 2% increase in maintenance revenue from the prior period. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 116 59.8 % $ 132 54.8 % Service gross margin 153 43.6 % 145 42.5 % Total gross margin $ 269 49.4 % $ 277 47.6 % Product gross margin increase was driven by improved deal and product mix. The services gross margin increase was primarily driven by improved utilization. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 174 31.9 % $ 184 31.6 % Research and development expenses 57 10.5 % 63 10.8 % Impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets 80 14.7 % % Total operating expenses $ 311 57.1 % $ 247 42.4 % The decrease in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense of $10 million was primarily due to cost reduction initiatives. Research and Development ("R&D") expenses decreased $6 million due to cost reduction initiatives and software capitalization. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with an affiliate of Marlin Equity Partners to sell the marketing applications business for $90 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments based on, among other things, the amount of cash, debt and working capital in the business at the closing date. The Company performed a goodwill impairment analysis on the business to be disposed of based on the fair value as determined using the Asset Purchase Agreement. As a result of this analysis, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $ 57 million in the first quarter of 2016. 21 Table of Contents In addition, acquired intangible assets were reduced by $ 19 million to adjust the carrying amount of the disposal group's net assets and liabilities down to its fair value less cost to sell. The Company also recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to its corporate plane that was classified as held for sale. Other Expense, net In millions 2016 2015 Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (3 ) (1 ) Other (1 ) Other income, net $ (3 ) $ Other expense in the first quarter of 2016 arose primarily from $3 million in interest expense on long-term debt. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the United States and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2016 to be approximately 34.5%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2016 and the discrete tax impact to our effective rate resulting from the $57 million non-deductible goodwill impairment, which resulted in no tax benefit. This estimate also includes the estimated discrete tax impact that will occur upon the disposition of the Marketing Applications business, which is expected to close around the end of second quarter of 2016. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 12.5%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the United States. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Effective tax rate (2.2 )% 26.7 % For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the effective tax rate includes a material discrete tax item resulting from the $76 million impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles recorded in the first quarter, of which $57 million is related to non deductible goodwill. This results in income tax expense in Q1 2016 of $1 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $45 million, causing a negative tax rate of (2.2%). There were no material discrete tax items for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the tax impact of the goodwill impairment for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 22 Table of Contents Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2016, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata now manages its business under two geographic regions and the marketing applications division prior to its expected sale, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas Data and Analytics (North America and Latin America); (2) International Data and Analytics (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan); and (3) Marketing Applications. This change reflects the dynamics of each market, and how we bring solutions to our customers. For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended March 31 : % of % of In millions 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 295 54.1 % $ 336 57.8 % International Data and Analytics 216 39.6 % 208 35.7 % Total Data and Analytics 511 93.8 % 544 93.5 % Marketing Applications 34 6.2 % 38 6.5 % Total segment revenue $ 545 100 % $ 582 100 % Segment gross margin Americas Data and Analytics $ 164 55.6 % $ 179 53.3 % International Data and Analytics 97 44.9 % 93 44.7 % Total Data and Analytics 261 51.1 % 272 50.0 % Marketing Applications 17 50.0 % 15 39.5 % Total segment gross margin $ 278 51.0 % $ 287 49.3 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 12% in the first quarter of 2016 from the first quarter of 2015 , which included a 1% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue decline was driven by a decline in large capital expenditure transaction revenue in the first quarter of 2016 as compared to first quarter of 2015. Segment gross margins were up from first quarter of 2015 driven by increases in both product and services gross margins. Segment product gross margin was 59.7% in the first quarter of 2016 as compared to 52.8% in the first quarter of 2015. Improvement in the product gross margin was driven by improved deal and product mix. Service margins were flat. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 4% in the first quarter of 2016 from the first quarter of 2015 , which included a 3% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in the Europe and Asia Pacific regions in the first quarter of 2016 as compared to first quarter of 2015. Segment gross margins were flat as compared to the first quarter of 2015 . Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 11% in the first quarter of 2016 from the first quarter of 2015 . The revenue decrease included a 5% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The decline in revenue was driven by lower recurring revenues in the first quarter of 2016 as compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The overall segment gross margin increase is primarily driven by higher professional services margins. In the first quarter of 2015 the Company made investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market, this resulted in lower service margins in 2015. 23 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities increased by $29 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to changes in working capital. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, In millions 2016 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 251 $ 222 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (8 ) (17 ) Additions to capitalized software (18 ) (15 ) Free cash flow $ 225 $ 190 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These other investing activities included the additional release of funds from previous acquisitions in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . There were no other investing activities in the first quarter of 2015. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, payments on credit facility borrowings and long-term debt. The Company purchased 2.0 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $23.38 in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 6.3 million shares at an average price per share of $43.34 in the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of March 31, 2016 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $528 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Additionally, during the three months ended March 31, 2016 , the Company repaid $100 million against the principal balance of its revolving credit facility, which is discussed further below. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $891 million as of March 31, 2016 and $819 million as of December 31, 2015 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $26 million as of March 31, 2016 and $20 million as of December 31, 2015 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to 24 Table of Contents the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of March 31, 2016 , we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1.2 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Management believes current cash, Company cash flows from operations and its $320 million available under the credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2015 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. Teradata's revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) has a borrowing capacity $400 million . The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one -year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of March 31, 2016 , the Company had $80 million outstanding under the Credit Facility and carried an interest rate of 1.7329% , leaving $320 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Unamortized deferred costs of approximately $1 million are being amortized over the five -year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2016 . Teradata's $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of March 31, 2016 , the term loan principal outstanding was $593 million and carried an interest rate of 1.9375% . Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $2 million are being amortized over the five -year term of the loan. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2016 . Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2015 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. 25 Table of Contents In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2015 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies, except as discussed below. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement with an affiliate of Marlin Equity Partners to sell the marketing applications business for $90 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments based on, among other things, the amount of cash, debt and working capital in the business at the closing date. The Company performed a goodwill impairment analysis on the business to be disposed of based on the revised fair value. As a result of this analysis, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $ 57 million in the first quarter of 2016. In addition, acquired intangible assets were reduced by $ 19 million to adjust the carrying amount of the disposal group's net assets and liabilities down to its fair value less cost to sell. The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be an indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.