ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with a review of the other Items included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. All figures presented below represent results from continuing operations, unless otherwise specified. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain statements contained in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements. General TeraWulf is a vertically-integrated owner and operator of environmentally clean bitcoin mining facilities in the United States. Founded and led by an experienced group of energy & power entrepreneurs , the Company is actively operating and constructing, consistent with its sustainable energy mandate, two bitcoin mining facilities, the Lake Mariner Facility and the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility, in the States of New York and Pennsylvania, respectively. TeraWulf will own and operate its bitcoin mining facility sites and expects to consume over 90% zero-carbon energy, with a target of achieving 100%. In connection with the planned buildout, TeraWulf entered into a power purchase agreement at the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility and will receive power at approximately 2.0 cents/kWh. Moreover, the Lake Mariner Facility is located a mere 40 miles from the Robert Moses Niagara Power Plant, an approximate 2,600MW hydroelectric generating facility, the largest generating facility in New York State, and one of the largest in the country, with 24/7 access to low-cost carbon-free electricity. With the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility power purchase agreement, and the strategic location of the Lake Mariner Facility addition, TeraWulf expects to achieve an average long-term cost of electricity of approximately 3.5 cents/kWh, competitively positioning the Company to be a leading, low-cost and zero-carbon bitcoin mining operator in the United States. Lake Mariner Facility Located at a site adjacent to the decommissioned coal-fired Somerset Generating Station in Barker, New York, the Lake Mariner Facility has secured an initial 90 MW of energy to support its bitcoin mining capacity through an agreement with NYPA with the potential to expand into an additional 410 MW of energy supply. TeraWulf began mining bitcoin at the Lake Mariner Facility in March 2022 with 10 MW of mining capacity located on the turbine deck of the former coal-fired power plant and energized its first dedicated mining building (Building 1), housing approximately 50 MW of mining capacity, during the third quarter of 2022. During the third quarter of 2022, and in conjunction with Nautilus JV amendment discussed below, the Company expanded its self-mining capacity in Building 1 by transferring miners previously purchased for use at the Nautilus facility in order to accelerate revenue growth. Construction is largely complete at the Companys second dedicated mining building (Building 2), which is also scheduled to house approximately 50MW of mining capacity and is targeted for completion early in 2023. Nautilus Cryptomine Facility The Nautilus Cryptomine Facility is a joint venture between TeraWulf and Talen Energy Corporation (Talen) . The Nautilus Cryptomine Facility, located in Salem Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, is adjacent to the 2.5 GW nuclear-powered Susquehanna Station, 2.3 GW of which are owned and operated by Talen. The Nautilus Cryptomine Facility has secured as its power supply zero-carbon nuclear energy received directly from a substation connected to the Susquehanna Stations electrical generators over a five-year term with two successive three-year renewal options. The Nautilus Cryptomine Facility is located behind the meter and not connected to the electrical distribution grid, therefore avoiding transmission and distribution charges typically paid by other large power consumers. At the time of this Quarterly Report, the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility has access to up to 300 MW of bitcoin mining capacity from the Susquehanna Station and is expected to be the first bitcoin mining facility site that is powered by 100% behind the meter zero-carbon nuclear energy. TeraWulf plans to begin installation of miners at the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility in the fourth quarter of 2022. In August 2022, the Company and Talen amended their joint venture agreement thereby reducing TeraWulfs stake in the facility to 25% and right-sizing TeraWulfs miners and infrastructure to enable maximum utilization of 50 MW of power at 2.0 cents/kWh for five years. TeraWulf expects to generate revenues primarily by sustainably mining bitcoin at its bitcoin mining facility sites. Incremental revenues may be generated through the hedging and sale of mined bitcoin and the commercial optimization of TeraWulfs power supply. The Company will also leverage its available digital infrastructure to provide miner hosting services to third parties whereby the Company targets holding an option to purchase the hosted miners in the future at a discounted purchase price. We believe TeraWulf is an important and low-cost player in the Bitcoin network due to our vertical integration, ramp of large-scale operations, market-leading zero-carbon power supply arrangements and a seasoned, dedicated senior management team. 36 Table of Contents The Business Combination TeraWulf completed its business combination with IKONICS Corporation (IKONICS) on December 13, 2021 (the Closing Date) pursuant to which, among other things, TeraCub Inc. (TeraCub, formerly known as TeraWulf Inc.) would effectively acquire IKONICS and become a publicly traded company on the Nasdaq, which was the primary purpose of the business combination. For financial accounting purposes, the business combination was treated as a reverse merger whereby the accounting acquirer was TeraCub due to TeraCubs historic shareholders having the majority voting control in the Company, the board of directors members being associated with TeraCub and the senior management of TeraCub becoming the senior management of TeraWulf. Pursuant to business combination accounting, the Company applied the acquisition method, which requires the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at fair value, with limited exceptions. The Companys consolidated financial statements include the operating results of IKONICS beginning on the Closing Date. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of IKONICS common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Closing Date was automatically converted into and exchanged for (i) one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Common Stock of TeraWulf, (ii) one contractual contingent value right (CVR) to a Contingent Value Rights Agreement (CVR Agreement) and (iii) the right to receive $5.00 in cash, without interest. TeraCub common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Closing Date was automatically converted into the right to receive a number of validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable shares of TeraWulf such that the TeraCub common stockholders prior to conversion would effectively control 98% of the total outstanding shares of TeraWulf immediately subsequent to the Closing Date. Pursuant to the CVR Agreement, each shareholder of IKONICS as of immediately prior to the Closing Date, received one CVR for each outstanding share of common stock of IKONICS then held. The holders of the CVRs are entitled to receive 95% of the Net Proceeds (as defined in the CVR Agreement), if any, from the sale, transfer, disposition, spin-off, or license of all or any part of the pre-merger business of IKONICS completed within 18 months following the date of the merger, subject to a reserve of up to 10% of the Gross Proceeds (as defined in the CVR Agreement) from such transaction and such other amount to be retained to satisfy Retained Liabilities, as defined. The CVRs do not confer to their holders any voting or equity or ownership interest in IKONICS or TeraWulf and are not transferable, except in limited circumstances, and are not listed on any quotation system or traded on any securities exchange. The CVR Agreement will terminate after all payment obligations to the holders thereof have been satisfied. Holders of CVRs will not be eligible to receive payment for dispositions, if any, of any part of the pre-merger business of IKONICS after the eighteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date. The fair value of the aggregate consideration paid for IKONICS was $66.3 million, which includes (i) cash consideration of $13.7 million ($10.3 million net of cash acquired), (ii) equity consideration of $40.6 million and contingent consideration (related to the CVRs) of $12.0 million. As of September 30, 2022, the CVR liability included in the Companys consolidated balance sheets is $10.6 million. During the three months ended September 30, 2022, the Company completed sales of all IKONICS net assets held for sale for net proceeds of $13.5 million, of which $7.2 million remains in escrow under provisions of an asset purchase agreement. Subsequent to the asset sales, IKONICS name was changed to RM 101 Inc. (RM 101) and the entity has no remaining operations or employees. Upon the consummation of the business combination, IKONICS common stock ceased trading on the Nasdaq and TeraWulf Common Stock began trading on the Nasdaq on December 14, 2021 under the ticker symbol WULF. COVID-19 The Companys results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the economy and in the global financial markets, including conditions that are outside of the Company's control, such as the outbreak and global spread of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The COVID-19 pandemic that was declared on March 11, 2020 has caused significant economic dislocation in the United States and globally as governments across the world, including the United States, introduced measures aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19. The spread of COVID-19 and the imposition of related public health measures have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, increased volatility and uncertainty in the cryptocurrency space. Any severe or prolonged economic downturn, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, could result in a variety of risks to the business and management cannot anticipate all the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact its business. The Company may experience disruptions to its business operations resulting from supply interruptions (including miner delivery interruptions), quarantines, self-isolations, or other movement and restrictions on the ability of its employees or its counterparties to perform their jobs and provide services. The Company may also experience delays in construction and obtaining necessary equipment in a timely fashion. To date, the Company has experienced certain, but minimal, delays due to COVID-19 37 Table of Contents complications among its employees, suppliers and contractors. If the Company is unable to effectively set up and service its miners, its ability to mine bitcoin will be adversely affected. The future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is still highly uncertain and there is no assurance that the COVID-19 pandemic or any other pandemic, or other unfavorable global economic, business or political conditions, will not materially and adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Change in Fiscal Year Upon the closing of its business combination with IKONICS, the Company assumed the fiscal year end of December 31. Previously, the Companys fiscal year ended on March 31. Results of Operations Since the Companys inception on February 8, 2021, the Companys primary activities have been focused on capital acquisition, merger negotiation and consummation, joint venture negotiation and participation, miner procurement, electricity procurement, construction commencement and management, commencement of mining operations, ongoing mining operations, public company readiness and general corporate activities. The Companys plan of operation for the next twelve months is to continue to increase the mining capacity at its operating mining facilities and complete the development of its other bitcoin mining facilities, both wholly owned and owned through the Nautilus Joint Venture. Continuing Operations All items included in loss from continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 relate to its wholly-owned operations of its sole business segment, digital currency mining, due to the Company presenting the IKONICS business as discontinued operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Revenue and Cost of Revenue Revenue increased to $3.9 million and $5.5 million during the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, as compared to $0 during the three months ended September 30, 2021 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 due primarily to the commencement of mining activities at the Lake Mariner Facility in March 2022, the accelerated ramp of mining operations during the three months ended September 30, 2022 and also to the commencement of miner hosting arrangements at the Lake Mariner Facility in May 2022 and the three months ended September 30, 2022. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, revenue from mining was $3.6 million and revenue from hosting was $1.9 million. Cost of revenue increased to $5.2 million and $5.8 million during the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, as compared to $0 during the three months ended September 30, 2021 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 due primarily to the commencement of mining activities at the Lake Mariner Facility in March 2022 and the accelerated ramp of mining operations during the three months ended September 30, 2022. The cost of power for the three and nine month period ended September 30, 2022 was meaningfully higher than expected primarily due to non-recurring issues associated with the commencement and rapid scaling of mining operations at the Companys Lake Mariner facility in New York, including (1) a delay until August 2022 in transitioning the facility to the New York Power Authoritys high load factor Service Tariff No. HLF-1, which resulted in increased distribution, demand and related charges, (2) invoicing discrepancies between Lake Mariner, National Grid PLC and New York Power Authority and (3) delayed enrollment in certain of New Yorks demand response programs, which resulted in lower ancillary revenues to offset power costs during the period. While the competitive wholesale electricity markets were abnormally and heavily influenced by domestic and global market events during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, futures curves for fossil fuels and power prices have since moderated and the Company expects Lake Mariner to realize power prices that are in line with the Companys projections and reflect the facilitys ideal location in a region predominately supplied by hydro, nuclear and renewable energy. 38 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses The following table presents operating expenses (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, September 30, September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Operating expenses $ 261 $ $ 1,689 $ 93 Operating expenses - related party 603 36 812 911 $ 864 $ 36 $ 2,501 $ 1,004 Operating expenses (including related party expenses) increased $828,000 from the three months ended September 30, 2021 to the three months ended September 30, 2022 and increased $1.5 million from the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase related to the three month period ended September 30, 2022 is attributable to the commencement of mining activities at the Lake Mariner Facility in March 2022. The increase related to the nine month period ended September 30, 2022 is attributable primarily to the aforementioned commencement of mining activities and to a two-month miner lease agreement that expired in May 2022. This increase is tempered by the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 including certain development expenses, including services and third-party costs for transmission consulting, engineering consulting, transmission impact study, electricity procurement and site development. The following table presents selling, general and administrative expenses (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, September 30, September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 5,934 $ 3,963 $ 16,253 $ 6,747 Selling, general and administrative expenses - related party 2,948 2,035 8,187 4,226 $ 8,882 $ 5,998 $ 24,440 $ 10,973 Selling, general and administrative expenses (including related party expenses) increased $2.9 million from the three months ended September 30, 2021 to the three months ended September 30, 2022 and increased $13.5 million from the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. In each case, the increase is primarily a result of the scope of Company operations whereby the Company was a public company significantly engaged in an infrastructure buildout and commencement of mining activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as opposed to a newly formed private company with limited operations for the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021. Selling, general and administrative expenses are comprised primarily of professional fees, legal fees, employee compensation and benefits, insurance and general corporate expenses. Professional fees include fixed and passthrough expenses under the administrative and infrastructure services agreement amounting to $8.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The Company has undertaken cost reduction initiatives targeted at reducing its overall operating expense that is expected to benefit its operating profitability, going forward Interest expense for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $7.2 million and $16.7 million, respectively and for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 was $0. Interest expense relates primarily to the Companys term loan financing in the principal amount of $138.5 million, which was closed on December 1, 2021 with a principal balance of $123.5 million and was amended on July 1, 2022 to include an additional $15.0 million drawn under a delayed draw term loan facility (together, the Term Loan). The Term Loan bears an interest rate of 11.5%, which interest payments are due quarterly in arrears. Of the $7.2 and $16.7 million of interest expense reported in the consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended September, 2022, respectively, approximately $2.2 million and $6.6 million, respectively, of the interest expense relates to amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount related to debt issuance costs, an upfront fee, and the fair value of equity and common stock warrants issued to the Term Loan investors in conjunction with the Term Loan. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Company capitalized $1.9 million and $4.3 million, respectively, of interest costs to property, plant and equipment, net and $1.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively, 39 Table of Contents of interest to equity in net assts of investee in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2022. Additionally, on June 2, 2022, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note (the Promissory Note) with a principal balance of $15.0 million. The Promissory Note bears an interest rate of 4.0%. Interest payments are due monthly in conjunction with scheduled principal payments. The Promissory Note may be repaid with the proceeds of an Advance or repaid in cash and, if repaid in cash, together with a cash payment premium of 6%, provided that if the Companys Common Stock market price, as defined, is less than $2.25 per share, the cash payment premium will be 4%. Of the $16.7 million of interest expense reported in the statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, approximately $0.3 million of the interest expense relates to amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount related to an upfront fee. Equity in net loss of investee, net of tax Equity in net loss of investee, net of tax for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $12.7 million and $14.6 million, respectively, and for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 was $0.0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, the amounts include an impairment loss of $11.4 million on the distribution of miners from Nautilus to the Company whereby the miners were marked to fair value from book value on the date distributed. The impairment loss was the result of decreasing prices for miners between initial purchase and distribution. In each case, the remaining amounts represent TeraWulfs 50% share of losses of Nautilus, which had not commenced principal operations as of September 30, 2022. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $0.9 million and $4.4 million, respectively, and for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021 was $0. In conjunction with the IKONICS business classification as held for sale upon acquisition on December 13, 2021, the Company has reported the IKONICS business as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, the total loss from discontinued operations reported is comprised primarily of an impairment loss on discontinued operations of $0 and $4.5 million, respectively, to write down the related carrying amounts of IKONICS to their fair values less estimated cost to sell, offset for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 by a remeasurement gain of $1.4 million on the CVRs, which represents the contingent consideration purchase price component of the IKONICS acquisition. All IKONICS net assets held for sale have been sold as of September 30, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2022, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $4.5 million, working capital deficiency, including current assets and current liabilities held for sale, of $89.5 million, total stockholders equity of $121.8 million and an accumulated deficit of $162.0 million. The Company incurred a net loss of $66.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, including a net impairment charge (net of the CVR remeasurement gain) of $3.1 million included in loss from discontinued operations, net of tax related to the acquired IKONICS business. The Company has commenced mining activities, however not yet to the scale required to support its principal operations. The Company has relied primarily on proceeds from its issuances of debt and equity and sale of bitcoin mined to fund its principal operations. The principal uses of cash are for deposits on miners, the buildout of mining facilities, 40 Table of Contents debt service, general corporate activities and investments in Nautilus joint venture related to the miner deposits, mining facility buildout and general corporate activities. Cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Nine Months Ended Period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, September 30, 2022 2021 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities: Continuing operations $ (31,704) $ (9,310) Discontinued operations (1,303) Total operating activities (33,007) (9,310) Investing activities (75,071) (70,096) Financing activities 73,354 80,000 Net change in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (34,724) $ 594 Cash used in operating activities for continuing operations was $31.7 million and $9.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, cash used in operations results from a net loss of $65.8 million less non-cash expenses, net of $27.2 million, adjusted for changes in certain asset and liability balances and increased by proceeds from sale of bitcoin of $2.9 million. The non-cash expenses were primarily comprised of (i) $4.4 million of loss from discontinued operations, net of tax related to IKONICS business, the assets of which were substantially sold as of September 30, 2022, (ii) $14.6 million related to the Companys equity in net loss, net of tax of Nautilus, (iii) $7.5 million related to amortization of debt issuance cost and accretion of debt discount, (iv) impairment of digital currency and realized gain on sale of digital currency of $0.6 million on a net basis, (v) stock-based compensation of $1.1 million, (vi) depreciation of $1.7 million and (vii) a loss on nonmonetary miner exchange of $0.8 million. The changes in certain assets and liabilities were primarily comprised of a net increase in current liabilities (which includes accounts payable, accrued construction liabilities, other accrued liabilities, other amounts due to related parties and deferred tax liabilities) of $6.6 million, a net increase in current assets (which includes digital currency, prepaid expenses, amounts due from related parties and other current assets) of $1.6 million and an increase in other assets of $0.9 million Cash used in investing activities for continuing operations was $75.1 million and $70.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021, respectively. Deposits on miners comprised $12.1 million and $18.0 million (subsequently contributed to Nautilus and net of joint venture partner reimbursements) for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Company additionally (i) invested $38.4 million in the buildout of mining facilities, (ii) invested $38.0 million (including reimbursable payments made on behalf of the joint venture of joint venture partner offset by reimbursement from joint venture or joint venture partner of less than $0.1 million net cash used) in Nautilus related primarily to the joint ventures miner deposits and mining facility buildout and (iii) received net proceeds from the sale of IKONICS net assets held for sale of $13.5 million.. See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments for additional discussion on miner and Nautilus commitments. Cash provided by financing activities for continuing operations was $73.4 million and $80.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021, respectively. Proceeds from the issuance of Common Stock, net of issuance costs, were $36.8 million and $30.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 2021, respectively. In addition, for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and the period February 8, 2021 (date of inception) to September 30, 221, the Company issued shares of Series A Preferred stock (though a separate security in each period) for proceeds, net of issuance costs, of $9.6 million $50.0 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Company also received net proceeds of $14.7 million from the issuance of a convertible promissory note of which $2.8 million was repaid, received proceeds related to an amendment to its long-term debt of $15.0 million and received proceeds, net of principal payments, of notes payable for insurance premium financing of $0.1 million. 41 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments The Company has purchase obligations under miner purchase agreements and commitments under the Talen Joint Venture Agreement as of September 30, 2022, as follows (in thousands): Remaining Contractual Contractual Counterparty Agreement Description Agreement Date Amount Paid Amount Bitmain Technologies Limited Miner Purchase Agreement (2) December 7, 2021 $ 32,550 $ 13,352 $ 7,350 Bitmain Technologies Limited Miner Purchase Agreement (2) December 15, 2021 $ 169,050 $ 69,335 $ 38,220 Nautilus Cryptomine LLC Joint Venture Agreement (1) May 31, 2021, as amended August 27, 2022 $ 159,788 $ 142,688 $ 17,100 (1) The contractual commitment amount represents the potential contractually required capital contributions of the Company which are required for the initial phase of the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility buildout. The Company was not required to fund the $17.1 million remaining contractual amounts. However, to the extent not funded, the Companys ownership interest in the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility has been reduced. See additional discussion below regarding target ownership interest and funding payments made subsequent to September 30, 2022. The joint venture members may seek alternate financing for the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility, which could reduce the amount of investments each member would be required to provide. The members may mutually agree on changes to the Nautilus Cryptomine Facility, which could increase or decrease the amount of contributions each joint venture member is required to provide. (2) The remaining potential contractual commitments for the Bitmain Technologies Limited Non-fixed Price Sales and Purchase Agreements entered into in December 2021 (the December Bitmain Agreements) are based on the maximum contractual amount for remaining undelivered miners, for which the Company has paid 70% of the balance of such maximum contractual amount. Due to the decrease of market prices of miners, the Company does not expect the disclosed remaining potential contractual amount to be required. See additional discussion below, including confirming events occurring subsequent to September 30, 2022. The December Bitmain Agreements were originally for the purchase of an aggregate 18,000 S19 XP miners, to be delivered to the Lake Mariner Facility between July 2022 and December 2022. Pursuant to the December Bitmain Agreements, the Company paid aggregate initial deposits and installment payments of approximately $82.7 million as of September 30, 2022. The Company received 6,000 S19 XP miners for the Lake Mariner Facility during the three months ended September 30, 2022. The Company has taken actions to optimize the contracts. In September 2022, the Company cancelled the September and October 2022 batches and payments previously made for these monthly batches were applied to other payment obligations under the contract. Additionally, certain amounts of a Bitmain credit distributed by Nautilus have been applied to so that the Company is current on all payment obligations under the December Bitmain Agreements as of September 30, 2022. Subsequent to September 30, 2022, the Company cancelled the November 2022 batches of 3,000 miners and received a credit for amounts paid. The Company, utilizing certain of the credit amounts, entered into two Future Sales and Purchase Agreements with Bitmain for the aggregate purchase of 3,600 S19 XP miners and 2,750 S19 Pro miners, with originally scheduled monthly deliveries between November 2022 and February 2023. The Company does not expect any additional payment to be required under the December Bitmain Purchase Agreements. Pursuant to the terms of the amended and restated Talen Joint Venture Agreement dated August 27, 2022, TeraWulf has been deemed to contribute approximately $142.0 million of capital contributions to Nautilus and had remaining capital commitments of $17.1 million due by November 2022. To achieve the goal of right-sizing its equity investment to 25.1%, the Company subsequently contributed $7.3 million of the $17.1 million capital commitments that resulted in the intended ownership percentage. The Company is not obligated to fund the balance of the $17.1 million scheduled infrastructure-related capital contributions. The aforementioned contributions were based on the then current development budget formed on assumptions and inputs available at the time and are subject to change. Accordingly, the parties intend to make contributions as agreed to by the members in response to project requirements and market conditions. The Company does not expect any additional material infrastructure-related capital contributions to be required. Financial Condition; Need for Additional Capital There is limited historical financial information about the Company upon which to base an evaluation of its performance. The Company has commenced mining activities, however not yet to the scale required to support its principal operations. The Company has relied primarily on proceeds from its issuances of debt and equity and sale of bitcoin mined to fund its principal operations. In 42 Table of Contents accordance with its plan to develop its bitcoin mining facilities, during the nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Company paid approximately $12.1 million as deposits on miners, and may have a potential future obligations related to these miner purchase agreements, though it does not expect to do so. Also, during the nine months ended September 30, 2022, the Company invested $38.0 million, net in its joint venture and has additional commitments under its joint venture agreement. The Company will need additional capital in order to meet these obligations in accordance with the existing contractual terms and to fund the planned development of its bitcoin mining facilities. Until TeraWulf is able to generate positive cash flows from operations, TeraWulf expects to fund its business operations and infrastructure buildout through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of mined bitcoin or through the provision miner hosting services. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and as discussed below, the Company entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement for sale of shares of Common Stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $200.0 million (the ATM Offering) and a Standby Equity Purchase Agreement for the sale of shares of Common Stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $50.0 million (the SEPA). However, there can be no assurance that the ATM Offering, SEPA or any other financing will be successfully consummated on acceptable terms and volume, if at all, which may impact the timing or scale of TeraWulfs planned development and the Companys ability to meet ongoing business needs and financial commitments. In the event TeraWulf is unable to raise additional capital, TeraWulf may seek alternative arrangements or potential partnerships in order to fund its planned development. In the opinion of management, while it expects to be successful in its fundraising efforts, these factors, which include elements of capital acquisition outside the control of the Company, raise substantial doubt about TeraWulfs ability to continue as a going concern through at least the next twelve months. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from TeraWulfs possible inability to continue as a going concern. ATM Offering. On February 11, 2022, in order to facilitate additional capital acquisition, the Company entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the Sales Agreement) with B. Riley Securities, Inc. and D.A. Davidson & Co. (each, individually, an Agent and, collectively, the Agents), pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell, from time to time, through or to the agents, acting as agent or principal, shares of the Companys Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $200.0 million (the Shares). The Company is not obligated to sell any Shares under the Sales Agreement. In April 2022, the Company entered into a replacement sales agreement (the April ATM Sales Agreement) with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., B. Riley Securities, Inc. and D.A. Davidson & Co. (together the April ATM Agents), pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell, from time to time, through or to the April ATM Agents, shares of the Companys Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $200.0 million. The April ATM Sales Agreement replaced the Sales Agreement. The Company is not obligated to sell any shares under the April ATM Sales Agreement. Subject to the terms and conditions of the April ATM Sales Agreement, the Agents will use commercially reasonable efforts, consistent with its normal trading and sales practices, to sell Shares from time to time based upon the Companys instructions, including any price, time or size limits or other customary parameters or conditions specified by the Company. The Company will pay the Agents a commission equal to 3.0% of the gross sales price from each sale of Shares and provide the Agents with customary indemnification and contribution rights. The April ATM Sales Agreement may be terminated by the Agents or the Company at any time upon five (5) days notice to the other party. The issuance and sale of the April Shares by the Company under the April ATM Sales Agreement are made pursuant to the prospectus and prospectus supplement forming a part of the Companys shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-262226), which was declared effective on February 4, 2022 (the 2022 Registration Statement), including a final prospectus supplement dated April 26, 2022. The 2022 Registration Statement provides that the Company may offer and sell from time to time shares of its Common Stock, shares of its preferred stock, debt securities, depositary shares, warrants, rights, purchase contracts or units, or any combination thereof, in one or more offerings in amounts, at prices and on terms that it determines at the time of the offering, with an aggregate initial offering price of up to $500.0 million (or its equivalent in foreign currencies, currency units or composite currencies). As of November 14, 2022, the Company sold 2,910,909 shares of Common Stock for net proceeds of approximately $9.7 million under the ATM Offering. SEPA. On June 2, 2022, in order to facilitate additional capital acquisition, the Company entered into the SEPA with YA II PN, Ltd. (Yorkville). Pursuant to the SEPA, the Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to sell to Yorkville up to $50.0 million of its shares of Common Stock, at the Companys request any time during the commitment period commencing on June 2, 2022 and terminating on the earliest of (i) the first day of the month following the 36-month anniversary of the SEPA and (ii) the date on which Yorkville shall have made payment of any advances requested pursuant to the SEPA for shares of the Common Stock equal to the commitment amount of $50.0 million. Each sale the Company requests under the SEPA (an Advance) may be for a number of shares of Common Stock with an aggregate value of the greater of (1) an amount equal to 30% of the daily value traded, as defined, of Common Stock on the trading day prior to the delivery of the Advance notice or (2) $5.0 million. The Common Stock would be purchased at 97.0% of the Market Price, (as defined below) and would be subject to certain limitations, including that Yorkville could not purchase any Common Stock that would result in it owning more than 4.99% of the Companys outstanding Common Stock at the time of an Advance (the "Ownership Limitation") or an aggregate of 19.9% of the Company's outstanding Common Stock as of the date of the SEPA (the "Exchange Cap"). The Exchange Cap will not apply under certain circumstances, including to any sales of common stock under the SEPA that equal or exceeds $3.04 per share of Common Stock. Market Price is defined in the SEPA as the 43 Table of Contents average of the daily volume weighted average price, as defined, during each of the three consecutive trading days commencing on the trading day following the Companys submission of an Advance notice to Yorkville. The SEPA contains customary registration rights, representations, warranties, conditions and indemnification obligations by each party. Certain conditions precedent must be satisfied in order for the Company to deliver a notice of Advance. These conditions include, but are not limited to, the existence of an effective registrations statement pursuant to which Yorkville is permitted to utilize the prospectus thereunder to resell all of the Common Stock issuable pursuant to the Notice. The issuance and sale of the Common Stock by the Company under the SEPA are made pursuant to the prospectus and prospectus supplement forming a part of the 2022 Registration Statement, including a final prospectus supplement dated June 10, 2022. In addition to the Companys right to request Advances, subject to certain conditions precedent, the Company had the option to, but was not obligated to, effect a pre-advance loan with a principal amount of $15.0 million through the issuance and sale to Yorkville of a convertible promissory note (the Promissory Note). The Company elected to issue and sell the Promissory Note to Yorkville on June 2, 2022. As of September 30, 2022, the Company sold 91,405 shares of Common Stock for net proceeds of $250,000 under the SEPA agreement. The Company repaid $2.8 Million of principal under the Promissory Note as of September 30, 2022. Long-term Debt Amendment. In July 2022, the Company entered into an amendment to is Loan, Guaranty and Security Agreement (the LGSA). This amendment provides for an additional $50.0 million term loan facility (the New Term Facility). The New Term Facility has a maturity date of December 1, 2024, consistent with the existing term loans under the LGSA. The interest rate with respect to the New Term Facility is consistent with the existing term loans under the LGSA, but is subject to increase upon the occurrence of certain conditions. Pursuant to the New Term Facility, funds can be drawn in three tranches. The $15.0 million first tranche was drawn at closing in July 2022, and the subsequent tranches of up to $35 million may be drawn at Companys option, subject to certain conditions, including the raising of matching junior capital, as defined. The amortization with respect to the first tranche of the New Term Facility is consistent with existing term loans under the LGSA. The loans under the subsequent tranches of the New Term Facility are repayable in quarterly installments on (i) April 5, 2024 and July 8, 2024, equal to 12.50% of the original principal amount advanced under such tranches under the LGSA and (ii) October 7, 2024, equal to 37.5% of the original principal amount advanced under such tranches of the LGSA. The New Term Facility required the Company to extend the initial term of the Ground Lease from five years to eight years. In connection with the New Term Facility, the Company issued warrants to the lenders under the New Term Facility to purchase 5,787,732 shares of Common Stock at $0.01 per share, an aggregate number of shares of the Companys Common Stock equal to 5.0% of the fully diluted equity of the Company. If the Company draws subsequent tranches, it is required to issue warrants to the lenders to purchase shares of the Companys Common Stock equal to dilution of 3.75% and 4.25% of the then fully diluted equity of the Company, respectively. A certain portion of the Warrants issued under the Warrant Agreement were subject to cancellation, upon the occurrence of certain conditions.; however, the time period for potential warrant cancellation has expired and no warrants were cancelled. In October 2022, the Company entered into a third amendment (the Third Amendment) to the LGSA. The Third Amendment divides the initial funding of up to $15,000,000 of the delayed draw term loan commitment under the LGSA into two tranches of up to $7,500,000 each. The first tranche of $7,500,000 was borrowed upon the effectiveness of the Third Amendment on October 7, 2022. In connection with the Third Amendment described above, the Company entered into an amendment and restatement of the warrant agreement related to the New Term Facility. The amended and restated warrant agreement provides that holders party thereto are entitled to additional warrants to purchase an aggregate number of shares of Common Stock equal to an incremental 3.75%, to be divided into two separate increments of 1.875% each, of the fully diluted equity of the Company, determined on the date of the funding of the two separate sub-tranches of $7,500,000 each pursuant to the Third Amendment. On October 7, 2022. the Company issued warrants to purchase 2,667,678 shares of Common Stock at $0.01 per share. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The above discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements requires the application of accounting policies and the use of estimates. The accounting policies most important to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and estimates that require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments are described below. Variable Interest Entities Variable interest entities (VIE) are legal entities in which equity investors do not have (i) sufficient equity at risk for the legal entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or (ii) as a group, the power, through voting or similar rights, to direct the activities of the legal entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance, or (iii) obligation to absorb the expected losses of the legal entity or the right to receive expected residual returns of the legal entity. The Company would consolidate any VIE in which it has a controlling financial interest through being deemed to be the primary 44 Table of Contents beneficiary of the VIE. The primary beneficiary of a VIE has both of the following characteristics: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance; and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If both characteristics are met, the Company considers itself to be the primary beneficiary and therefore will consolidate that VIE into its consolidated financial statements. The Company determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon initial involvement with a VIE and reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an ongoing basis. The determination of whether an entity is a VIE and whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE is based upon facts and circumstances for the VIE and requires significant judgments such as whether the entity is a VIE, whether the Companys interest in a VIE is a variable interest, the determination of the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the entity, whether the Company controls those activities, and whether the Company has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. The Company evaluated its investment in Nautilus under the VIE guidance, which requires management to exercise significant judgment. Due to the initial nature of the joint venture and the continued commitment for additional financing, the Company determined Nautilus is a VIE. While the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over Nautilus, the Company has determined that it does not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of Nautilus. The power to direct the activities of Nautilus that most significantly impact Nautilus economic performance are shared equally by both parties within the joint venture due to the requirement for both equity holders to approve many of the key operating decisions and when not equally shared, are predominantly under the control of the co-venturer, including through the co-venturers majority representation on the board of managers. As such, the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of Nautilus and, therefore, has accounted for this entity under the equity method of accounting. Risks associated with the Companys involvement with Nautilus include a commitment to fund additional equity investments. Mining pools The Company has entered into an arrangement with a cryptocurrency mining pool to provide computing power to the mining pool. The arrangement is terminable at any time by either party and our enforceable right to compensation only begins when the Company provides computing power to the mining pool operator. The mining pool applies the Full Pay Per Share (FPPS) model. Under the FPPS model, in exchange for providing computing power to the pool, the Company is entitled to compensation, calculated on a daily basis, at an amount that approximates the total bitcoin that could have been mined using the Companys computing power, based upon the then current blockchain difficulty. Under this model, the Company is entitled to compensation regardless of whether the pool operator successfully records a block to the bitcoin blockchain. Fair value of the cryptocurrency award received is determined using the quoted price of the related cryptocurrency at the time of contract inception. There is no significant financing component in these transactions. There may be, however, consideration payable to the customer in the form of a pool operator fee; this fee will be deducted from the proceeds the Company receives and will be recorded as contra-revenue, as it does not represent a payment for a distinct good or service. Providing computing power in cryptocurrency transaction verification services is an output of the Companys ordinary activities. The provision of providing such computing power is a performance obligation. The transaction consideration the Company receives is non-cash consideration and is all variable. Fair value of the cryptocurrency award received for cryptocurrency transaction verification services is determined using the quoted price of the related cryptocurrency at the time of receipt. There is no significant financing component in these transactions. The Company provides miner hosting services to customers. Hosting revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 606 over the period of service. Cryptocurrencies Cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, are included in current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Cryptocurrencies purchased will be recorded at cost and cryptocurrencies awarded to the Company through mining activities will be accounted for in connection with the Companys revenue recognition policy disclosed above. 45 Table of Contents Cryptocurrencies will be accounted for as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not amortized but assessed for impairment on a daily basis. Impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, which is measured using the quoted price of the cryptocurrency at the time its fair value is being measured. In testing for impairment, the Company has the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an impairment exists. If it is determined that it is not more likely than not that an impairment exists, a quantitative impairment test is not necessary. If the Company concludes otherwise, the Company is required to perform a quantitative impairment test. To the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. Purchases of cryptocurrencies, if any, made by the Company will be included within investing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows, while cryptocurrencies awarded to the Company through its mining activities will be included within operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The sales of cryptocurrencies will be included within investing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows and any realized gains or losses from such sales will be included in other income (expense) in the consolidated statements of operations. Issuance of Debt with Common Stock or Warrants; Debt Modification On December 1, 2021, TeraCub entered into a the LGSA, which consists of a $123.5 million term loan facility. In connection with the LGSA, the Company issued to the holders of the Term Loan 839,398 shares of Common Stock, which is a quantity of Common Stock representing 1.5% of the outstanding shares of the publicly registered shares of TeraWulf subsequent to the Closing. The allocation of proceeds between the debt instrument and any other components included in the debt issuance, including Common Stock, is generally based on the relative fair value allocation method. In applying the relative fair value allocation method, the determination of the fair value of the Common Stock issued and the fair value of the Term Loan independent of the Common Stock issued requires significant judgment. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% change in the estimated fair value of the Term Loan component would result in a $1.9 million change in the fair value allocated to each of the Term Loan and equity components. In October 2022, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to the LGSA, which included an additional borrowing of $15.0 million and the issuance of warrants to purchase 2,667,678 shares of Common Stock at $0.01 per share. The accounting for debt modifications is complex and requires significant judgment. Potential accounting outcomes include troubled debt restructuring accounting, extinguishment accounting or modification accounting, each with different implications for the consolidated financial statements. The Company has determined that modification accounting is applicable. Additionally, debt modification accounting requires the determination of the fair value of the warrants issued, which requires significant judgment. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% change in the estimated fair value of the warrants would result in a $0.6 million change in the recorded value of the borrowing under the Third Amendment. Convertible Instruments The Company accounts for its convertible promissory note that features a conversion option in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC No. 815 Derivatives and Hedging Activities (ASC No. 815 ). ASC No. 815 requires companies to bifurcate conversion options from their host instruments and account for them as freestanding derivative financial instruments according to certain criteria. The criteria includes circumstances in which (a) the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative instrument are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract, (b) a convertible promissory note that embodies both the embedded derivative instrument and the host contract is not re-measured at fair value under otherwise applicable U.S. GAAP with changes in fair value reported in earnings as they occur and (c) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative instrument would be considered a derivative instrument. The application of the guidance regarding embedded derivatives and the fair value determination of a bifurcated embedded derivative, if applicable, requires significant judgment. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes pursuant to the provision of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10, Accounting for Income Taxes which requires, among other things, an asset and liability approach to calculating deferred income taxes. The asset and liability approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided to offset any net deferred tax assets for which management believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company follows the provision of the ASC 740-10 related to Accounting for Uncertain Income Tax 46 Table of Contents Positions. When tax returns are filed, it is more likely than not that some positions taken would be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, while others are subject to uncertainty about the merits of the position taken or the amount of the position that would be ultimately sustained. In accordance with the guidance of ASC 740-10, the benefit of a tax position is recognized in the financial statements in the period during which, based on all available evidence, management believes it is more likely that not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of appeals or litigation processes, if any. Tax positions taken are not offset or aggregated with other positions. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the applicable taxing authority. The portion of the benefits associated with the tax positions taken that exceeds the amount measured as described above should be reflected as a liability for uncertain tax benefits in the Companys balance sheets along with any associated interest and penalties that would be payable to the taxing authorities upon examination. The most critical estimate for income taxes is the determination of whether to record a valuation allowance for any net deferred tax asset, including net loss carryforwards, whereby management must estimate whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset would be realized. 47 Table of Contents