Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Third Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the third quarter of 2015 : Total revenue was $606 million for the third quarter of 2015 , down from the third quarter of 2014 , with an underlying 18% decrease in product revenue and a 2% decrease in services revenue. Gross margin decreased to 50.7% in the third quarter of 2015 down from 52.5% in the third quarter of 2014 , driven by lower product and services gross margin. Operating income was $77 million in the third quarter of 2015 , compared to operating income of $123 million in the third quarter of 2014 , driven by lower product and consulting revenue and lower gross margins. Net income in the third quarter of 2015 was $78 million , compared to net income of $94 million in the third quarter of 2014 . Strategic Overview Teradata helps companies achieve competitive advantage and win in their markets by empowering them to become data-driven businesses capable of exploiting data for insight and value. With Teradatas industry-leading analytic data platforms for data warehousing and big data analytics, marketing applications and proven consulting expertise, companies can become more competitive by leveraging data insights to increase revenue, reduce costs, improve business processes, enhance customer relationships, improve their marketing and drive innovation. We continue to focus on the following key strategies to broaden our position in the market and take advantage of market opportunities: Continue to be the trusted advisor for enabling data-driven business and continue investing in business and technical consulting via organic growth and targeted strategic acquisitions; Invest to expand our leading Unified Data Architecture, data warehouse software and platform family, big data discovery platforms, and Hadoop based data management platforms to address multiple market segments through internal development and targeted acquisitions; Broaden the market opportunity for the Data and Analytics business by offering alternative ways to purchase and deploy our data analytic offerings, such as software-only, cloud, and subscription-based models to make it easier and to provide more flexibility for customers to buy Teradata; and Optimize and realign our go-to-market resources to better serve the market and extend our sales reach. 17 Table of Contents Future Trends We believe that demand for Teradata's Data and Analytics offerings continues to be strong due to our market leading capabilities as well as the continued growth of data volumes and types of data, the scale and complexity of business requirements, the growing use of new data elements such as the Internet of Things, and more analytics over time. The adoption by customers of a broader set of analytics including predictive analytics, behavioral analytics, location analytics, connection analytics, and many others is driving more applications, usage, and capacity needs of their data analytics platforms. This increased breadth of analytics also drives the need for an overall architecture to manage an increasingly complex analytics environment. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership in analytic data platforms, data warehousing, big data analytics, and Unified Data Architecture positions us for future growth. This growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies, and other risks and uncertainties. Since mid-2012, Teradata has seen a change in customers buying patterns, particularly in the Americas region, with respect to large capital investments due to capital constraints, short-term investment priorities and lower cost, but lower-performing, alternatives. We believe that a number of factors are contributing to a slowdown in our Data and Analytics business revenue growth, including: Information technology budget constraints, as well as budget ownership being distributed to multiple business owners; Customers using and integrating multiple data analytics platforms that deliver different use cases and capabilities, but also at different cost levels; and To a lesser degree, the transfer of some Integrated Data Warehouse workloads to other platforms in the ecosystem. Although we did not experience significant changes related to competitive and/or pricing trends for our analytic data platforms in the quarter ended September 30, 2015, there is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could occur in the future as, among other things, major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes a top priority for companies and lower-cost, but less sophisticated alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. These alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex business analytic workloads or provide a Unified Data Architecture to address mission-critical analytics, discovery analytics, or data management such as enabled by Teradatas offerings. Key Business Initiatives As described above, we continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and will enable future revenue growth for Teradata. Moreover, we are committed to the development of new products and alternative ways to purchase and consume our solutions, while achieving attractive yields from our research and development investments, which are intended to create increased future demand and revenue growth. As the market evolves and we broaden our product portfolio and market reach, we are seeing an increase in the product mix of our 2000 series versus the 6000 series in new customer wins, which is contributing to some extent to lower product revenue and gross margins. As a result, we are developing alternative ways for customers to buy Teradata and launching four key initiatives: Expanding our core data warehouse market opportunity, such as with our software-only version of the Teradata database for public and private clouds; Focusing on big data solutions that increase our relevance with customers in the dynamic analytic ecosystem; Enhancing our value-added services to help customers design, implement, and manage increasingly complex analytic architectures; and Evolving our go-to-market approach. These offerings are designed to broaden the market opportunity for Teradata's Data and Analytics business. 18 Table of Contents Overall, we believe that Teradata will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems, due to Teradatas technological capability being highly differentiated with the ability to handle the analytical needs and service levels needed for concurrency of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems, through growth in its Integrated Data Warehouse and big data analytics solutions, as well as the addition of new customers. Cost Rationalization/Reduction The Company is also engaged in a thorough review of its cost structure and is taking significant steps to rationalize and optimize the return/yield on its expense structure. This broad-based cost rationalization effort includes reducing Teradatas infrastructure costs as it transitions to focus solely on its Data and Analytics business, optimizing its go-to-market resources and approach, and prioritizing research and development projects based on revenue generation and profitability. Exiting Marketing Applications Business Although we believe the demand for our Marketing Applications solutions is likely to increase as marketing continues to be transformed by the increased usage of data and analytics to understand and optimize the marketing process and be able to deliver individualized marketing to consumers through the increased usage of digital marketing channels, Teradata has concluded it is in the long-term best interests of the Company and its shareholders to exit the Marketing Applications business in order to exclusively focus on its Data and Analytics business opportunities. As Teradata focuses on improving results from its core Data and Analytics business, it will become difficult for Teradata to give the Marketing Applications business the proper focus to ensure its success and that it meets its potential. Moving this business to a new owner will allow Teradata to focus its attention on its core business, as well as give the Marketing Applications business the opportunity to maximize its value outside of Teradata. Under new ownership, with more focus on the marketing applications space, we believe this business unit has greater opportunity for success. We believe that the Marketing Applications business has strong solutions and has the potential for high growth in an attractive market and will be able to better realize that potential outside of Teradata. We will work diligently with our customers and employees to enable the success of this business. Business Transformation Although Teradata is still in the process of finalizing its transformation and cost reduction plans, it expects approximately $120 million of benefit to its 2016 operating income from its cost reduction/realignment initiatives and from the exit of the Marketing Applications business, exclusive of one-time costs. Although our plans are still being developed, the total annualized cost savings associated with the transformational initiatives that we are developing, excluding Marketing Applications, is expected to be in the range of $80 to $100 million. More information regarding these initiatives will be provided after the Company completes its transformational and cost reduction plans, which is expected to be completed in the first part of 2016. Currency exposure The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates given that a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Based on currency rates as of October 30, 2015, Teradata is expecting approximately six percentage points of adverse impact from currency translation on our full-year 2015 reported revenue growth rate and a corresponding currency impact on our profitability. 19 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 Revenue % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Product revenue $ 240 39.6 % $ 294 44.1 % Service revenue 366 60.4 % 373 55.9 % Total revenue $ 606 100 % $ 667 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $61 million or 9% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 6% adverse impact on revenue in the quarter. Product revenue decreased 18% in the third quarter of 2015 from the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in Integrated Data Warehouse products. Services revenue decreased 2% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the prior-year period. This was primarily due to a 3% decrease in consulting revenue and a 1% decrease in maintenance revenue from prior year. Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 142 59.2 % $ 175 59.5 % Service gross margin 165 45.1 % 175 46.9 % Total gross margin $ 307 50.7 % $ 350 52.5 % Product gross margin decline was driven by a higher amortization of capitalized software, the impact of currency, and by a similar amount of fixed costs on an 18% product revenue decline. This was partially offset by improved deal mix. Services gross margin decline was driven by investments we are making in our big data consulting capabilities and by lower margins in the Marketing Applications business. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 179 29.5 % $ 181 27.1 % Research and development expenses 51 8.4 % 46 6.9 % Total operating expenses $ 230 38.0 % $ 227 34.0 % The decrease in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense of $2 million was primarily due to movements in foreign currency, which more than offset the increases resulting from our strategic investments in demand creation headcount and marketing programs. Research and Development ("R&D") expenses increased $5 million due to additional investment in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, and includes R&D expense associated with our recent acquisitions. 20 Table of Contents Other Income, net In millions 2015 2014 Gain on securities $ 35 $ Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (3 ) (1 ) Other income, net $ 33 $ Other income in the third quarter of 2015 arose primarily from a $35 million gain on the sale of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the United States. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the United States and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2015 to be a tax expense of approximately (7000%), which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2015 and the $84 million discrete tax impact to our effective rate resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment, of which $317 million is related to non-deductible goodwill. This estimate also assumes that the U.S. Federal Research and Development Tax Credit (US R&D Tax Credit), which expired on December 31, 2014, will be retroactively reinstated sometime during 2015. If the credit is not reinstated during 2015, we estimate our tax expense will increase by approximately $3 million. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 12%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the United States. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014 were as follows: 2015 2014 Effective tax rate 29.1 % 23.6 % For the three months ended September 30, 2015 , the effective tax rate included no material discrete tax items. For the three months ended September 30, 2014 , the effective tax rate included a $4 million discrete tax benefit resulting from an Internal Revenue Service audit settlement of the 2011 tax year, which occurred in the third quarter of 2014. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment Effective January 1, 2015, Teradata implemented an organizational change in which Teradata now manages its business in two divisions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Data and Analytics, and (2) Marketing Applications. This change will enable each division to be more sharply focused on rapidly addressing the dynamics of each market, and on bringing the best solutions to our customers. For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross margin. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 21 Table of Contents The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended September 30 : % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Segment revenue Data and Analytics $ 557 91.9 % $ 614 92.1 % Marketing Applications 49 8.1 % 53 7.9 % Total segment revenue $ 606 100 % $ 667 100 % Segment gross margin Data and Analytics $ 296 53.1 % $ 334 54.4 % Marketing Applications 20 40.8 % 25 47.2 % Total segment gross margin $ 316 52.1 % $ 359 53.8 % Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 9% in the third quarter of 2015 from the third quarter of 2014 , which included a 5% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Americas revenue was down 10% , which included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. International revenue declined 9% , and included a 13% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins were down from third quarter of 2014 driven by both product and services gross margins. The product gross margin decline was driven by a similar amount of fixed costs on a 19% decline in product revenue. The services margin decline was primarily driven by investments we are making in our big data business. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 8% in the third quarter of 2015 from the third quarter of 2014 . The revenue decrease included an 8% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease is primarily driven by lower professional services margins which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market. Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 Revenue % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Product revenue $ 737 40.7 % $ 867 44.0 % Service revenue 1,074 59.3 % 1,104 56.0 % Total revenue $ 1,811 100 % $ 1,971 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $160 million or 8% during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Foreign currency fluctuations had a 6% adverse impact on revenue in the first nine months of 2015. Product revenue decreased 15% in the first nine months of 2015 from the prior-year period primarily due to a decrease in customer large capital expenditures and foreign currency fluctuations, which had a 5% adverse impact on product revenue. Services revenue decreased 3% in the first half of 2015 compared to the prior-year period. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 7% adverse impact on services revenue. Consulting revenue declined 5% in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due to foreign currency fluctuations. Maintenance revenue was flat in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . 22 Table of Contents Gross Margin % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Gross margin Product gross margin $ 437 59.3 % $ 551 63.6 % Service gross margin 474 44.1 % 503 45.6 % Total gross margin $ 911 50.3 % $ 1,054 53.5 % The decrease in product gross margin was caused by the high mix of hardware versus software deals, which was driven by a few large transactions in the first nine months of 2015. Product gross margins were also negatively impacted by foreign currency, a lower mix of our integrated data warehousing products, and a reduction in product volume. Services gross margin was positively impacted by the increased mix of higher margin maintenance revenue. This was more than offset by a decline in consulting services margins primarily due to the investments we are making in our big data services, Marketing Applications business and Teradata cloud capabilities. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 553 30.5 % $ 557 28.3 % Research and development expenses 173 9.6 % 152 7.7 % Impairment of goodwill 340 18.8 % % Total operating expenses $ 1,066 58.9 % $ 709 36.0 % The decrease in SG&A expense of $4 million is a result of the change in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by increased investments in demand creation resulting from our strategic investment initiatives. R&D expenses increased 14% due to additional investments in big data analytics, cloud and marketing applications, which includes R&D expense associated with our recent acquisitions. The increase in R&D expense was also caused by a decrease in capitalized software of $6 million as compared to the prior year. During the second quarter, the Company determined that indicators were present in the Marketing Applications reporting units which would suggest the fair value of the reporting units may have declined below the carrying value. The indicators were primarily due to lower than forecasted revenue and profitability levels for 2015 and future periods. The lower projected operating results reflect further review and analysis of the Marketing Applications business performed following the recent creation of the business as a separate business as announced at the end of the first quarter of 2015 . Based on our analysis, the implied fair value of goodwill was substantially lower than the carrying value of goodwill for the Marketing Applications reporting units. As a result, the Company recorded a $340 million goodwill impairment charge during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . As a result of the goodwill impairment charge, the remaining carrying value of goodwill is $244 million for the marketing applications reporting units as of September 30, 2015 . See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for further discussion. The determination of whether or not goodwill is impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions underlying the approaches used to determine the estimated fair value of our reporting units. The Company believes that assumptions and rates used in the impairment assessment are reasonable. However, these assumptions are judgmental and variations in any assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value. The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be a probable indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. 23 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), net In millions 2015 2014 Gain (loss) on securities $ 50 $ (9 ) Interest income 3 3 Interest expense (6 ) (3 ) Other (1 ) 1 Other income (expense), net $ 46 $ (8 ) Other income in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 arose primarily from $50 million in gains on the sale of equity investments. Other expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 included a $9 million impairment in the carrying value of an equity investment. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014 were as follows: 2015 2014 Effective tax rate (51.4 )% 26.1 % For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , the effective tax rate includes a $84 million discrete tax impact reflected in the second quarter resulting from the $340 million goodwill impairment, of which $317 million is related to non-deductible goodwill. For the nine months ended September 30, 2014 the effective tax rate included a $4 million discrete tax benefit resulting from an Internal Revenue Service audit settlement of the 2011 tax year, which occurred in the third quarter of 2014. The difference in the effective tax rate period over period was primarily driven by the $84 million discrete tax impact from the goodwill impairment recorded in the second quarter of 2015. Revenue and Gross Margin by Operating Segment The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the nine months ended September 30 : % of % of In millions 2015 Revenue 2014 Revenue Segment revenue Data and Analytics $ 1,668 92.1 % $ 1,814 92.0 % Marketing Applications 143 7.9 % 157 8.0 % Total segment revenue $ 1,811 100 % $ 1,971 100 % Segment gross margin Data and Analytics $ 883 52.9 % $ 1,011 55.7 % Marketing Applications 58 40.6 % 72 45.9 % Total segment gross margin $ 941 52.0 % $ 1,083 54.9 % Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 8% in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , which included a 6% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Americas revenue was down 6% primarily driven by a decrease in customer large capital expenditure transactions. International revenue was down 11% , which included a 12% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Gross margins were down in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the first nine months of the prior year due to the high mix of hardware versus software deals in the first nine months of 2015 and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Marketing Applications: Revenue decreased 9% in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The revenue decrease included a 7% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall gross margin decrease is primarily driven by investments in the cloud business as well as 24 Table of Contents lower professional services margins, which were impacted by investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market and drive long-term growth in this business. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $213 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to lower net income (net of non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, impairment of goodwill and deferred taxes) and a smaller reduction in working capital, largely driven by a smaller decrease in receivables as compared to the prior period. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Nine Months Ended September 30, In millions 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 370 $ 583 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (43 ) (37 ) Additions to capitalized software (51 ) (57 ) Free cash flow $ 276 $ 489 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. These activities included an immaterial acquisition and $69 million from the sale of equity investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Other investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 primarily consisted of immaterial complementary business acquisitions and equity investment activities that were closed during the period. Teradatas financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases, payments on credit facility borrowings, and proceeds from long-term debt. The Company purchased 15.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $35.45 in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 6.9 million shares at an average price per share of $42.30 in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of September 30, 2015 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $667 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. 25 Table of Contents Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $20 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and $20 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , the Company repaid $220 million against the principal balance of its revolving credit facility, which is discussed further below. Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $833 million as of September 30, 2015 and $785 million as of December 31, 2014 . The remaining balance held in the United States was $41 million as of September 30, 2015 and $49 million as of December 31, 2014 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of September 30, 2015 , we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Management believes current cash, Company cash flows from operations and its $290 million available under the credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2014 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. On March 25, 2015, Teradata replaced its existing five -year, $300 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one -year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of September 30, 2015 , the Company had $110 million of outstanding borrowings on the Credit Facility at an interest rate of 1.3943% , leaving $290 million in additional borrowing capacity available. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 2015 . Also on March 25, 2015 , Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $600 million five -year term loan, the proceeds of which were used to pay off the remaining $247 million of principal on its existing term loan, pay off the $220 million outstanding balance on the prior credit facility, and to fund share repurchases. The $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which will commence on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of September 30, 2015 , the term loan principal outstanding was $600 million and carried an interest rate of 1.6250% . The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 2015 . Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2014 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 26 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2014 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies, except as discussed below. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company determined that indicators were present in the Marketing Applications reporting units which would suggest the fair value of the reporting units may have declined below the carrying value. These indicators were primarily due to lower than forecasted revenue and profitability levels for 2015 and future periods. The lower projected operating results reflect an ongoing review of the Marketing Applications business performed by new leadership announced at the end of the first quarter of 2015. The interim goodwill impairment analysis performed in the second quarter of 2015 resulted in a revision of the Companys previous estimates performed in the fourth quarter of 2014 and first quarter of 2015 (in connection with the change in segment reporting), which resulted in a goodwill impairment of $340 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The remaining amount of goodwill allocated to these reporting units was $244 million at September 30, 2015 . The Company will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of its fourth quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in operating results, market conditions or changes in managements business strategy, indicate that there may be an indicator of impairment. It is possible that the assumptions used by management related to the evaluation may change or that actual results may vary significantly from managements estimates. As a result, additional impairment charges may occur in the future. In addition, there may be additional impairment charges as a result of the Company's decision to exit the business underlying our Marketing Applications operating segment. See Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for further discussion. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.