Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 (the "2020 Annual Report"). The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a leading multi-cloud data platform provider for enterprise analytics at scale. Our connected multi-cloud data platform, Teradata Vantage, allows customers to integrate and simplify their multi-cloud data and analytic ecosystems, streamline access and management of their data, and use analytics to derive business value from diverse data types. Our Teradata Vantage platform is designed and built to run across on-premises, private cloud and public cloud environments. This platform is supported by business consulting, support services and partner networks that enable customers to extract insights from across a companys entire data and analytics ecosystem. Teradatas strategy is based on our differentiated value proposition for the top 10,000 largest organizations in the world. Our strategy is to provide a connected multi-cloud data platform, Teradata Vantage, that supports the needs of enterprises from start to scale. We believe that Teradata Vantage is also an effective platform for driving business outcomes, with a partnering approach, embracing modern ecosystems and enabling users to build how they want. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including significant product expansion of our Teradata Vantage multi-cloud data platform offering, expanding our footprint with existing customers and adding new customers, driving focus on modern cloud partner ecosystems and driving operational efficiency and agility across the company. Our strategy is further supported by various people initiatives to drive a growth-oriented culture, as well as an increased focus on diversity, equity and inclusiveness, to attract and support high performing, top talent, and diverse teams. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual contract value for all active and contractually binding term-based contracts at the end of a period. ARR includes maintenance, software upgrade rights, public cloud and on-premises subscription-based transactions. Public cloud ARR (included within total ARR) - annual contract value for all active and contractually binding term based contracts at the end of a period that are operated in a public cloud environment; and Remaining performance obligation ("RPO")/Backlog - the price of firm orders for which work has not been performed or goods have not been delivered and the Company is contractually required to perform. COVID-19 Update See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk factors" and Part II, Item 7, "Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in the 2020 Annual Report for a discussion related to risks and impact of COVID-19 on the Company. As of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are continuing to execute our pandemic response plan, and the Teradata Pandemic Response Team is refining and executing return-to-office plans with "safety first" considerations. Customer-facing teams are also proactively working to identify ways to assist customers, meet service level commitments, and engage with customers via virtual events. 19 Table of Contents Despite these efforts, there remains a fair degree of uncertainty regarding the potential impact of the pandemic on our business, from both a financial and operational perspective, and the scope and costs associated with additional measures that may be necessary in response to the pandemic going forward. We will continue our diligent efforts to monitor and respond as appropriate to the impacts of the pandemic on our business, including the status of our workforce, supply chain, customers, suppliers, and vendors, based on the priorities described above. Our actions will continue to be informed by the requirements and recommendations of the federal, state or local authorities. We will remain agile and have contingency plans in place to appropriately respond to conditions as they unfold. First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2021: At the end of the first quarter of 2021, ARR was $1.404 billion, increasing 12% as compared to the first quarter of 2020, including a 3% positive impact from foreign currency translation, as compared to the first quarter of 2020. At the end of first quarter of 2021, Public cloud ARR was $124 million, increasing 176% as compared to the first quarter of 2020, including a 6% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Total revenue was $491 million for the first quarter of 2021, a 13% increase compared to the first quarter of 2020, with an underlying 20% increase in recurring revenue. Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue was flat, and consulting services revenue decreased 4%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 3% positive impact on total revenue for the quarter compared to the prior year. Gross margin increased to 62.5% in the first quarter of 2021 from 51.8% in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to a higher recurring revenue mix as compared to the prior period. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2021 decreased by 2% compared to the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to lower travel and marketing expenses partially offset by an increase in investments in cloud transformation and variable incentive compensation expense. Operating income was $81 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared to operating loss of $6 million in the first quarter of 2020. Net income in the first quarter of 2021 was $53 million, compared to $168 million in the first quarter of 2020. Net income in first quarter of 2020 was higher due to discrete tax items during the quarter. Total backlog of $2.702 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2021 was up 2% from the first quarter of the prior year. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Revenue % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Recurring $ 372 75.7 % $ 311 71.7 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 23 4.7 % 23 5.3 % Consulting services 96 19.6 % 100 23.0 % Total revenue $ 491 100.0 % $ 434 100.0 % Total revenue increased $57 million, or 13%, in first quarter of 2021 and included a 3% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue grew 20%, due to strong ARR growth in the fourth quarter of 2020 driven by continued growth in public cloud and subscription ARR, contributing to a higher base of recurring revenue. Continued growth in public cloud ARR also contributed to increased recurring revenue. Additionally, recurring revenue was positively impacted by a few significant on-premises customer transactions involving substantive long-term commitments which resulted in revenue being recognized on a recurring annual basis rather than a recurring quarterly basis that drove approximately $24 million of revenue into the first quarter from these few arrangements versus ratably across the four quarters of 2021. For full year 2021, we expect a mid- to high-single digit percentage increase in ARR growth and recurring revenue as compared to 2020, although we anticipate fluctuations in our quarterly recurring revenue. Public cloud ARR is expected to increase by at least 100% year-over-year. Taking into consideration the expected growth in recurring revenue, partially offset by anticipated reductions in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue and consulting services revenue, we expect that total revenue will grow at a low-single-digit percentage rate in 2021 as compared to 2020. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other were flat in the first quarter of 2021, including a 2% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations, as customers continue to transition to subscription-based offerings. Perpetual revenue performed better than we anticipated due primarily to deal-mix in the EMEA region and third-party software products. Consulting services revenue decreased 4% in the first quarter of 2021, including a 4% positive impact from foreign currency fluctuations, as we are realigning and focusing our consulting resources on higher-margin engagements, both direct engagement with customers and joint engagement with partners that drive increased software consumption within our targeted customer base. Consulting revenue was also impacted by the transition to work from home and shelter-in-place orders that went in effect late in the first quarter of 2020 in response to COVID-19 as well as delays and/or cancellations of consulting projects due to customers reduced spending in light of COVID-19. Consulting services revenue performed better than we anticipated primarily due to higher-value engagements globally. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 30, 2021, Teradata is expecting approximately two percentage points of positive impact from currency translation on our 2021 full-year total revenues. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Recurring $ 282 75.8 % $ 218 70.1 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 12 52.2 % 8 34.8 % Consulting services 13 13.5 % (1) (1.0) % Total gross profit $ 307 62.5 % $ 225 51.8 % 21 Table of Contents The increase in recurring revenue gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by a higher amount of recurring revenue at an improved gross margin rate driven by improved operating efficiencies of our subscription and cloud-based offerings. Annual revenue recognition of a few significant customer transactions, discussed above, also had a positive impact on recurring revenue gross margin. The increase in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix compared to prior year. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased as compared to the prior year primarily due to improved resource mix utilization as well as increased revenue realization and our continued strategic focus to improve consulting margins due to focus on higher-value projects. The Company continues to refocus our consulting organization on Vantage-oriented offerings and reduce our footprint in non-core consulting engagements. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 149 30.3 % $ 158 36.4 % Research and development expenses 77 15.8 % 73 16.7 % Total operating expenses $ 226 46.0 % $ 231 53.2 % The selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decrease was primarily driven by lower employee cost base resulting from the workforce reduction measures in 2020, lower travel and marketing spend as compared to the prior year pre-pandemic period and improved operational execution compared to prior year. Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased primarily due to spending focused on accelerating our cloud initiatives as well as higher variable incentive compensation expense. Other Expense, net In millions 2021 2020 Interest income $ 1 $ 2 Interest expense (7) (7) Other (3) (3) Other expense, net $ (9) $ (8) Other expense, net in the first quarter of 2021 and 2020 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense, net increased compared to the prior year primarily due to lower interest income generated on investments. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Company expects that a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. The effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2021 will be approximately 30%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2021. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 25%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: 2021 2020 Effective tax rate 26.4 % 1,300.0 % 22 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2021, the Company recorded $3 million of discrete tax benefit, a majority of which related to the excess tax benefits derived from equity compensation vesting. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company recorded a net $152 million discrete tax benefit. The Company recorded approximately $157 million of discrete tax benefit related to an intra-entity asset transfer of certain of its intellectual property ("IP") to one of its Irish subsidiaries, which occurred on January 1, 2020. The tax benefit for this intra-entity asset transfer was recorded as a deferred tax asset and represents the book and tax basis difference on the transferred assets measured based on the applicable Irish statutory tax rate. The tax deductions for amortization of the IP asset will be recognized in the future, and any amortization not deducted for tax purposes will be carried forward indefinitely under Irish tax laws. The Company expects to be able to realize the deferred tax assets resulting from these intra-entity asset transfers. This tax benefit was offset by discrete tax expense of $6 million related to equity compensation vesting. As a result of these discrete items, the Company recorded $182 million of income tax benefit on a on a pre-tax net loss of $14 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, resulting in an effective income tax rate of 1,300.0%. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also the Companys operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). The following table presents segment revenue and segment gross profit for the Company for the three months ended March 31: % of % of In millions 2021 Revenue 2020 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 263 53.6 % $ 244 56.2 % EMEA 147 29.9 % 118 27.2 % APJ 81 16.5 % 72 16.6 % Total segment revenue $ 491 100 % $ 434 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 182 69.2 % $ 144 59.0 % EMEA 88 59.9 % 61 51.7 % APJ 45 55.6 % 30 41.7 % Total segment gross profit $ 315 64.2 % $ 235 54.1 % Americas Americas revenue increased 8% as compared to the prior year. Recurring revenue was up 11% and perpetual and other revenue was flat. Consulting revenue decreased 7% as compared to the prior year. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to an overall higher mix of recurring revenue. EMEA 23 Table of Contents EMEA revenue increased 25%, which included a 8% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall increase in revenue included an increase of 38% in recurring revenue, flat perpetual and other revenue as well as an increase in consulting revenue of 3%. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. APJ APJ revenue increased 13%, which included a 9% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. An increase in recurring revenue of 26% and flat perpetual and other revenue was partially offset by a decrease in consulting revenue of 7%. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. 24 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $110 million, which increased by $100 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. Teradata used approximately $19 million of cash in the first three months of 2021 for reorganizing and restructuring its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy, as compared to $12 million in the first three months of 2020. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to improved management of working capital. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We use free cash flow (which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less investing activities related to capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software) as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchases of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities related to capital expenditures, along with free cash flow, for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 In millions 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 110 $ 10 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (4) (10) Additions to capitalized software (1) (2) Free cash flow $ 105 $ (2) Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on the Company's finance leases and long-term debt. At March 31, 2021, the Company had no outstanding borrowings on its $400 million revolving credit facility entered into in June 2018 (the "Credit Facility"). The Company repurchased approximately 2.6 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $32.94 in the three months ended March 31, 2021, and 3.6 million shares at an average price per share of $20.52 in the three months ended March 31, 2020 under the two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors. The first program (the "dilution offset program") allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. On July 28, 2019, Teradata's Board of Directors authorized an additional $500 million to be utilized to repurchase Teradata common stock under the Company's second share repurchase program (the "general share repurchase program"). As of March 31, 2021, the Company had $352 million of authorization remaining under this program to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax, were $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2020. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). 25 Table of Contents Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $404 million as of March 31, 2021 and $342 million as of December 31, 2020. The remaining balance held in the United States was $138 million as of March 31, 2021 and $191 million as of December 31, 2020. The Company considers a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the United States. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the 2020 Annual Report and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the Credit Facility or its term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. There has been no significant change in our long-term debt as described in the 2020 Annual Report. Our long-term debt is discussed in Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2020 Annual Report. Our commitments and contingencies are discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. We assessed certain accounting matters that generally require consideration of forecasted financial information in context with the information reasonably available to us as of March 31, 2021 and through the date of this report. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to, our allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, financial assets, valuation allowances for tax assets and revenue recognition. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2020 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2021. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements. 26 Table of Contents