Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ("MD&A") You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to several factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See Risk Factors and Forward-looking Statements. OVERVIEW Teradata Corporation is a global leader in analytic data solutions and services. Our analytic data solutions comprise software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services. We help customers access and manage data and extract business value and insight from data analytics across their entire enterprise. Teradatas strategy is based around our core belief that analytics and data unleash the potential of great companies allowing them to make better and faster decisions and attain competitive advantage. We empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes through analytics at scale on an agile data foundation. Through our focus on leading with business outcomes and a consultative approach, our goal is to serve as a trusted advisor to both the business and technical leaders in our customers organizations. Our business analytics solutions and technologies are ideally suited for the worlds largest companies as they have the largest and most complex analytics challenges, where scale and performance of such solutions matter. These large and complex analytics challenges also provide the largest revenue opportunities for Teradata. Analytical environments are increasing in complexity. There is more choice around analytic tools and technology than ever before, including commercial and open source solutions, as well as on-premises and cloud subscription-based options. As a result, we introduced new purchasing and deployment options with our Teradata Everywhere strategy in early 2017, providing purchasing options for our customers, which includes the ability for customers to purchase Teradata software as a subscription-based license across a range of simpler software bundles at different price points for different use cases. Customer buying behavior continues to move from predominantly capital purchases to these subscription-based purchasing options. Cloud momentum is also driving new buying and consumption expectations, shifts in data importance or significance, and a move toward hybrid architectures. This trend puts pressure on our on-premises business, however, it opens opportunities for growth within our IntelliCloud offering family, which can be deployed on the Teradata cloud and on public clouds (AWS and Azure). IntelliCloud is a comprehensive as-a-service offering that is purchased with subscription-based pricing. All subscription-based Teradata software licenses enable portability of the software license between cloud and on-premises deployment options, which de-risks customer decisions, particularly for customers with future plans to move to the cloud. Near term, the movement to subscription-based transactions will negatively impact our revenue as revenue will be recognized over time versus upfront as was the case with the capital purchase model. Over time, the business transition to a subscription-based model is expected to increase our recurring revenue. Near term impacts can fluctuate based on the speed of customer adoption, which can be difficult to predict. Longer term, we expect the year-over-year mix of revenues to normalize as more customers transition to these new purchasing models. Teradata continues to execute the Company's business transformation plan. We have realigned and continue to optimize our business outcome-led go-to-market approach to improve sales effectiveness relating to our top 500 targeted customer opportunities. We will continue to invest in and prioritize initiatives that strengthen our ability to be our customers trusted advisor for data and analytics. In 2017, we reinvested to support our transformation strategy after significantly reducing our cost structure in 2016. We are continuing to invest for Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical consulting and solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. 27 Table of Contents Teradata has introduced additional financial and performance metrics to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives. These metrics will continue to evolve as our business transformation progresses and include the following: TCore - is a metric that tracks a consistent unit of consumption across all of Teradatas products over the wide variety of configuration and deployment options, both on-premises and in the cloud. It is determined from the number of physical central processing unit ("CPU") cores in a system and adjusted/reduced by the underlying hardware platform's input/output ("I/O") throughput performance capabilities. Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - is the annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts, including subscription licenses, rental, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance and excluding managed services. Recurring Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue - revenue recognized in the period from all recurring contracts, including subscription licenses, rental, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance (excluding managed services) divided by total Company revenue. Bookings Mix - subscription bookings divided by the sum of subscription bookings plus perpetual bookings. Recurring revenue is intended to depict the over-time revenue recognition model for these revenue streams. The recurrence of these revenue streams in future periods depends on a number of factors including contractual term periods and customers renewal decisions. 2017 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2017 : Revenue decreased 7% in 2017 from 2016 to $2,156 million . The year-over-year revenue comparison was negatively impacted by the sale of the marketing applications business in 2016 as well as revenue from subscription-based transactions being recognized over time versus upfront as was largely the case for Teradata's transactions in 2016. Gross margin was 47.4% in 2017 , down from 51.2% in 2016 , which was largely due to investments in our consulting business related to Teradata's transformation and the higher mix of services revenue. Operating income was $64 million in 2017 , down from $232 million in 2016 . The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to less revenue in 2017 as a result of revenue recognized over time from subscription-based transactions and investments related to Teradata's transformation. Net loss of $67 million in 2017 versus net income of $125 million in 2016 . Net loss per share was $0.53 in 2017 compared to net income per diluted share of $0.95 in 2016 . Net loss for 2017 included a $126 million tax charge due to the enactment of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Net income for 2016 included a $70 million after-tax impairment loss for goodwill and acquired intangibles, and approximately $47 million in after-tax impacts of acquisition-related transaction, integration and reorganization expenses, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 , 2016 AND 2015 Revenue % of % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Product and Cloud revenue $ 747 34.6 % $ 923 39.8 % $ 1,115 44.1 % Service revenue 1,409 65.4 % 1,399 60.2 % 1,415 55.9 % Total revenue $ 2,156 100 % $ 2,322 100 % $ 2,530 100 % Total revenue decreased 7% in 2017 as compared to 2016. The revenue decline was primarily due to the sale of the marketing applications business in 2016, which generated $69 million in revenue in 2016, and due to customers increasingly opting for subscription-based licenses, rental of hardware, and cloud adoption. This shift is being propelled by our business transformation strategy and continues to impact our prior period revenue comparisons as 28 Table of Contents some revenue that we would normally recognize in a given period is now spread over a number of years. Product and Cloud revenue decreased 19% in 2017 from 2016 due to the sale of the marketing applications business and customers increasingly opting for our subscription-based purchase options. Service revenue increased 1% in 2017 from 2016. The increase was primarily driven by a 4% increase in maintenance revenue. Consulting revenue was up 1%. Total revenue decreased 8% in 2016 as compared to 2015. The revenue decrease included a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations as well as the sale of the marketing applications business in 2016. The revenue decline was also due to customers increasingly opting for subscription-based licenses, rental of hardware, and cloud offerings. The sale of the marketing applications business, which generated $69 million in revenue in 2016 (before the sale on July 1, 2016) compared to $153 million in 2015, had a negative impact on total revenue of 3%. Product and cloud revenue decreased 17% in 2016 from 2015 primarily due to the sale of the marketing applications business and customers increasingly opting for our subscription-based purchase options. Service revenue decreased 1% in 2016 from 2015, with an underlying 1% decrease in consulting services revenue and 3% increase in maintenance services revenue compared to 2015. Services revenue declined primarily due to the sale of the marketing applications business. Included below are financial and performance metrics for 2017 that Teradata tracked as part of its business transformation strategy: We had $1,047 million (49% of total revenue) of recurring revenue in 2017, which is 7% growth from $978 million (42% of total revenue) in 2016. Total ARR at December 31, 2017 was $1.1 billion, an increase of $126 million, or 13% over December 31, 2016. TCore increased 17% in 2017 in line with our expectations. About one-third of our increase in TCore was booked via subscription-based contracts. Gross Profit The Company often uses specific terms/definitions to describe variances in gross profit. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: Revenue Mix - The proportion of products and services that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross profit even if total revenue remains unchanged. Services Mix - The proportion of higher-profit maintenance revenue versus lower-profit consulting revenue that comprises the total services revenue of the Company. Product Mix - The proportion of various products that generate the total revenue of the Company. For example, a higher mix of data warehouse products versus Hadoop products would have a positive impact on gross profits. This also includes the mix of Company sourced and third-party products. Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period and includes such transactions as capacity on demand (COD), floor sweeps versus capacity additions, enterprise license agreements ("ELA"), hardware versus software, and discounting (new customers versus existing customers, large customers versus smaller customers). COD is a common offering used by Teradata and other information technology vendors that allows the customer to purchase extra capacity in the future, which is already delivered and integrated into their existing systems, and typically sold within 12-18 months. COD enables customers to "activate" or add capacity quickly. Product cost is recognized upon delivery with no corresponding revenue. When customers activate the COD, we record and recognize the revenue associated with the added capacity and the gross profit is recovered. Floor sweeps take place when an existing customer replaces their older Teradata hardware platform with a new Teradata hardware platform, which can result in a large revenue transaction, but typically also results in a higher mix of lower-profit hardware revenue versus higher-profit software revenue. 29 Table of Contents ELA transactions allow customers to add software capacity as needed for current production use for a period of time in exchange for a fixed fee. Additions to capacity during the term of the ELA result in lower-profit hardware-only revenue, as the software is being recognized separately through the ELA. Gross profit for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: % of % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Gross profit Product and Cloud gross profit $ 422 56.5 % $ 540 58.5 % $ 626 56.1 % Service gross profit 600 42.6 % 648 46.3 % 650 45.9 % Total gross profit $ 1,022 47.4 % $ 1,188 51.2 % $ 1,276 50.4 % In 2017, Product and Cloud gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to the impact of higher capitalized software amortization. Service gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased largely due to investments we made in our consulting organization to facilitate our new strategy. In 2016, Product and Cloud profit increased as a percentage of revenue due to favorable deal and product mix. Service gross profit improved as a percentage of revenue driven by the exiting of the marketing applications business, which had a lower service profit rate than the Data and Analytics service rate. Operating Expenses % of % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 652 30.2 % $ 664 28.6 % $ 765 30.2 % Research and development expenses 306 14.2 % 212 9.1 % 228 9.0 % Impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets % 80 18.9 % 478 76.4 % Total operating expenses $ 958 44.4 % $ 956 41.2 % $ 1,471 58.1 % In 2017, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decreased by $12 million or 2% compared to 2016. The decrease was driven by the exiting of the marketing applications business. This was partially offset by an increase in marketing spend and regional selling expense due to investments in demand creation, primarily in the Americas region. Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased $94 million or 44% in 2017 compared to 2016 due the Company no longer capitalizing certain software development costs as a result of a movement to agile development methodologies. The Company did not capitalize any R&D costs in 2017 compared to $59 million in 2016. These development costs are now expensed as incurred as R&D expense. The increase in R&D expense was also due to new strategic initiatives relating to our managed and public cloud offerings. In 2016, SG&A expense decreased by $101 million or 13% compared to 2015. The decrease is driven by the exiting of the marketing applications business and cost reduction initiatives, partially offset by higher annual incentive payment accruals. R&D expenses decreased $16 million or 7% in 2016 compared to 2015 due to the exit of the marketing applications business and cost reduction initiatives partially offset by additional spending for strategic initiatives including further investment in our managed and public cloud offerings, Teradata software-only and our IntelliFlex platform. The Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $57 million and acquired intangibles of $19 million in 2016 to adjust the marketing applications business, which was sold on July 1, 2016, to its fair value less cost to sell. In addition, the Company recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to the sale of its corporate airplane. The 30 Table of Contents Company recorded a goodwill impairment of $437 million and an impairment of acquired intangibles of $41 million in 2015, also related to the marketing applications business. Other (Expense) Income, net In millions 2017 2016 2015 Gain on securities $ $ 2 $ 57 Interest income 11 7 5 Interest expense (15 ) (12 ) (9 ) Other (2 ) (8 ) (2 ) Total Other (Expense) Income, net $ (6 ) $ (11 ) $ 51 In 2017, the increase in interest expense and interest income compared to 2016 was due to an increase in interest rates. Interest expense also increased due to the use of our credit facility. In 2016, other expense included a foreign exchange loss of $9 million related to the devaluation of the Egyptian pound. The increase in interest expense and interest income compared to 2015 was due to an increase in interest rates. In 2015, other income primarily included a gain of $57 million from sale of equity investments. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows: 2017 2016 2015 Effective Tax Rate 215.5 % 43.4 % (48.6 )% The 2017 effective tax rate was impacted by the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, making significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017; the transition of U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") was issued to address the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. In accordance with SAB 118, the Company has made its best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act in its year end income tax provision in accordance with its understanding of the Tax Act and guidance available as of the date of this filing and has recorded a net $126 million of additional income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017. The provisional amount related to the one-time transition tax expense of $145 million on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings was based on cumulative foreign earnings of $1.3 billion, which the Company expects to pay over an 8-year period. The Company also recorded a provisional benefit of $19 million, a majority of which related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The ultimate impact may differ materially from these provisional amounts due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company has made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Act. The 2016 effective tax rate was impacted by the $57 million of goodwill impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2016, all of which was treated as a permanent non-deductible tax item. In addition, a discrete tax charge of $22 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2016 for the tax impact of the sale of the marketing applications business, which occurred on July 1, 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recorded $8 million of tax expense associated with the issuance of new U.S. Treasury Regulations under Internal Revenue Code Section 987 on December 7, 2016, which clarified how companies calculate foreign currency translation gains and losses for income tax purposes for branches whose accounting records are kept in a currency other than the currency of the company. Also in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company elected to early adopt Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. As a result, the Company incurred a $5 31 Table of Contents million discrete tax expense associated with the net shortfall arising from 2016 equity compensation vestings and exercises. The 2015 effective tax rate was impacted by the $437 million of goodwill impairment charges recorded for 2015, of which $414 million was treated as a permanent non-deductible tax item. This resulted in full-year income tax expense in 2015 of $70 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $(144) million, causing a negative tax rate of 48.6%. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Effective July 1, 2016, following the sale of the marketing applications business, Teradata is managing its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with how management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: % of % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue 2015 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 1,195 55.4 % $ 1,334 57.4 % $ 1,470 58.2 % International Data and Analytics 961 44.6 % 919 39.6 % 907 35.8 % Total Data and Analytics 2,156 100.0 % 2,253 97.0 % 2,377 94.0 % Marketing Applications % $ 69 3.0 % 153 6.0 % Total segment revenue $ 2,156 100 % $ 2,322 100 % $ 2,530 100 % Segment gross profit Americas Data and Analytics $ 676 56.6 % $ 796 59.7 % $ 871 59.3 % International Data and Analytics 434 45.2 % 445 48.4 % 452 49.8 % Total Data and Analytics 1,110 51.5 % 1,241 55.1 % 1,323 55.7 % Marketing Applications % 34 49.3 % 63 41.2 % Total segment gross profit $ 1,110 51.5 % $ 1,275 54.9 % $ 1,386 54.8 % Americas Data and Analytics: In 2017, revenue decreased 10% as compared to 2016. The revenue decline was driven by our customers' focus on subscription-based contract options like cloud, subscription licenses, rental and usage-based models, which results in revenue being recognized over time instead of upfront. The majority of subscription-based transactions signed in 2017 were in the Americas region. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower, driven by a higher mix of services versus product revenue and a lower services margin rate. Service margins were impacted by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products. In addition, service gross profit was also impacted by a decrease in maintenance margin due to higher support and parts costs. In 2016, revenue decreased 9%, driven by customers' focus on less subscription-based contract options like cloud, subscription licenses, rental and usage-based models. Segment gross profits as a percentage of revenue were higher driven by an increase in product rates. The increase in the product rate was driven by favorable deal and product mix. International Data and Analytics: In 2017, revenue increased 5% as compared to 2016. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa as well as the Asia Pacific regions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was down in 2017 driven by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products. 32 Table of Contents In 2016, revenue increased by 1%, which included a 2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was led by growth in Western Europe and China. Gross profits were down due to a higher mix of service revenue, which has a lower margin profile versus product revenue. Marketing Applications: T he marketing applications business was sold on July 1, 2016. In 2016, marketing applications revenue decreased by $84 million or 55% from 2015. The decline in revenue was driven by the divestiture of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Prior to its divestiture, the overall increase in segment gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by higher rates on product and professional services. In 2015, the Company made investments to help better position the Company to go broader in the market, which resulted in lower service rates in 2015. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Teradata ended 2017 with $ 1,089 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $ 115 million increase from the December 31, 2016 balance, after using approximately $351 million for repurchases of Company common stock, and approximately $21 million for acquisitions and investment activities which were completed during the year. Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $122 million to $324 million in 2017 . The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the company's transition to subscription-based purchasing options as well as investments to support the company's transformation. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software. Free cash flow is one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: In millions 2017 2016 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 324 $ 446 $ 401 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (78 ) (53 ) (52 ) Additions to capitalized software (9 ) (65 ) (68 ) Free cash flow $ 237 $ 328 $ 281 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. In 2017 and 2016, these other investing activities primarily consisted of immaterial complementary business acquisitions and equity investment activities that were closed during these years along with the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Teradatas financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $351 million for share repurchases, net proceeds of credit facility borrowings of $240 million, repayment of existing term loan of $30 million and $32 million from other financing activities. Teradata's financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $82 million for share repurchases, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $180 million, repayment of existing term loan of $30 million and $30 million from other financing activities. The Company purchased 11.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $30.59 in 2017, 3.4 million shares at an average price per share of $24.25 in 2016, and 19 million shares at an average price per share of $34.15 in 2015. 33 Table of Contents Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first program (the dilution offset program) authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of December 31, 2017 , the Company had $190 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock under the Company's second share repurchase program ("general share repurchase program"). On February 5, 2018, Teradata's Board of Directors approved an additional $310 million of authorization, for a total of $500 million for share repurchases, which authority expires on February 5, 2021. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions, as well as merger and acquisition opportunities. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax paid for shares withheld upon equity award settlement, were $32 million in 2017, $31 million in 2016 and $24 million in 2015. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries was $1,044 million as of December 31, 2017 and $957 million as of December 31, 2016 . The remaining balance held in the U.S. was $45 million as of December 31, 2017 and $17 million as of December 31, 2016 . Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act, the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest its earnings outside of the U.S. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the U.S. and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. The Company plans to repatriate a majority of its offshore cash, and intends to use repatriated funds to pay down its revolving credit facility, repurchase shares and retain the remainder for general corporate purposes. Effective in 2018, the U.S. has moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. On March 25, 2015, Teradata replaced its existing five-year, $300 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In 2017 , Teradata chose a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $240 million in borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, which carried an interest rate of 5.0%, leaving $160 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are reported under current liabilities and are expected to be paid in the short term. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2017 . Also on March 25, 2015, Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $600 million five-year term loan, the proceeds of which were used to pay off the remaining $247 million of principal on its existing term loan, pay off the $220 million outstanding balance on the prior credit facility, and fund share repurchases. The $600 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016, with all remaining principal due in March 2020. The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus in each case a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2017 , the term loan principal outstanding was $540 million and carried an interest rate of 3.375%. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2017. Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and the $160 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, severance benefits and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If 34 Table of Contents the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations at December 31, 2017 , with projected cash payments in the periods shown: Total 2019- 2021- 2023 and In millions Amounts 2018 2020 2022 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term debt $ 540 $ 60 $ 480 $ $ Interest payments on long-term debt 36 18 18 Principal payments on short-term debt 240 240 Transition tax 145 18 36 36 55 Lease obligations 80 27 35 15 3 Purchase obligations 30 14 16 Total debt, lease and purchase obligations $ 1,071 $ 359 $ 585 $ 51 $ 58 Our principal payments on long-term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $600 million term loan and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long-term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate as of December 31, 2017 . Our principal payments on short-term debt represent the expected cash payment on our $400 million Credit Facility, of which $240 million is currently outstanding and $160 million is available. Transition tax includes one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings of $145 million. The payments associated with this deemed repatriation will be paid over eight years. Our lease obligations in the above table include Company facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services, and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. Additionally, the Company has $28 million in total uncertain tax positions recorded as non-current liabilities on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 . These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities. However, it is not expected that any payments will be due within the next 12 months. We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The Company is also potentially subject to concentrations of supplier risk. Our hardware components are assembled exclusively by Flex Ltd. (Flex). Flex procures a wide variety of components used in the manufacturing process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, Teradata utilizes preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost and delivery. Typically, these preferred suppliers maintain alternative processes and/or facilities to ensure continuity of supply. Given the Companys strategy to outsource its manufacturing activities to Flex and to source certain components from single suppliers, a disruption in production at Flex or at a supplier could impact the timing of customer shipments and/or Teradatas operating results. In addition, a significant change in the forecasts to any of these preferred suppliers could result in purchase obligations or components that may be in excess of demand. Product warranties and third-party guarantees are described in detail in Note 8Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in Note 6Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 35 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradatas Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition The following discussion of our revenue recognition accounting policies is based on the accounting principles that were used to prepare the fiscal year 2017 consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"). This standard replaces existing revenue recognition rules with a comprehensive revenue measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. Refer to Note 1, of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of recently issued accounting standards. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all deliverables of the arrangement, and in determining the relative selling price of each deliverable, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis, and applicable renewal rates for services. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods. The Company reviews the relative selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Companys recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Companys management. For the year ended December 31, 2017 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the relative selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term. Capitalized Software Costs incurred in researching and developing a computer software product that will be sold, leased or otherwise marketed are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design or for agile development activities, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause 36 Table of Contents fluctuations in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company began moving towards more frequent releases of its products, which significantly shortens the opportunity to capitalize software development costs. Our research and development efforts have become more driven by market requirements and rapidly changing customers' needs. In addition, the Company started applying agile development methodologies to help respond to new technologies and trends. Agile development methodologies are characterized by a more dynamic development process with more frequent and iterative revisions to a product releases' features and functions as the software is being developed. Due to the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, the Company did not capitalize any external use software development costs in 2017 periods due to the relatively short duration between the completion of the working model and the point at which a product was ready for general release. Prior capitalized costs will continue to be amortized under the greater of revenue-based or straight-line method over the estimated useful life. Income Taxes In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017, the Company had not provided for taxes on the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries as the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest those earnings outside of the U.S. As a result of the Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the U.S. and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. Additional information and analysis are needed to determine the final amount, if any, of the deferred tax liability considering factors such as whether non-U.S. entities are subject to withholding taxes, have reserve requirements, or have projected working capital and other capital needs in the country where the earnings were generated that would result in a decision to indefinitely reinvest a portion or all their earnings. The Company will disclose the future impact, if any, in the reporting period in which the accounting is completed, which will not exceed one year from the date of enactment of the Tax Act. We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2017 , the Company has a total of $28 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $2 million is included in current taxes payable and $14 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Companys consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability. The remaining balance of $12 million of uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes generated by the Company which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We recorded $32 million in 2017 and $26 million in 2016 for valuation allowances. Due to a change in tax law enacted in the state of California in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company established a valuation allowance to partially offset its California R&D tax credit carryforward deferred tax asset, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California R&D tax credits into the foreseeable future. Stock-based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period. We utilize pricing models, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation at the date of grant. These valuation models require the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. In addition, we issue performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that 37 Table of Contents will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon managements estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. As a result of the adoption of the FASB Accounting Standards Update - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, effective January 1, 2016, we account for forfeitures as they occur instead of estimating forfeitures at the time of grant and revising those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from our estimates. Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The Company tests goodwill by first performing a qualitative analysis to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying value. Qualitative factors may include, but are not limited to, economic, market and industry conditions, and overall financial performance of the reporting unit. If the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying value after assessing these qualitative factors, then the guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to perform a quantitative impairment test. In this test, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. Teradata reviewed two reporting units in its 2017 goodwill impairment assessment, as each operating segment was deemed as a reporting unit for purposes of testing. Based on the Company's evaluation and weighting of the events and circumstances that have occurred since the most recent quantitative test, the Company concluded that it was not more likely than not that each reporting unit's fair value was below its carrying value. Therefore, the Company determined that it was not necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in 2017. See Note 3Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets" for additional information. Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The companys estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of managements assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur. Pension and Postemployment Benefits We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations, and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2017 , a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our 38 Table of Contents pension plans by approximately $7 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $10 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference.