Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Factors that May Affect Future Results below, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Certain forward-looking statements are indicated by italics. ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations during the first quarter of 2010 and for the same period of 2009. It should be read in connection with the Companys condensed unaudited financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that May Affect Future Results The Companys expectation that its effective tax rate will return to 35% to 36% of pretax income for the remainder of 2010 compared to the tax benefit recorded in the first three month of 2010 The effective tax rate for the final nine months of 2010 may be affected by changes in federal and state tax law, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position or the Companys operating activities and/or management decisions could increase or decrease its effective tax rate. The Companys belief that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections This belief may be impacted by domestic economic conditions, by economic, political, regulatory or social conditions in foreign markets, or by the failure of the Company to properly implement or maintain internal controls. The Companys expectation that it will obtain a new line of credit similar to its current line of credit when the current line of credit expires This expectation may be impacted by factors such as changes in credit markets, the interest rate environment, general economic conditions, the Companys financial results and condition, and the Companys anticipated need for capital to fund business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity market conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash on hand and cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs, or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products or increased operating expenses or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in 10 Table of Contents the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. The Companys plans to continue to invest in research and development efforts, expedite internal product development and invest in technological alliances, as well as the expected focus and results of such investments These plans and expectations may be impacted by general market conditions, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, delays in the development of new products, technological advances, the ability to find suitable and willing technology partners or other changes in competitive or market conditions. The Companys efforts to grow its international business These efforts may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in current and anticipated foreign markets, regulatory conditions in such markets, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, changes in competitive conditions or other barriers to entry or expansion. The Companys belief as to future activities that may be undertaken to expand the Companys business Actual activities undertaken may be impacted by general market conditions, competitive conditions in the Companys industry, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position, lack of acceptance of new products or the inability to identify attractive acquisition targets or other business opportunities. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates, which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results, include the following: Accounts Receivable. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the accounts receivable balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year spot rate in accordance with guidance related to foreign currency matters. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions in cost when required. Income Taxes. At March 31, 2010, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $163,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $162,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of a $919,000 impairment charge in 2009 related to an investment in a non-marketable equity security, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $331,000 as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 as it is more likely that this asset will not be realized. The deferred tax asset related to the capital loss can be carried back three years and carried forward five years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets is not currently required. The Company 11 Table of Contents reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits taken or expected to be taken when they are uncertain. At December 31, 2009 the Company had recorded a liability of $27,000 related to an uncertain tax position which was eliminated during the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within the provisions regarding revenue recognition including: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The Company is not under a warranty obligation and the customer has no rotation or price protection rights. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Quarter Ended March 31, 2010 Compared to Quarter Ended March 31, 2009 Sales. The Company realized a 3.4% sales increase during the first quarter of 2010 with sales of $3.7 million, compared to $3.6 million in sales during the same period in 2009. Export sales were 21.3% higher during the first quarter of 2010 versus the same period in 2009 due to higher sales to both China and Mexico . IKONICS Imaging sales for the first quarter of 2010 were also up 6.9% versus the first quarter of 2009 as glass and photomachining sales surpassed 2009 first quarter levels. Partially offsetting these sales increases, Domestic shipments decreased 9.0% during the first quarter of 2010 over the same period in 2009. First quarter sales in 2009 benefitted from large private label sales. Gross Profit . Gross profit was $1.5 million, or 40.3% of sales, in first quarter of 2010 compared to $1.4 million, or 39.4% of sales, for the same period in 2009. Export gross profit percentage increased to 30.8% during the first three months of 2010 compared to 25.1% in first quarter of 2009 due to an improved sales mix. The 2010 first quarter Domestic gross profit percentage remained consistent at 46.8% compared to 46.4% in the same period in 2009 as did IKONICS Imagings gross profit percentage, which was 41.8% for the first three months of 2009 compared to 41.5% for the same period in 2010. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.2 million, or 32.6% of sales, in the first quarter of 2010 compared to $1.2 million, or 34.3% of sales, for the same 12 Table of Contents period in 2009. The slight decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects lower bad debt expense partially offset by increased travel costs. Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the first quarter of 2010 were $161,000, or 4.4% of sales, versus $167,000, or 4.7% of sales, for the same period in 2009. The decrease is due to lower legal and patent-related costs. Gain on Sale of Non-Marketable Equity Securities. The Company realized a gain of $20,000 in the first quarter of 2009 on the sale of its investment in the common and preferred stock of Apprise Technologies, Inc. The original sale took place during 2007. An additional $20,000 was received in the first quarter of 2009, which was related to a portion of the original sales price that was placed in escrow at the time of the sale for indemnification obligations as part of the agreement between Apprise and its purchaser. The Company did not have any sales of non-marketable equity securities in the first quarter of 2010. Interest Income. The Company earned $3,500 of interest income in the first quarter of 2010 compared to negligible interest income in the first quarter of 2009. The interest earned in first quarter of 2010 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consisted of $806,000 of fully insured certificates of deposit with maturities ranging from six to twelve months as of the end of first quarter of 2010. The Companys cash is also maintained in an insured checking account that does not provide for interest. Instead, the account earns credits which offset banking fees. Income Taxes. For the first quarter of 2010, the Company realized an income tax benefit of $22,000 compared to income tax benefit of $16,000 for the same quarter in 2009. The 2010 and 2009 first quarter benefits primarily relate to derecognizing a liability for unrecognized tax benefits relating to a tax year where the statute of limitations expired during the first quarter. A $27,000 liability was derecognized in the first quarter of 2010 while a $21,000 liability was derecognized in the first quarter of 2009. During the first quarter of 2010, the Company also recorded an out-of-period tax benefit adjustment of $15,000 relating to December 31, 2009 estimates for tax credits as well as the receipt of interest of approximately $13,000 related to Minnesota state income tax returns. The Company expects that for the remainder of 2010, the Company will record the provision for income taxes at an effective tax rate of 35% to 36%, as it recognizes benefits from the domestic manufacturing deduction, research and development credits, and state income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash and cash equivalents were $1,416,000 and $1,234,000 at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company generated $185,000 in cash from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to generating $431,000 of cash from operating activities during the same period in 2009. Cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of net income adjusted for non-cash depreciation, amortization, gain on sale of nonmarketable equity securities, loss on intangible asset abandonment, deferred taxes, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During the first three months of 2010, trade receivables increased by $33,000. The increase in receivables was driven by higher export sales volumes which typically have longer credit terms. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventory levels decreased $74,000 due to lower finished goods levels. Deposits, prepaid expenses and other assets increased $55,000, reflecting insurance premiums paid in advance in the first quarter of 2010. Accounts payable increased $93,000 due to of the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors. Accrued expenses decreased $122,000, reflecting the timing of compensation payments, while income taxes payables decreased $43,000 due to the payment of 2009 taxes. 13 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2010, investing activities used $73,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $68,000, mainly for two vehicles for sales persons and equipment purchases. The Company received $8,000 from vehicle sales. Also during the first quarter of 2010, the Company incurred $10,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company invested $203,000 in fully insured certificates of deposits with one $200,000 certificate of deposit maturing during the first three months of 2010. During the first quarter of 2009, investing activities used $30,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $48,000, mainly for new equipment to support the Companys new business initiatives and research activities. Also during the first quarter of 2009, the Company incurred $2,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company received proceeds of approximately $20,000 in the first quarter of 2009 on the 2007 sale of its investment in the common and preferred stock of Apprise Technologies, Inc. The Company used $69,000 in financing activities in the first quarter of 2009 to purchase 16,327 shares of its own common stock. A bank line of credit provides for borrowings of up to $1,250,000. The line of credit term runs from October 31, 2009 to October 30, 2010. The Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. Borrowings under this line of credit are collateralized by accounts receivable and inventories and bear interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during the first three months of 2010 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2010. The line of credit was also not utilized during first three months of 2009, and there were no borrowings outstanding under this line as of March 31, 2009. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures Through the first three months of 2010, the Company had $68,000 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures during the first three months were mainly for two vehicles for sales persons and equipment. The Company plans for other capital expenditures during 2010 to include ongoing manufacturing equipment upgrades and a vehicle. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150,000 for the remaining nine months of the year and will be funded with cash generated from operating activities. International Activity The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 31% of total sales during the first three months of 2010 compared to 27% of sales in the first quarter of 2009. Higher sales volumes in China and Mexico positively impacted 2010 first quarter sales volumes. Fluctuations of certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of March 31, 2010. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2010 or 2009. 14 Table of Contents Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average over 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its digital technology program. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area and expedite internal product development as well as form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company made substantial progress on its new business initiatives during the first quarter of 2010. Photomachining and sound deadening are in commercial operation and supplying product to major electronics, defense and aerospace customers. A Digital Texturing printer was placed at a beta site in the fourth quarter of 2009; it is performing to the Companys expectations and beginning to generate sales of related consumables. The digital texturing program was negatively impacted by the 2009 business failure of the Companys printer supplier, imaging Technology international. However, the Company has made arrangements with a manufacturer that the Company believes is financially strong and technically adept for sourcing future machines. The Company is producing and selling custom substrates for various inkjet applications and is currently developing, under a research contract, a proprietary film product for a major customer. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Company does not expect that the adoption of other recent accounting pronouncements will have a material impact on its financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements.