Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Companys definitive proxy statement for its 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III. PART I Item 1. Business General IKONICS Corporation (IKONICS or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota as Chroma-Glo, Inc. in 1952 and changed its name to The Chromaline Corporation in 1982. In December 2002, the Company changed its name to IKONICS Corporation. The Companys traditional business has been the development, manufacture and selling of photosensitive liquids (emulsions) and films for the screen printing and awards and recognition industries. These sales have been augmented with inkjet receptive films, ancillary chemicals and related equipment to provide a full line of products and services to its customers. These products are sold worldwide through distributors. In 2006, the Company began a major effort to diversify and expand its business to industrial markets. These efforts now include the Companys Micro-Machining business unit, which uses the Companys proprietary and patent applied for photoresist film for the abrasive etching of silicon wafers, glass wafers, industrial ceramics and composite materials. The customer base for Micro-Machining is primarily the electronics and aerospace industries. Based on its expertise in ultraviolet curable fluids and inkjet receptive substrates, the Company has also developed a patented digital texturing technology (DTX) for putting patterns and textures into steel molds 2 for the plastic injection molding industry. The ultimate original equipment manufacturer (OEM) for the Companys DTX technology is primarily the automotive industry. The Company offers a suite of products to the mold making industry. Industrial inkjet printers, which are integral to the DTX system, are manufactured and sold by strategic partners. In 2010, a first generation DTX printer was delivered and subsequently sold to a customer beta site. In January 2012, a second generation printer was sold to a North American mold maker. The Companys business plan is to sell consumable fluids and transfer films. For most markets these sales are direct to the mold maker, except in Japan and Southeast Asia, where the Company has a strong distributor. Products The Company has four primary technology platforms: Ultraviolet (UV) chemistry, film coating and construction, technical abrasive etching, and industrial inkjet printing. The Companys traditional products and new initiatives are based on these platforms and their combinations. The Companys Chromaline branded products for the screen printing industry and Ikonics Imaging products for the awards and recognition market are based on UV chemistry and film coating and construction capabilities; the Micro-Machining offering is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction and technical abrasive etching capabilities; DTX is a combination of UV chemistry, film coating and construction, and industrial inkjet printing. There is overlap and synergy in the market between the Chromaline, Ikonics Imaging, Micro-Machining and DTX product offerings, and the Company offers ancillary products, including equipment to provide customers with a total solution. The Company considers this combination of core technologies and product offerings to be unique. Distribution The Company currently has approximately 200 domestic and international distributors for its Chromaline and ImageMate screen printing emulsions and films. The Companys abrasive etching products are sold directly to end users in the awards and recognition market under the Ikonics Imaging brand. Micro-Machining products are sold either directly to users or the Company offers Micro-Machining as a service. DTX is sold to users as a system, with strategic partners providing the specialized industrial inkjet printers and the Company selling the consumable inks and transfer films. DTX sales are both direct to users and through distributors. The Company markets and sells its products through magazine advertising, trade shows and the internet. The Company has a diverse customer base both domestically and abroad and does not depend on one or a few customers for a material portion of its revenues. In 2012 and 2011, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales. Quality Control in Manufacturing In March 1994, IKONICS became the first firm in northern Minnesota to receive ISO 9001 certification. ISO 9000 is a worldwide standard issued by the International Organization for Standardization that provides a framework for quality assurance. The Company has been recertified every three years beginning in 1997. IKONICS quality function goal is to train all employees properly in both their work and in the importance of their work. Internal records of quality, including related graphs and tables, are reviewed regularly and discussions are held among management and employees regarding how improvements might be realized. The Company has rigorous materials selection procedures and also uses testing procedures to assure its products meet quality standards. Research and Development and Intellectual Property The Company spent 3.6% of sales ($630,000) on research and development in 2012 and 3.1% of sales ($512,000) in 2011. In its research program, IKONICS has developed ultraviolet light-sensitive chemistries used in the manufacture of screen print stencils, photoresists for abrasive etching and ink jet fluids and ink jet receptive films. The Company has a number of patents and patent applications on these chemistries and applications. There can be no assurance that any patent granted to the Company will provide adequate protection to the Companys intellectual property. Within the Company, steps are taken to protect the Companys trade secrets, including physical security, confidentiality and non-competition agreements with employees, non-disclosure agreements where applicable, and confidentiality agreements with vendors. Over the past few years, the Company has directed a larger portion of it research and development resources towards industrial inkjettable fluids and ink jet receptive substrates. 3 The Company has also developed proprietary products and techniques for the etching of electronic wafers, industrial ceramics and composite materials. In addition to its patents, the Company has various trademarks including the IKONICS, Chromaline, PhotoBrasive, AccuArt, Nichols, imagemate and DTX trademarks. Raw Materials The primary raw materials used by IKONICS in its production are photopolymers, polyester films, polyvinylacetates, polyvinylalcohols and water. The Companys purchasing staff leads in the identification of both domestic and foreign sources for raw materials and negotiates price and terms for all domestic and foreign markets. IKONICS involvement in foreign markets has given it the opportunity to become a global buyer of raw materials at lower overall cost. The Company has a number of suppliers for its operations. Some suppliers provide a significant amount of key raw materials to the Company, but the Company believes alternative sources are available for most materials. For those raw materials where an alternative source is not readily available, the Company has contingency raw material replacement plans. To date, there have been no significant shortages of raw materials. The Company believes it has good supplier relations. Competition The Company competes in its markets based on product development capability, quality, reliability, availability, technical support and price. Though the screen printing market is much larger than the awards and recognition market, IKONICS commands significantly more market share in the latter. IKONICS has two primary competitors in its screen printing film business. They are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources than the Company in many areas. The Company has numerous competitors in the market for screen print emulsions, many of whom are larger than IKONICS and possess greater resources. The market for the Companys abrasive etching products in the awards and recognition market has one significant competitor. IKONICS considers itself to be the leader in this market. There are significant competitors, using different technologies in the new markets being entered by the Company. The primary competition for Micro-Machining is from other machining methods, most of which are well established. The primary competition for DTX comes from old, well-established technologies based on wax and screen printing and new competition from laser technologies. Government Regulation The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local industrial laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of material into the environment and protection of the environment. The governmental authorities primarily responsible for regulating the Companys environmental compliance are the Environmental Protection Agency, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Western Lake Superior Sanitary District. Failure to comply with the laws promulgated by these authorities may result in monetary sanctions, liability for environmental clean-up and other equitable remedies. To maintain compliance, the Company may make occasional changes in its waste generation and disposal procedures. These laws and regulations have not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures or competitive position of the Company. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with the various federal, state and local regulations that apply to its current operations. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. The Company also is subject to regulations from foreign governments covering the importation of certain chemicals. The Company believes that it complies in all material respects with these regulations that apply to its current products. Failure to comply with these regulations could have a negative impact on the Companys operations and capital expenditures and such negative impact could be significant. 4 Employees As of February 23, 2013, the Company had approximately 73 full-time employees, 68 of whom are located at the Companys two facilities in Duluth, Minnesota and five of whom are outside technical sales representatives in various locations in the United States. None of the Companys employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and the Company believes that its employee relations are good. Item 1A. Risk Factors Not Applicable Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Property The Company primarily conducts its operations in Duluth, Minnesota. The administrative, sales, research and development, quality and most of the manufacturing activities are housed in a 60,000 square-foot, four-story building, including a basement level. The building is approximately seventy years old and has been maintained in good condition. The Company also utilizes a 5,625 square-foot warehouse adjacent to the existing plant building that was constructed in 1997. These facilities are owned by the Company with no existing liens or leases. The Company also owns an 11 acre property with a 35,000 square foot manufacturing and warehouse facility. The facility accommodates the Companys new business initiatives and growth plans along with some manufacturing activities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol IKNX. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the high and low sales prices for the Companys Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market for the periods indicated. High Low Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012: First Quarter $ 9.10 $ 7.03 Second Quarter 9.35 7.54 Third Quarter 9.45 7.70 Fourth Quarter 9.39 7.75 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011: First Quarter $ 8.94 $ 6.90 Second Quarter 8.75 7.46 Third Quarter 8.50 7.25 Fourth Quarter 8.77 7.30 5 As of February 23, 2013, the Company had approximately 603 shareholders. Declaration and payment of dividends is within the sole discretion of the Companys board of directors. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company declared a one-time special cash dividend of $1.00 per share, paid on December 31, 2012, amounting to $1,998,475. This was the first and only cash dividend paid in the Companys history. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not applicable Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations and financial condition during 2012 and 2011 and should be read in connection with the Companys audited financial statements and notes thereto for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, included herein. Factors that May Affect Future Results Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those summarized below, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include those identified below. The expectation that the Company will obtain a similar line of credit when its current line of credit expires in October 2013. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity or debt market conditions, macroeconomic conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash or to renew its line of credit. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products, increased operating expenses, changes to the aerospace industry or the production timelines of the Companys customers in that industry or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. The Companys plans to continue to invest in research and development efforts, expedite internal product development and form technological alliances, as well as the expected focus and results of such investments These plans and expectations may be impacted by general market conditions, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, delays in the development of new products, technological advances, the ability to find suitable and willing technology partners or other changes in competitive or market conditions. 6 The Companys belief that its Chromaline Screen Print Product and IKONICS Imaging units will continue to grow and prosper The growth and results from these units will depend on the strength of the U.S. economy overall, the cost of raw materials, new product introductions by the Companys current competitors or new competitors and maintenance of the Companys reputation for high-quality products. The Companys expectation that it will continue efforts to grow its business internationally The time management has to focus on international expansion, the sufficiency of the Companys financial resources and results of operation to support international expansion, the success of the Companys existing international operations, changes in foreign laws, and global political, social or economic events (including terrorist attacks and security concerns in general) could influence the level of the Companys efforts to grow its business internationally. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting policies and estimates which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance are denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year end spot rate in accordance with FASB ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Self-Funded Medical Insurance. Beginning in January 2012, the Company moved from a fully insured to a self-funded medical insurance plan. The Company contracted with an administrative service company or a third party administrator to supervise and administer the program and act as the Companys fiduciary and representative. The Company has reduced its risk under this self-funded plan by purchasing both specific and aggregate stop-loss insurance coverage for individual claims and total annual claims in excess of prescribed limits. The Company records estimates for claim liabilities based on information provided by the third-party administrators, historical claims experience, the life cycle of claims, expected costs of claims incurred but not paid, and expected costs to settle unpaid claims. The Company regularly monitors its estimated insurance-related liabilities. Actual claims experience may differ from the Companys estimates. Costs related to the administration of the plan and related claims are expensed as incurred. The total liability for self-funded medical insurance was $54,000 as of December 31, 2012 and is included within other accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet. Income Taxes. At December 31, 2012, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $142,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $366,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of an impairment charge that occurred prior to 2011 as described below, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $323,000 as it is more likely than not that this asset will not be realized. As of December 31, 2012 the fully reserved $323,000 deferred tax asset related to 7 the capital loss can be carried forward two years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets in not currently required. The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions under the provision of FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had no reserves for uncertain tax positions. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within SAB 104 and FASB ASC 605 Revenue Recognition: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The customer has no rotation or price protection rights and the Company is not under a warranty obligation. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2011 Sales. The Companys net sales increased 3.2% in 2012 to a record $17.3 million compared to net sales of $16.8 million in 2011. Domestic realized a 6.6% sales increase as sales grew from $6.7 million in 2011 to $7.1 million in 2012, as both film and emulsion sales were stronger in 2012 due to improved distribution in the central region of the United States. IKONICS Imaging also realized a 3.5% sale increase in 2012. IKONICS Imagings growth was mainly due to improved equipment sales volumes. Other sales in 2012 of $1.0 million were flat with 2011 sales. Other sales in 2012 benefitted from improved DTX film sales and the sale of a DTX printer. The Company anticipates that in the future, DTX printer sales will be made directly by its strategic printer manufacturing partners and not the Company. Offsetting these increases in Other sales were decreases in Micro-Machining due to a temporary purchasing delay at a large aerospace customer and a non-repeating contract the Company fulfilled in 2011 in addition to the Company deemphasizing the machining of marginally profitable electronic wafers and shifting its emphasis to the machining of composites for the aerospace industry. Weaker sales to the Middle East resulted in a 0.5% decrease in Export sales as sales dropped from $5.6 million in 2011 to $5.5 million in 2012. Gross Profit . Gross profit in 2012 was $6.9 million, or 40.1% of sales, compared to $6.7 million, or 40.0% of sales in 2011. Domestic, Export and IKOINICS Imaging all realized small gross profit percentage improvement. The gross margin percentage increases were mainly due to a combination of higher sales volumes and price 8 increases. The Other gross margin decreased from 58.0% in 2011 to 39.3% in the 2012 period due to a decrease in the higher margin Micro-Machining sales and the sale of a lower margin DTX printer which did not occur in 2011. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $5.3 million, or 30.5% of sales, in 2012 compared to $5.2 million, or 30.8% of sales in 2011. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects higher expenses to support the Companys DTX initiative along with increased Export sales expenses related to the Companys efforts to expand its presence in both Europe and Asia. Lower Domestic and IKONICS Imaging sales expenses along with a decrease in Micro-Machining consulting expenses partially offset these increases. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses in 2012 were $630,000, or 3.6% of sales, versus $512,000, or 3.1% of sales, in 2011. The 2012 increase is partially related to a $23,000 abandonment of patent applications. The Company records patent application costs as an asset and amortizes those costs upon successful completion of the application process or expenses those costs when an application is abandoned. Additional costs were also incurred for increased staffing and production trials along with higher lab supply expenses. Interest Income. The Company earned $12,000 of interest income in 2012 compared to $17,000 in 2011. The interest earned in 2012 and 2011 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consist of fully insured certificates of deposit with remaining maturities ranging from 3 to 8 months. Income Taxes. During 2012, the Company realized income tax expense of $351,000, or an effective rate of 33.6%, compared to income tax expense of $345,000, or an effective rate of 33.1%, for the same period in 2011. The income tax provision for the 2012 and 2011 periods differs from the expected tax expense due to the benefits of the domestic manufacturing deduction and state credits for research and development. The 2011 income tax provision also benefitted from federal credits for research and development. The 2012 income provision did not benefit from federal credits for research and development as these credits were not approved until after December 31, 2012. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, research and development expenditures, and a one-time dividend distribution. Cash and cash equivalents were $968,000 and $1,867,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition to its cash, the Company also held $1,442,000 of short-term investments as of December 31, 2012 and $1,835,000 of short-term investments as of December 31, 2011. The Company generated $1,182,000 in cash from operating activities during 2012, compared to generating $794,000 of cash from operating activities in 2011. Cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of the net income adjusted for non-cash depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During 2012, inventories increased by $444,000. In addition to increased finished goods levels, part of the inventory increase is related to increased raw material purchases to take advantage of volume discounts and to protect against future price increases. The trade receivables decrease of $121,000 is related to improved collections. The $42,000 increase in prepaid expenses and other assets is related to the purchases of equipment utilized for sales promotion. Accounts payable increased $44,000 due to the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors while accrued liabilities increased $58,000 due to the timing of the Companys payroll and customer prepayments. Income taxes payable increased $84,000 and the Companys income tax receivable decreased $59,000 due to timing of estimated 2012 tax payments compared to the calculated 2012 tax liability. During 2012, investing activities used $172,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $567,000, mainly for manufacturing equipment, mandatory elevator upgrades and three vehicles. The Company realized $59,000 in proceeds from the sale of three vehicles and on a like-kind equipment exchange. Also in 2012, the Company incurred $57,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon 9 successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $1,858,000 in nine fully insured certificates of deposit during 2012. Eleven certificates of deposit totaling $2,250,000 matured during 2012. During 2011, investing activities used $289,000. The Companys purchases of property and equipment for the year were $622,000. These purchases were mainly for equipment to upgrade the capabilities of the Companys DTX and Micro-Machining operations, equipment to improve product quality and capacity, mandatory elevator improvements, one vehicle and hardware to upgrade the Companys computer network. Also during 2011, the Company incurred $60,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company also invested $2,446,000 in twelve fully insured certificates of deposits during 2011. Fourteen certificates of deposit totaling $2,829,000 matured during 2011. In 2012, financing activities used $1,909,000 as the Company declared and paid a one-time special cash dividend of $1.00 per share. The total dividend paid was $1,998,000. The Company also received $89,000 from the issuance of 13,888 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options. During 2011, the Company received $71,000 from financing activities as the Company received $73,000 from the issuance of 11,500 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options. The Company used $2,100 in financing activities during 2011 to repurchase 270 shares of its own stock. A bank line of credit exists providing for borrowings of up to $1,250,000 through October 30, 2013. The Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. The line of credit is collateralized by trade receivables and inventories and bears interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during 2012 and 2011 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures During 2012, the Company had $567,000 of capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2012 were mainly for manufacturing equipment upgrades to increase capacity and improve product quality. The Company also incurred expenditures related to mandatory elevator upgrades and the purchase of three vehicles. In 2011, the Company had $622,000 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2011 were for equipment to upgrade the capabilities of the Companys DTX and Micro-Machining operations, equipment to improve product quality and capacity, mandatory elevator improvements, one vehicle and hardware to upgrade the Companys computer network. In addition, the Company transferred $227,000 of DTX equipment from inventory to equipment during the year. The DTX equipment was purchased for inventory in 2010. Instead of offering the DTX equipment for sale, the Company decided it would be necessary to keep the equipment for product testing and customer demonstrations. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2013 of approximately $725,000. The planned expenditures primarily will be for manufacturing equipment necessary for anticipated Micro-Machining aerospace business. The Company will also incur expenditures to improve its ability to test and demonstrate products. These commitments are expected to be funded with cash generated from operating activities. International Activity The Company markets its products in numerous countries in all regions of the world, including North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. The Companys 2012 foreign sales of $5,523,000 were approximately 31.9% of total sales, compared to the 2011 foreign sales of $5,556,000, which were 33.1% of total sales. The small decrease in foreign sales in 2012 was primarily due to a 20.0% decrease in sales to the Middle East. The Company is exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, and economic conditions inherent in foreign operations, and the Companys results of operations are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in 10 foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of December 31, 2012. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2012 or 2011. Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average approximately 3%- 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to its DTX and Micro-Machining programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in this area and expedite internal product development as well as form technological alliances with outside experts to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company continues to make progress on its new Micro-Machining business initiative. The Company has entered into agreements with several major aerospace companies to determine the feasibility of using its unique technologies in the production of military and commercial aircraft. The Company is currently supplying products to two aerospace companies for use in the construction of new generation commercial aircraft. Although sequestration of the Department of Defense budget and delays in the launching of new commercial aircraft fleets could adversely affect some of these sales, progress is being made on a number of its in-house feasibility projects, and the Company believes that several of these could lead to ongoing business. In anticipation of this business, the Company is expanding its Micro-Machining manufacturing capacity. The Company is also continuing to make progress on its DTX business initiatives. In addition to its growing inkjet technology business, the Company is having a good market reception to its complementary photographic technology film aimed at smaller users and has introduced a fluid for use in protoyping. The Company is currently working with its DTX customers on training, production optimization, and product improvements. The Company has been awarded European and United States patents on its DTX technologies. Domestically, both the Chromaline Screen Print Product and its IKONICS Imaging units remain profitable mature markets and require aggressive strategies to grow market share. Although there will be challenges, the Company believes these businesses will continue to grow and prosper. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements None