Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (the "2021 Annual Report"). The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a provider of a leading connected multi-cloud data platform for enterprise analytics, focused on helping companies leverage all their data across an enterprise, at scale. In doing so, we help companies to find answers to their toughest business challenges. All of our efforts are in support of our purpose of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. Our platform is composed of our data platform Teradata Vantage which is designed to run across on-premises, private cloud and public cloud environments. This platform is supported by business consulting and support services that enable customers to extract insights from across a companys entire data and analytics ecosystem. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including product expansion of our Teradata Vantage multi-cloud data platform offering, expanding our business with existing customers and adding new customers, increasing our focus on sustainability and diversity, equity, and inclusion, and driving operational excellence and agility across the company. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual value at a point in time of all contracts, including subscription, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance. ARR does not include managed services and third-party revenue. Public Cloud ARR (included within total ARR) - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts related to public cloud implementations of Teradata Vantage and does not include ARR related to private or managed cloud implementations. Cloud Net Expansion Rate - Teradata calculates its last-twelve months dollar-based cloud net expansion rate as of a fiscal quarter end as follows: Identify ARR for active cloud customers in the fiscal quarter ending one year prior to the given fiscal quarter (the "base period"); Identify public cloud ARR in the given fiscal quarter (the "current period") from the same set of active cloud customers as the base period, including increases in usage, as well as reductions and cancellations, and additional conversions of on-premises revenues to the cloud for customers active in the base period, all in constant currency; Cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the ARR from the current period and dividing by the ARR from the base period (all quarterly-dollar based); and 18 Table of Contents The last twelve-month dollar-based cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the average of the quarterly dollar-based cloud net expansion rate from the last fiscal quarter and the prior three fiscal quarters. COVID-19 Update See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the 2021 Annual Report for a discussion related to risks and impact of COVID-19 on the Company. As of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are continuing to execute our pandemic response plan, and the Teradata Pandemic Response Team is refining and executing return-to-office plans. Under our return-to-office plans, none of our employees are required to return to an office environment and can choose to continue to work remotely or under a hybrid model. For employees choosing to return to the office environment, certain safety protocols will be required to be followed. Customer-facing teams are also proactively working to identify ways to assist customers, meet service level commitments, and engage with customers via virtual events if requested by our customers. First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2022: At the end of the first quarter of 2022, ARR was $1.427 billion compared to $1.404 billion in the first quarter of 2021, increasing 2% as compared to the first quarter of 2021, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency translation. At the end of first quarter of 2022, Public Cloud ARR was $209 million compared to $124 million in the first quarter of 2021, increasing 69% as compared to the first quarter of 2021, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Total revenue was $496 million for the first quarter of 2022, a 1% increase compared to the first quarter of 2021, with an underlying 4% increase in recurring revenue. Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue increased 13%, and consulting services revenue decreased 13%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 3% adverse impact on total revenue for the quarter compared to the prior year. Gross margin decreased to 60.7% in the first quarter of 2022 from 62.5% in the first quarter of 2021, primarily due to expenses incurred as a result of ceasing operations in Russia, and the adverse impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2022 increased by 3% compared to the first quarter of 2021, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation and expenses incurred in ceasing our operations in Russia. Operating income was $68 million in the first quarter of 2022, compared to $81 million in the first quarter of 2021. Net income in the first quarter of 2022 was $36 million, compared to net income of $53 million in the first quarter of 2021. Cloud Net Expansion Rate for the first quarter of 2022 was approximately 130%. 19 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Revenue and ARR % of % of In millions 2022 Revenue 2021 Revenue Recurring $ 386 77.9 % $ 372 75.7 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 26 5.2 % 23 4.7 % Consulting services 84 16.9 % 96 19.6 % Total revenue $ 496 100 % $ 491 100 % Total revenue increased $5 million, or 1%, in the first quarter of 2022. Total revenue was adversely impacted by the loss of approximately $10 million in revenue (a significant majority related to recurring revenue) as a result of our ceasing operations in Russia during the first quarter of 2022 in support of sanctions imposed because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Total revenue growth was primarily driven by a higher mix of recurring revenue. As a percentage of total revenue, recurring revenue was 78% in the first quarter, which reflects growth of 4%, including a 2% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. On-premises customer transactions involving substantive long-term commitments resulted in revenue being recognized on a recurring annual basis rather than a recurring quarterly basis resulting in approximately 1% of net positive impact to recurring revenue in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first quarter of 2021. At the end of the first quarter of 2022, ARR was $1.427 billion compared to $1.404 billion in the first quarter of 2021, increasing 2% as compared to the first quarter of 2021, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency translation. The 2% increase in Total ARR includes the reduction we realized during the first quarter of 2022 upon deciding to cease operations in Russia during the quarter. As the Russia business was primarily on-premises, ceasing our operations in Russia resulted in minimal impact to Public Cloud ARR. At the end of first quarter of 2022, Public Cloud ARR was $209 million compared to $124 million in the first quarter of 2021, increasing 69% as compared to the first quarter of 2021, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Public Cloud ARR grew in all three geographic regions year-over-year. Public Cloud ARR growth in the first quarter of 2022 was driven primarily by expansions of existing customers. We experienced expansion activity from a high number of customers, both new (migrations from on-premises) and existing cloud customers. Many of these customers are adding new workloads onto our Vantage cloud platform while also maintaining hybrid environments on Teradata. We also continue to see new logo customers, both on-premises and in the cloud, which grew year-over-year. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other were up 13% in the first quarter of 2022, including a 4% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations, primarily due to the timing of deals and a low prior year comparison. Consulting services revenue decreased 13% in the first quarter of 2022, including a 4% adverse impact from foreign currency, primarily due to our continued realignment of our consulting resources on higher-margin engagements, both direct engagement with customers and joint engagement with partners that drive increased software consumption within our targeted customer base. Upon deciding to cease operations in Russia during the first quarter of 2022, we removed anticipated contributions for the partial period from our first quarter results and from the projections for the remainder of 2022. In addition, the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar is expected to have an adverse impact on the prior guidance we provided. As a result of ceasing our operations in Russia and the expected adverse impact of currency rates, we anticipate the following for full year 2022 outlook: Total ARR is now projected to decline in the low-single-digit percentage range year-over-year as reported, which includes the anticipated $55 million reduction of ARR related to ceasing operations in Russia. Public Cloud ARR is expected to increase by approximately 80% year-over-year as reported. Recurring revenue is anticipated to decline in the low-to-mid-single-digit percentage range year-over year as reported. 20 Table of Contents Taking into consideration the full year 2022 total revenue impact of approximately $60 million related to ceasing operations in Russia, total revenue is now expected to decline in the mid-to-high-single-digit percentage range year-over-year as reported. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 29, 2022, Teradata is estimating a 3.5%-to-4.0% negative impact from currency translation on our 2022 full-year total reported revenues. 21 Table of Contents Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2022 Revenue 2021 Revenue Recurring $ 281 72.8 % $ 282 75.8 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 8 30.8 % 12 52.2 % Consulting services 12 14.3 % 13 13.5 % Total gross profit $ 301 60.7 % $ 307 62.5 % The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by a loss of recurring revenue as a result of ceasing operations in Russia and the negative effect of foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by a higher mix of subscription-based revenue and the positive impact of upfront revenue arrangements in the first quarter of 2022. The decrease in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased as compared to the prior year primarily due to our continued strategic focus on higher-value projects. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2022 Revenue 2021 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 157 31.7 % $ 149 30.3 % Research and development expenses 76 15.3 % 77 15.8 % Total operating expenses $ 233 47.0 % $ 226 46.0 % The selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A") increase was primarily driven by investments in cloud and go-to-market operations, higher stock-based compensation and expenses incurred in connection with ceasing our operations in Russia, which was partially offset by continued cost discipline and actions to adjust our cost structure for the unplanned closure of our operations in Russia . Research and development ("R&D") expense was relatively flat year-over-year. Other Expense, net In millions 2022 2021 Interest income $ 2 $ 1 Interest expense (6) (7) Other (9) (3) Other expense, net $ (13) $ (9) Other expense, net in the first quarter of 2022 and 2021 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, as well as benefit costs on our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: 2022 2021 Effective tax rate 34.5 % 26.4 % 22 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded a total of $4 million of net discrete tax benefits, a majority of which related to the excess tax benefit derived from stock-based compensation vesting. In addition, our effective tax rate increased by 9% as a result of the forecasted GILTI tax liability, which increased as a result of the requirement in the U.S. to capitalize and amortize R&D for tax purposes, that became effective on January 1, 2022. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recorded $3 million of discrete tax benefit, a majority of which related to the excess tax benefit derived from stock compensation vesting. Effective on January 1, 2022, the U.S. tax law changed and now requires R&D expenses to be capitalized and amortized for tax purposes under Internal Revenue Code Section 174; as a result of this law change, the Company is currently forecasting approximately $12 million of tax expense related to GILTI in our marginal effective tax rate for 2022. Should Congress enact proposed legislation to defer the implementation of R&D capitalization rules retroactively by the end of the year, the Companys GILTI tax and overall effective tax rate for 2022 would be significantly reduced. We expect that a majority of our foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where we conduct our business. We estimate that the full-year effective tax rate for 2022 will be approximately 37%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction, the estimated impact to GILTI tax as a result of the requirement to capitalize R&D for tax purposes, and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2022. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 23%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also our operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by our management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). The following table presents segment revenue and segment gross profit for the Company for the three months ended March 31: % of % of In millions 2022 Revenue 2021 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 290 58.5 % $ 263 53.6 % EMEA 129 26.0 % 147 29.9 % APJ 77 15.5 % 81 16.5 % Total segment revenue $ 496 100 % $ 491 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 189 65.2 % $ 182 69.2 % EMEA 78 60.5 % 88 59.9 % APJ 45 58.4 % 45 55.6 % Total segment gross profit $ 312 62.9 % $ 315 64.2 % Americas Americas revenue increased 10% as compared to the prior year, including a 1% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue was up 13% and perpetual and other revenue was up 71% ($5 million). 23 Table of Contents Consulting revenue decreased 16% as compared to the prior year. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to a higher mix of public cloud revenue and costs. EMEA EMEA revenue decreased 12%, which included a 6% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall decrease in EMEA revenue included a decrease of 12% in recurring revenue, a decrease of 15% ($2 million) in perpetual and other revenue and a decrease of 12% in consulting revenue. EMEA revenue was negatively impacted by our ceasing operations in Russia during the first quarter of 2022 in support of the sanctions imposed because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. APJ APJ revenue decreased 5%, including a 5% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue decreased by 4% and consulting revenue decreased by 8%. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to a higher mix of recurring revenue. 24 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $151 million, which increased by $41 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to better cash conversion efficiency due to favorable working capital dynamics, primarily due to strong collections of receivables. In addition, we received a $50 million tax refund related to our Cares Act carryback claim. Teradata used approximately $10 million of cash in the first three months of 2022 for reorganizing and restructuring its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy, as compared to $19 million in the first three months of 2021. Teradatas management uses a financial measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We use free cash flow (which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less investing activities related to capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software) as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchases of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities related to capital expenditures, along with free cash flow, for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 In millions 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 151 $ 110 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (1) (4) Additions to capitalized software (1) Free cash flow $ 150 $ 105 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on our finance leases and long-term debt. At March 31, 2022, we had no outstanding borrowings on our $400 million revolving credit facility entered into in June 2018 (the "Credit Facility"). As to share repurchases, we have two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors: The dilution offset share repurchase program allows us to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent (i) cash is received from the exercise of stock options and (ii) employees purchase Teradata stock pursuant to the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The purpose of the dilution offset share repurchase program is to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to the exercise of stock options and shares purchased under the ESPP. 25 Table of Contents Our open market share repurchase program provides for the repurchase of Teradata stock periodically on an ongoing basis in open market transactions, through 10b5-1 programs, through accelerated share repurchase programs, in privately negotiated transactions, or through the use of derivative instruments, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. The open market share repurchase program will expire on December 31, 2025. On November 1, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion for share repurchases under the open market share repurchase program and on February 9, 2022 we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement ("ASR") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ("JPMorgan Chase") to purchase shares of Teradata common stock from JPMorgan Chase for an aggregate purchase price of $250 million. After giving effect to the ASR, but excluding approximately $50 million which remains at JPMorgan Chase for additional repurchases until the completion of the ASR, there is a total authority of $963 million remaining under the open market share repurchase program as of March 31, 2022. In the aggregate under the dilution offset share repurchase program, the open market share repurchase program and the ASR, we repurchased approximately 5.1 million shares of common stock at an average price per share of $48.85 in the three months ended March 31, 2022 (which includes the initial delivery of Teradata common stock under the ASR of approximately 3.9 million shares based on the closing price of the common stock of $50.89 on February 8, 2022 ) , and 2.6 million shares at an average price per share of $32.94 in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Share repurchases are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax, were $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $348 million as of March 31, 2022 and $401 million as of December 31, 2021. The remaining balance held in the United States ("U.S.") was $56 million as of March 31, 2022 and $191 million as of December 31, 2021. The Company considers a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the 2021 Annual Report and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the Credit Facility or its term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. There has been no significant change in our long-term debt as described in the 2021 Annual Report. Our long-term debt is discussed in Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2021 Annual Report. Our commitments and contingencies are discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of 26 Table of Contents estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. We assessed certain accounting matters that generally require consideration of forecasted financial information in context with the information reasonably available to us as of March 31, 2022 and through the date of this report. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to, our allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, financial assets, valuation allowances for tax assets and revenue recognition. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2021 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2022. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.