Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the "2023 Annual Report"). The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 19 Table of Contents Overview At Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company"), we believe that people thrive when empowered with trusted information. We are focused on helping organizations improve business performance, enrich customer experiences, and integrate data across the enterprise. As such, we strive to innovate and deliver trusted solutions for their toughest data and analytics challenges. That is why we built our comprehensive open and connected cloud analytics and data platform for artificial intelligence ("AI"). With our Teradata Vantage platform, underpinned by our extensive patented workload management optimization, we are well positioned to help enterprises solve business problems and deliver business breakthroughs with its capabilities to provide harmonized data, trusted AI, and faster innovation. As a result, we believe that we empower our customers - and our customers' customers - to make better, more confident decisions, engage in faster innovation, and drive positive impact within the enterprise. Teradata is recognized by industry analysts as offering a cloud analytics and data platform with next-generation, cloud-native deployment and expansive analytics capabilities. We believe we are differentiated by providing our analytics and data platform offering across a secure, multi-cloud ecosystem. Our differentiated approach spans deployments in the top public cloud service provider platforms of AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud, as well as private cloud platform instances, on-premises, and hybrid environments. We are continuing to execute on our key priorities, including supporting our on-premises customers, migrating customers to the cloud, upgrading customers from VantageCloud Enterprise to VantageCloud Lake, expanding our Teradata Vantage analytics and data platform product offering (which includes VantageCloud Enterprise, VantageCloud Lake, and ClearScape Analytics), adding new customers and expanding our footprint with existing customers, informing our customers of our AI capabilities, increasing our focus on diversity and inclusiveness, and driving operational excellence and agility across the Company. To allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, we utilize the following financial and performance metrics: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - annual value at a point in time of recurring contracts. Total Annual Recurring Revenue ("Total ARR") - annual value at a point in time of all recurring contracts, including subscription, cloud, software upgrade rights, and maintenance. Total ARR does not include managed services and third-party software. Public Cloud ARR (included within Total ARR) - annual value at a point in time of all contracts related to public cloud implementations of Teradata VantageCloud and does not include ARR related to private or managed cloud implementations. Cloud Net Expansion Rate - Teradata calculates its last-twelve months dollar-based cloud net expansion rate as of a fiscal quarter end as follows: We identify the ARR for active cloud customers in the fiscal quarter ending one year prior to the given fiscal quarter (the "base period"); We then identify the Public Cloud ARR in the given fiscal quarter (the "current period") from the same set of active cloud customers as the base period, including increases in usage, as well as reductions and cancellations, and additional conversions of on-premises revenues to the cloud for customers active in the base period, all in constant currency; and The quarterly dollar-based, Cloud Net Expansion Rate is calculated by taking the ARR from the current period and dividing by the ARR from the base period. The last twelve-month dollar-based cloud net expansion rate is calculated by taking the average of the quarterly dollar-based cloud net expansion rate from the last fiscal quarter and the prior three fiscal quarters. 20 Table of Contents First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2024: At the end of the first quarter of 2024, ARR was $1.480 billion compared to $1.506 billion in the first quarter of 2023, decreasing 2% as compared to the first quarter of 2023, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency translation. At the end of the first quarter of 2024, Public Cloud ARR was $525 million compared to $388 million in the first quarter of 2023, increasing 35% as compared to the first quarter of 2023, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Total revenue was $465 million for the first quarter of 2024, a 2%decrease compared to the first quarter of 2023, with flat recurring revenue results. Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue decreased 38%, and consulting services revenue decreased 7%. Foreign currency fluctuations had a 1% adverse impact on total revenue for the quarter compared to the prior year. Gross margin decreased to 61.1% in the first quarter of 2024 from 63.4% in the first quarter of 2023, primarily due to a revenue mix with a higher percentage of Public Cloud revenue, offset in part by improving margin rates of Public Cloud revenue as compared to the first quarter of 2023. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2024 increased 6% compared to the first quarter of 2023, primarily due to higher stock compensation and reorganization expenses in the first quarter of 2024. Operating income was $48 million in the first quarter of 2024, compared to $79 million in the first quarter of 2023. Net income in the first quarter of 2024 was $20 million, compared to $40 million in the first quarter of 2023. Cloud Net Expansion Rate for the first quarter of 2024 was 123%, compared to 119% for the first quarter of 2023. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Revenue % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Recurring $ 388 83.4 % $ 389 81.7 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other 8 1.7 % 13 2.7 % Consulting services 69 14.8 % 74 15.6 % Total revenue $ 465 100 % $ 476 100 % Total revenue decreased $11 million, or 2%, in the first quarter of 2024, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue was flat as compared to the first quarter of 2023 and included a1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The recurring revenue growth rate for the first quarter of 2024 also included a negative 3% impact from lower annual upfront software subscription revenue associated with on-premises subscription software as compared to the prior-year period as we continue our strategy of migrating on-premises customers to the cloud and specific on-premises erosions. Revenues from perpetual software licenses, hardware and other decreased 38%, or $5 million in the first quarter of 2024, primarily due to the timing of deals and a low overall volume from this revenue category, as aligned with our strategic shift towards recurring revenue. Consulting services revenue decreased 7% in the first quarter of 2024, including a 5% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, due to its association to movements in new and existing customer workloads, the consulting services revenue was also negatively impacted by the decrease in Total ARR in the period, as well as the wind-down of direct operations in China. Financial and Performance Measures Our Total ARR is composed of three main categories: (1) Public Cloud ARR, (2) ARR related to on-premises subscription-based contracts and private cloud ("Subscription ARR"), and (3) ARR related to our legacy perpetual maintenance and software upgrade rights. At March 31, 2024 and 2023 our Total ARR consisted of: In millions 2024 2023 Public Cloud $ 525 $ 388 Subscription 816 859 Maintenance and Software upgrade rights 139 259 Total ARR $ 1,480 $ 1,506 Cloud Net Expansion rate 123 % 119 % At the end of the first quarter of 2024, Total ARR decreased 2% as compared to the first quarter of 2023, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. At the end of the first quarter of 2024, Public Cloud ARR increased 35% as compared to the first quarter of 2023, including a 1% negative impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Public Cloud ARR grew in all three geographic regions year-over-year. Public Cloud ARR growth in the first quarter of 2024 was driven by greater market awareness and customer demand of Teradata VantageCloud, our public cloud offering. The decreases in subscription ARR and maintenance and software upgrade rights ARR were partially driven by customer migrations to Cloud ARR, and partially caused by specific on-premises erosions. In the first quarter of 2024, we experienced the following continuing trends as compared to the first quarter of 2023: Increasing number of existing cloud customers who are adding new, incremental workloads to the cloud. Customers expanding into additional cloud capabilities when they migrate to VantageCloud as compared to the capabilities they had in an on-premises environment. Existing on-premises customers adding new, incremental cloud workloads when expanding into hybrid environments. 22 Table of Contents Elongated deal closing cycles that have resulted in anticipated deals moving to future quarters. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 30, 2024, Teradata is now estimating a 2.0%-to-2.5% negative impact from currency translation on our 2024 full-year total reported revenues. We expect to see expansion as the primary contributor for Total ARR growth in 2024 and expansion and migration as the primary contributors for Public Cloud ARR growth in 2024. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Recurring $ 276 71.1 % $ 291 74.8 % Perpetual software licenses, hardware and other % 2 15.4 % Consulting services 8 11.6 % 9 12.2 % Total gross profit $ 284 61.1 % $ 302 63.4 % The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to a higher mix of cloud revenues versus on-premises revenue as compared to the prior-year period, offset in part by continued expansion in our cloud margin rate. Recurring revenue gross margin was also negatively impacted by decreased annual upfront software subscription revenue associated with on-premises subscription software during the period and specific on-premises erosions. The decrease in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by deal mix and the timing of revenue. Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenuedecreased somewhat as compared to the prior year primarily due to the decrease in revenue as compared to the prior-year period. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 161 34.6 % $ 153 32.1 % Research and development expenses 75 16.1 % 70 14.7 % Total operating expenses $ 236 50.8 % $ 223 46.8 % Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense increased year over year due to higher stock compensation and reorganization costs partially off-set by continued cost discipline focused on cost reductions across the Company. Research and development ("R&D") expense increased year over year primarily due to increased spending on cloud development, including AI/ML capabilities. Other Expense, net In millions 2024 2023 Interest income $ 4 $ 7 Interest expense (8) (7) Other (12) (21) Other expense, net $ (16) $ (21) Other expense, net in the first quarter of 2024 and 2023 is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt and finance leases, losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, as well as benefit costs on our pension and postemployment plans, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense is lower in 2024 primarily due to decreased foreign currency losses of $9 million as compared to the prior period. As disclosed in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), during February of 2024, we entered into a Blue Chip Swap transaction in order to remit cash from our Argentine operations that 23 Table of Contents resulted in a pre-tax loss on investment of $2 million during the first quarter of 2024 that is reported in "Other" expense in the first quarter of 2024. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The effective tax rates for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: 2024 2023 Effective tax rate 37.5 % 31.0 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company recorded $1 million of net discrete tax expense, a majority of which related to tax expense from stock-based compensation vesting. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company recorded $2 million of net discrete tax benefits, a majority of which related to the excess tax benefit derived from stock-based compensation vesting. Effective January 1, 2024, many jurisdictions where we conduct business, including several European Union members and G20 countries, have enacted a 15% global minimum tax on the income generated in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, referred to as "Pillar Two" of the Global Anti-Base Erosion rules framework that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"). We are continuing to monitor developments and evaluate the impacts of the Pillar Two rules; we do not expect the Pillar Two rules to have a material impact to our annual effective tax rate. Effective on January 1, 2022, the U.S. tax law changed to require that R&D expenses be capitalized and amortized for tax purposes under Internal Revenue Code Section 174. This requirement has an impact on global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") tax. We are currently forecasting approximately $3 million of tax expense related to GILTI in our marginal effective tax rate for 2024. We expect that a majority of our foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where we conduct our business. We estimate that the full-year effective tax rate for 2024 will be approximately 26%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction, the estimated impact to GILTI tax (including the requirement to capitalize R&D for tax purposes), and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2024. The forecasted tax rate is based on the foreign profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 22%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%. 24 Table of Contents Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata manages its business under three geographic regions, which are also our operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); (2) EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) and (3) APJ region (Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by our management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). The following table presents segment revenue and segment gross profit for the Company for the three months ended March 31: % of % of In millions 2024 Revenue 2023 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 277 59.6 % $ 292 61.3 % EMEA 125 26.9 % 117 24.6 % APJ 63 13.5 % 67 14.1 % Total segment revenue $ 465 100 % $ 476 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 177 63.9 % $ 193 66.1 % EMEA 79 63.2 % 74 63.2 % APJ 33 52.4 % 39 58.2 % Total segment gross profit $ 289 62.2 % $ 306 64.3 % Americas Americas revenue decreased 5% as compared to the prior year, including a2% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The decrease in revenues was due to a decrease in recurring revenue of5%, and a consulting revenue decrease of 10% ($3 million), as compared to the prior year. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues decreased due to a higher proportion of public cloud revenues as compared to the prior-year period. EMEA EMEA revenue increased 7%, including a1% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The overall increase in EMEA revenue included an increase of 14% in recurring revenue, partially off-set by a decrease of 71% ($5 million) in perpetual software licenses, hardware and other revenue. Consulting revenue was relatively flat year over year. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was flat compared to the prior-year period. APJ APJ revenue decreased 6%, including a 6% adverse impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue decreased by 2% ($1 million), and consulting revenue decreased by 15% ($3 million). The decline in total revenue was primarily impacted by our strategic decision to wind-down direct operations in China during the prior year. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to a higher proportion of public cloud revenues as compared to the prior-year period, as well as the impact of the wind-down of direct operations in China. 25 Table of Contents Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $27 million, which decreased by $82 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to approximately $20 million lower net income period over period, approximately $30 million from working capital dynamics, with the remaining change largely due to lower billings. Teradata used approximately $13 million of cash in the first three months of 2024 for reorganizing and transforming its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy, as compared to $15 million in the first three months of 2023. Teradatas management uses a financial measure called "free cash flow," which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We use free cash flow (which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less investing activities related to capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software) as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchases of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities related to capital expenditures, along with free cash flow, for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, In millions 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 27 $ 109 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (6) (4) Free cash flow $ 21 $ 105 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. As disclosed in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), during February of 2024, we entered into a Blue Chip Swap transaction in order to remit cash from our Argentine operations that resulted in a pre-tax loss on investment of $2 million during the first quarter of 2024 that is reported as an investing activity for cash flow purposes. There were no other material investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on our finance leases. At March 31, 2024, we had no outstanding borrowings on our $400 million Revolving Facility (as defined below). We have two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors: The dilution offset share repurchase program allows us to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent (i) cash is received from the exercise of stock options and (ii) employees' purchase Teradata stock pursuant to the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The purpose of the dilution offset share repurchase program is to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to the exercise of stock options and shares purchased under the ESPP. 26 Table of Contents Our open market share repurchase program provides for the repurchase of Teradata stock periodically on an ongoing basis in open market transactions, through 10b5-1 programs, through accelerated share repurchase programs, in privately negotiated transactions, or through the use of derivative instruments, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. The open market share repurchase program will expire on December 31, 2025. On November 1, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion for share repurchases under the open market share repurchase program. There is a total authority of $427 million remaining under the open market share repurchase program as of March 31, 2024. In the aggregate under the dilution offset share repurchase program and the open market share repurchase program, we repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares of common stock at an average price per share of $40.57 in the three months ended March 31, 2024. Share repurchases are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Other financing activities, including net share settlement for the payroll tax liability of section 16 officers (as discussed in Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds), offset by proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax was a net outflow of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and a net outflow of $7 million (including fees from the credit facility agreement) for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The ESPP proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $306 million as of March 31, 2024 and $428 million as of December 31, 2023. The remaining balance held in the United States ("U.S.") was$31 million as of March 31, 2024 and $58 million as of December 31, 2023. The Company expects that a majority of its foreign earnings will be repatriated to the U.S. Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will generally not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the 2023 Annual Report and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of the Credit Facility or its term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. On June 28, 2022, we entered into a Credit Agreement that provides for (i) a five-year unsecured term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the "Term Loan"), and (ii) a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $400 million, including a $50 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $50 million sublimit for swingline loans (the "Revolving Facility" and, collectively with the Term Loan, the "Credit Facility").The Credit Facility replaces our prior revolving credit agreement in the maximum principal of $400 million and our prior term loan agreement in the principal amount of $500 million, both of which were entered into in 2018 (the "Prior Agreements"). In connection with the execution of the Credit Facility, the $400 million term loan outstanding under the Prior Agreements was repaid in full. Our long-term debt is discussed in Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). In addition, as disclosed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), Teradata entered into an interest rate swap to hedge approximately 90% of the floating interest rate of the total $500 million Term Loan and a cross currency swap to hedge a portion of Euro currency exposure of its net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. On September 21, 2023, the Credit Agreement was amended to establish key performance indicators with respect to certain environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") targets, pursuant to which certain positive or negative adjustments would be made to various fees and applicable margin based on Teradatas performance against such ESG targets. 27 Table of Contents Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2023 Annual Report. Our commitments and contingencies are discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. We assessed certain accounting matters that generally require consideration of forecasted financial information in context with the information reasonably available to us as of March 31, 2024 and through the date of this report. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to, our allowance for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation, the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, financial assets, valuation allowances for tax assets and revenue recognition. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2023 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2024. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.