Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 16 Table of Contents Second Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the second quarter of 2017 : Total revenue was $513 million for the second quarter of 2017 , down 14% from the second quarter of 2016 , with an underlying 32% decrease in product and cloud revenue and a 3% decrease in services revenue, in part due to the sale of the marketing applications business. Gross margin decreased to 47.2% in the second quarter of 2017 from 51.8% in the second quarter of 2016 , driven by a decrease in both product and cloud and services gross margin. Operating expenses increased by 9% in the second quarter of 2017 due to the Company no longer capitalizing certain software development costs as well as additional spend for strategic initiatives. Operating loss was $1 million in the second quarter of 2017 , compared to operating income of $87 million in the second quarter of 2016 . Net loss in the second quarter of 2017 was $4 million , compared to net income of $64 million in the second quarter of 2016 Strategic Overview Teradatas strategy is based around our core belief that analytics and data unleash the potential of great companies. We empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes through scalable analytics on an agile data foundation. Through our focus on leading with business outcomes and a consultative approach, our goal is to serve as a trusted advisor to both the business and technical leaders in our customers organizations. Our business analytics solutions are ideally suited for the worlds largest companies as they have the largest and most complex analytics challenges, and therefore provide the largest revenue opportunities for Teradata. Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to this target market through a portfolio of data and analytics solutions, including the following: Hybrid Cloud : leading technology and services to deliver an analytic ecosystem deployed in a hybrid cloud architecture, including offerings such as managed cloud, private cloud, public cloud, and on premises software and hardware; Business Analytics Solutions : deliver high-value business outcomes realized by engaging with business users through solution-based selling that leverages analytic consulting and repeatable analytical intellectual property ("IP"); and Ecosystem Architecture Consulting : best-in-class architecture consulting expertise to help customers build optimized analytical ecosystems independent of technology, leveraging both open source and commercial solutions. We deliver our solutions on-premises, via the cloud, and "as a service"; offering customers choice in how they deploy a Teradata analytics environment and leverage the power of our solutions. These flexible delivery options are designed to extend our market opportunity. In support of our strategy, we are continuing to optimize our go-to-market and sales approach to improve effectiveness in demand creation and address new and expanded market opportunities, such as with our consultative business solutions and cloud offerings. We will continue investing in partnerships to increase the number of solutions available on Teradata platforms, maximize customer value, and increase our market coverage. We believe that our more consultative, solution-selling approach and portfolio of offerings that support customers choice in procuring and deploying analytics will best position us to be our customers trusted advisor and partner of choice for architecting, implementing, and managing their analytic solutions. In summary, our long-term strategic objectives are to: deliver business outcomes for our customers through technology-enabled analytics at scale, 17 Table of Contents by focusing on companies with the largest analytic opportunities, by offering market-leading hybrid cloud technology, that is enabled by a world class go-to-market sales and support team, with the ultimate goal of generating revenue, earnings, and cash flow growth. Future Trends We believe that future demand for our analytic solutions will increase based on the growth of new, high volume data sources such as sensor and machine-generated data, and based on data and analytics enabled use cases in areas such as patient service experience insights and specialty pharmacy analytics for healthcare companies, raw materials and yield optimization for semiconductor manufacturers, and natural language processing for better speech recognition and document classification to improve process automation at the retail bank. Analytic environments are becoming more complex to design and manage due to increasing types of analytic tools and techniques, multiple data management systems both on premises and in the cloud, commercial and open source technologies to be integrated, varying service-level requirements, and the escalating growth in the volume of data. This complexity drives the need for an overall architecture to manage such environments. Demand for value-added consulting and services is increasing as customers seek help with evolving their analytic architectures, rapidly deploying their analytic architectural solutions, increasingly look to purchase analytic capabilities as a service", and strive to get value out of all their data. Overall, analytics are growing in importance as global businesses seek new means to drive business value from the ever-increasing amounts and types of data. As a result, we expect that Teradatas leadership status and investments in our strategic areas of focus will position us for future growth. This anticipated growth, however, is not expected to be without its challenges from general economic conditions, competitive pressures, alternative technologies and deployment options, and other risks and uncertainties. Over the past few years, we have seen a shift in the market that included a reduction in customers large capital investments in traditional data analytic systems and related services. Specifically, customers have been focusing investments in their analytical ecosystems on products which have lower average selling prices than traditional integrated data warehouse ("IDW") environments, and changing their buying behavior with decisions shifting from IT to business users who typically want operating expense purchasing options. As a result, our revenue has been impacted by our customers focus on less capital-intensive options like cloud, subscription-based licenses, rental and usage-based models. In addition, an increasing percentage of our customers want to buy easy-to-use, vendor managed, on-line delivery as-a-service analytics rather than traditional on-premises analytic systems. One of the greatest challenges for predicting future revenue growth relates to the rate at which customers adopt and change the way they purchase and deploy analytic technologies. In the short term, we expect revenue to decline as customers shift to these new recurring revenue models where revenue is recognized over multiple years. Longer term, we expect the year-over-year mix of revenues to normalize as more customers transition to these new purchasing models. Overall, we believe that the IDW will remain a critical part of companies analytical ecosystems and Teradatas technology is highly differentiated with our ability to handle the concurrency and service-level agreements of hundreds to thousands of mission-critical users and applications. Further, we believe the Company has the opportunity for future revenue growth from both the expansion of our existing customers analytical ecosystems, from both business users as well as IT, and from the addition of new customers. Teradata has expanded our offerings as well as our pricing options to make it easier for customers to buy and expand with Teradata including flexible offerings such as availability in the cloud and subscription-based licensing programs. Our approach is to offer subscription-based licensing to provide more flexible and easier purchasing options for customers. Our subscription-based license has portability across deployment options. In other words, as business or operating needs change, that license can be originally deployed on-premises, as software only on commodity hardware that customers procure, in our managed cloud, or in the public cloud and that at a future date move the license to a different deployment option without additional payment. This flexibility allows our customers to deploy Teradata 18 Table of Contents Everywhere"". Teradata is the first company in our industry to offer database license portability for the hybrid cloud. There is risk that pricing and competitive pressures on our solutions could increase in the future as major customers evaluate and rationalize their analytics infrastructure, particularly to the extent that cost becomes the top focus and lower-cost/lower performing alternatives are more seriously and frequently considered. However, such alternatives generally do not enable companies to perform mission-critical, complex analytic workloads to address customer's needed business outcomes from large-scale analytics, discovery analytics, and data management such as those enabled by Teradatas portfolio of offerings. As the market continues to evolve, we may be challenged to generate revenue growth shorter term as customers purchase in smaller deal sizes, and more of our customers shift from upfront perpetual licenses to over-time subscription licenses at a pace which is difficult to predict. We continue to believe that analytics will remain a high priority for companies and longer term will drive growth for Teradatas leading solutions. Moreover, we continue to be committed to new product development and achieving a positive yield from our research and development spending and resources, which are intended to drive future demand. As described above, we continue to transform our go-to-market approach to better position Teradata with both business buyers and IT buyers, and to expand with our existing customers as well as add new customers. In addition, we will continue to optimize our go-to-market structure to focus on the largest analytic opportunities, and to manage our cost structure as we broaden our product and consulting services portfolio and market penetration. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the U.S. and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of July 28, 2017, Teradata is not expecting any impact from currency translation on our full-year projected revenue growth rate. Business Transformation Teradata continues to advance in the execution stage of our business transformation plan. As described above, we are strengthening our consultative approach to selling data analytics that enable high-impact business outcomes for our customers and are extending our portfolio of hybrid cloud solutions. We have realigned and continue to optimize our go-to-market approach to improve sales effectiveness and achieve better financial results. We will continue to invest in and prioritize initiatives that strengthen our ability to be our customers trusted advisor for data and analytics. Our broad-reaching transformation is driving change across our Company, including in the following key areas: Cloud - We continue to expand our data warehouse offerings in the public cloud and in Teradatas managed cloud environments. With our Teradata Everywhere initiative, we offer our customers greater flexibility and agility through the same Teradata database that we offer on-premises, in a managed cloud, public cloud, or private cloud environment. Teradata Everywhere is designed to speed time to value, save costs, and encourage analytics use throughout the organization. Through Teradata IntelliCloud, our newest managed cloud offering, we provide data and analytic software as a service (SaaS), expanding customers hybrid cloud options. We also offer services for cloud migration as well as for design, implementation and management of cloud and hybrid cloud environments. Teradata IntelliCloud is currently available in Amazon's AWS and Microsoft's Azure cloud environments as well as in Teradatas cloud, in support of offering customers choice in how they can purchase our software. On-premises data warehouse - We have introduced methods to make it easier to buy, expand, and seamlessly upgrade data warehouses. Our IntelliFlex platform architecture is providing more flexible configurations and seamless expansions of our customers IDW environments, and the software-only version of our Teradata database is allowing us to expand with both new and existing customers. Analytical ecosystem - We are adding to our data load and integration software and service offerings capabilities that manage customers' analytical ecosystems with products such as Teradata Unity , 19 Table of Contents QueryGrid , and Listener. These offerings help customers integrate data and manage their analytic ecosystem to better extract value from their data. We expect the mix of our revenues to shift toward subscription-based licenses, cloud, analytical ecosystem, and analytic consulting services over time, as these are faster growing markets, which we believe will help increase our recurring revenue over time. One of Teradatas key strategic initiatives is to enable analytics for companies by making it easier to buy and easier to grow from traditional on-premises deployments to hybrid cloud solutions. These subscription licenses and hybrid solutions offer simplified and consistent approaches with operating expense buying alternatives in addition to traditional capital intensive outlays. This strategy is beginning to move our revenues away from traditional, upfront revenue sales and deployment models to a model where revenue is recognized over time, which has contributed to a revenue decline that is expected to continue in the short-term as customers transition to these new purchasing models. Another element that is critical to Teradata's successful transformation plan is modifying our go-to-market efforts to a more consultative approach to better address the increasing relevance of business buyers and to help customers build analytical ecosystems that include our own technologies as well as open source and other commercial solutions. We have adjusted our go-to-market efforts to address these new approaches and to align with the way we believe that our customers want to buy data analytics solutions. In 2017, we are re-investing into the business after significantly reducing our cost structure in 2016. We have reviewed and rationalized the Company's expense structure and are investing for Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. Teradata has introduced additional financial and performance measures to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives, which will continue to evolve as our business transformation progresses. These financial and performance measures currently include the following: TCore - is a metric that tracks a consistent unit of consumption across all of Teradatas products over the wide variety of configuration and deployment options, both on-premises and in the cloud. It is determined from the number of physical central processing unit ("CPU") cores in a system and adjusted/reduced by the underlying hardware platform's input/output ("I/O") throughput performance capabilities. Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - is the annual value at a point in time of all of our recurring contracts, including maintenance, software upgrade rights, subscription licenses, rental and cloud and excludes managed services. Product ARR - is the annual value at a point in time of all product related and cloud recurring contracts, including software upgrade rights, subscription licenses, rental and cloud. Recurring Revenue as a Percentage of Total Revenue - revenue from all recurring contracts, including maintenance/support, software upgrade rights, subscription licenses, rental and cloud divided by total Company revenue. Perpetual Equivalent Contract Value - represents the estimated value the Company would have recognized as revenue if the customer had purchased certain subscription licenses, rental or cloud under historical purchasing practices ( i.e. , under perpetual license purchasing options) and is calculated as follows: The value is based only on new incremental contracts with a minimum 1-year commitment that are executed during the period. For software subscription license and rental agreements, we apply the calculated discount for each transaction to the perpetual list prices for software and hardware. 20 Table of Contents For cloud offerings, we apply the calculated discount for the transaction to the perpetual list prices for software only, excluding charges for hosting, infrastructure and support services. For all transactions, we exclude maintenance, software upgrades and recognized revenue in the period. In all instances, the perpetual equivalent value cannot exceed the contract value of the applicable transaction. Business Consulting Revenue Growth - revenue growth from our strategic service offerings around analytics consulting and business consulting. Although the revenue from Business Consulting represents a small percent of total Company revenue, it is a leading indicator of future TCore (consumption) growth and measures our effectiveness of becoming a Trusted Advisor within our customers and targeted prospects. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 Revenue % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Product and cloud revenue $ 166 32.4 % $ 243 40.6 % Service revenue 347 67.6 % 356 59.4 % Total revenue $ 513 100 % $ 599 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $86 million or 14% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 , in part due to the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Product and cloud revenue decreased 32% in the second quarter of 2017 from the prior-year period. As discussed under the future trends section of this MD&A, our revenue has been impacted by our customers' focus on less capital intensive buying options like cloud, subscription-based licenses, rental and usage-based models. We closed approximately $58 million of perpetual equivalent contract value in the quarter. This shift is being addressed by our business transformation strategy and continues to impact our quarterly revenue comparisons as some revenue that we would normally recognize in a given quarter may now be spread over a number of periods. Services revenue decreased 3% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in services was in large part due to the sale of the marketing applications business. Included below are financial and performance growth metrics for the second quarter of 2017 that Teradata is tracking as part of its business transformation strategy: We had $257 million (50% of total revenue) of recurring revenue in the second quarter of 2017, which is 7% growth (in constant currency) from $243 million (41% of total revenue) in the second quarter of 2016. We expect recurring revenue to grow high single digits in 2017. Total Business Consulting revenue increased 24% from the second quarter of 2016. We expect Business Consulting revenue to grow approximately 20% in 2017. We expect approximately $225 million to $250 million of perpetual equivalent contract value during 2017. We had $108 million of perpetual equivalent contract value in the first half of 2017. We expect ARR of $1.1 billion by the end of the year with approximately one third of that being product ARR. We expect product ARR to grow approximately 25% for 2017. We expect TCore growth of almost 20% from our 2016 year-end installed base. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Product and cloud gross profit $ 94 56.6 % $ 142 58.4 % Service gross profit 148 42.7 % 168 47.2 % Total gross profit $ 242 47.2 % $ 310 51.8 % 21 Table of Contents The product and cloud gross profit variance was driven by incremental amortization of previously capitalized software development costs, offset by the impact of product and deal mix. During the second quarter of 2017 we had more customers purchasing our IntelliFlex offering rather than our prior 2000 Series appliance, resulting in increased margins. Additionally, the second quarter of 2016 included a significant low margin hardware only transaction. Service gross profit was negatively impacted by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products. Service gross profit was also impacted by routine consulting projects where we incurred and expensed certain consulting services costs before we will recognize the corresponding revenue in addition to lower utilization in the Americas region. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 165 32.2 % $ 172 28.7 % Research and development expenses 78 15.2 % 51 8.5 % Total operating expenses $ 243 47.4 % $ 223 37.2 % The decrease in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense was primarily due to the exit of the marketing applications business. This was partially offset by an increase in marketing spend and regional selling expense due to investments in demand creation, primarily in the Americas region, as well as additional spend to support our new strategy. The overall decrease in SG&A was more than offset by an increase in research and development ("R&D") expenses primarily due to strategic investments in managed and public cloud in addition to the impact from the Company no longer capitalizing certain software development costs as a result of a movement to agile development methodologies. The Company did not capitalize any R&D costs in the second quarter of 2017 compared to $17 million in the second quarter of 2016. These development costs are now expensed as incurred as R&D expense. Other Expense, net In millions 2017 2016 Interest income $ 3 $ 2 Interest expense (4 ) (4 ) Other (1 ) Other expense, net $ (2 ) $ (2 ) Other expense in the second quarter of 2017 and 2016 is comprised of interest expense on long-term debt partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The Companys intention is to permanently reinvest its foreign earnings outside of the U.S. As a result, the effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2017 to be approximately 5%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2017. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 22%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 35% in the U.S. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and June 30, 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 Effective tax rate (33.3 )% 24.7 % 22 Table of Contents For the three months ended June 30, 2017, no material non-recurring discrete tax items were recorded. Discrete tax items related to interest accruals on uncertain tax positions and equity based compensation resulted in income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2017 of $1 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $3 million, causing a negative tax rate of (33.3)%. For the three months ended June 30, 2016, there was a $1 million favorable tax benefit recognized due to the release of a reserve taken for a previously uncertain tax position. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Effective July 1, 2016, following the sale of the marketing applications business, Teradata is managing its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended June 30 : % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 271 52.8 % $ 325 54.3 % International Data and Analytics 242 47.2 % 239 39.9 % Total Data and Analytics 513 100.0 % 564 94.2 % Marketing Applications % 35 5.8 % Total segment revenue $ 513 100 % $ 599 100 % Segment gross profit Americas Data and Analytics $ 158 58.3 % $ 194 59.7 % International Data and Analytics 107 44.2 % 121 50.6 % Total Data and Analytics 265 51.7 % 315 55.9 % Marketing Applications % 17 48.6 % Total segment gross profit $ 265 51.7 % $ 332 55.4 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 17% in the second quarter of 2017 from the second quarter of 2016 . As discussed in the future trends section of this MD&A, the revenue decline was driven by our customers' focus on less capital-intensive options as well as customers moving to our cloud, subscription licenses, rental and usage-based options. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues were lower driven by a higher mix of services versus product revenue and a lower services margin rate. Service margins were impacted by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products in addition to lower utilization. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 1% in the second quarter of 2017 from the second quarter of 2016 , which included a 3% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa as well as the Asia Pacific region in the second quarter of 2017 as compared to second quarter of 2016. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues were down in the second quarter of 2017 driven by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products. Additionally, similar to the first quarter of 2017, we continued to 23 Table of Contents experience an increase in consulting projects where we incurred and expensed certain consulting services costs before we will recognize the corresponding revenue. Marketing Applications: The marketing applications business was sold on July 1, 2016. Results of Operations for the Six months ended June 30, 2017 Compared to the Six months ended June 30, 2016 Revenue % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Product and cloud revenue $ 332 33.1 % $ 451 39.4 % Service revenue 672 66.9 % 693 60.6 % Total revenue $ 1,004 100 % $ 1,144 100 % Teradata revenue decreased $140 million or 12% during the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016 , in part due to the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. Product and cloud revenue decreased 26% in the first six month of 2017 from the prior-year period. In addition, as discussed under the future trends section of this MD&A, our revenue has been impacted by our customers' focus on less capital intensive buying options as well as customers moving to our cloud, subscription-based licenses, rental and usage-based options. We closed approximately $108 million of perpetual equivalent contract value for these subscription-based options in the six months ended June 30, 2017. This shift is being addressed by our business transformation strategy and continues to impact our prior period revenue comparisons as some revenue that we would normally recognize in a given period may now be spread over a number of periods. Services revenue decreased 3% in the first six months of 2017 compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in services was in large part due to the sale of the marketing applications business. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Product and cloud gross profit $ 184 55.4 % $ 261 57.9 % Service gross profit 282 42.0 % 318 45.9 % Total gross profit $ 466 46.4 % $ 579 50.6 % The product and cloud gross profit variance was driven by incremental amortization of previously capitalized software development costs partially offset by favorable product and deal mix. During the first half of 2017 we had more customers purchasing our IntelliFlex offering rather than our prior 2000 Series appliance, resulting in increased margins. The prior period of 2016 included a significant low margin hardware only deal. Service gross profit was negatively impacted by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products. Service gross profit was also impacted by routine consulting projects where we incurred and expensed certain consulting services costs before we will recognize the corresponding revenue in addition to lower utilization in the Americas region. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 320 31.9 % $ 346 30.2 % Research and development expenses 148 14.7 % 108 9.4 % Impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and other assets % 80 7.0 % Total operating expenses $ 468 46.6 % $ 534 46.6 % 24 Table of Contents The decrease in SG&A expense was primarily due to the exit of the marketing applications business. This was partially offset by an inventory charge and other transformation associated costs related to the discontinuation of our prior hardware platforms as well as an increase in marketing spend and regional selling expense due to investments in demand creation, primarily in the Americas region. R&D expenses were higher primarily due to the impact from the Company no longer capitalizing certain software development costs as a result of a movement to agile development methodologies. The Company did not capitalize any R&D costs in the first six months of 2017 compared to $33 million in the prior period. These development costs are now expensed as incurred as R&D expense. The increase in R&D expense is also due to new strategic initiatives around managed and public cloud in the current period. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $57 million and acquired intangible assets of $19 million related to the sale of the marketing applications business. The Company also recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to its corporate plane that was classified as held for sale. Other Expense, net In millions 2017 2016 Interest income $ 5 $ 3 Interest expense (7 ) (7 ) Other (1 ) (1 ) Other expense, net $ (3 ) $ (5 ) Other expense in the first six months of 2017 and 2016 is comprised of interest expense on long-term debt partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 Effective tax rate (20.0 )% 55.0 % For the six months ended June 30, 2017, no material non-recurring discrete tax items were recorded. Discrete tax items related to interest accruals on uncertain tax positions and equity based compensation resulted in income tax expense in the first six months of 2017 of $1 million, on a pre-tax net loss of $5 million, causing a negative tax rate of (20.0)%. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, there were discrete tax items resulting from the $76 million impairment recorded in the first quarter of 2016, of which $57 million was related to non-deductible goodwill and $19 million was related to intangible assets for which $6 million of deferred tax benefit had been recorded. In addition, there was a $2 million favorable tax benefit recognized due to the release of a reserve taken for a previously uncertain tax position. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the six months ended June 30 : 25 Table of Contents % of % of In millions 2017 Revenue 2016 Revenue Segment revenue Americas Data and Analytics $ 538 53.6 % $ 620 54.2 % International Data and Analytics 466 46.4 % 455 39.8 % Total Data and Analytics 1,004 100.0 % 1,075 94.0 % Marketing Applications % 69 6.0 % Total segment revenue $ 1,004 100 % $ 1,144 100 % Segment gross profit Americas Data and Analytics $ 309 57.4 % $ 369 59.5 % International Data and Analytics 207 44.4 % 223 49.0 % Total Data and Analytics 516 51.4 % 592 55.1 % Marketing Applications % 34 49.3 % Total segment gross profit $ 516 51.4 % $ 626 54.7 % Americas Data and Analytics: Revenue decreased 13% in the first six months of 2017 as compared to the first six months of 2016 . As discussed in the future trends section of this MD&A, the revenue decline was driven by our customers' focus on less capital-intensive options like cloud, subscription licenses, rental and usage-based models. The majority of subscription-based transactions signed in the first half of 2017 were in the Americas region. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues were lower driven by a higher mix of services versus product revenue and a lower services margin rate. Service margins were impacted by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products in addition to lower utilization. International Data and Analytics: Revenue increased 2% in the first six months of 2017 from the first six months of 2016 , which included a 3% adverse revenue impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was driven by improved revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa as well as the Asia Pacific region in the first six months of 2017 as compared to first six months of 2016. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues were down in the first six months of 2017 driven by investments that we are making in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's products as well as an increase in consulting projects where we incurred and expensed certain consulting services costs before we will recognize the corresponding revenue. Marketing Applications: The marketing applications business was sold on July 1, 2016. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $40 million in the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to our net loss (adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation and impairment of goodwill and other assets), which was partially offset by strong collections of receivables. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. 26 Table of Contents The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Six Months Ended June 30, In millions 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 309 $ 349 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (30 ) (17 ) Additions to capitalized software (4 ) (36 ) Free cash flow $ 275 $ 296 In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company began moving towards more frequent releases of its products, which significantly shortens the opportunity to capitalize software development costs. Due to the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, the Company does not anticipate capitalizing significant amounts of external use software development costs in future periods due to the relatively short duration between the completion of the working model and the point at which a product is ready for general release. These costs are currently expensed as research and development costs and are included as a component of cash provided by operating activities. This change does not impact the methodology of the free cash flow calculation. Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. For the first six months ended June 30, 2017, other investing activities included $17 million for an immaterial acquisition and $1 million o f additional release of funds from a previous acquisition. For the first six months ended June 30, 2016 , other investing activities included $4 million o f additional release of funds from previous acquisitions. Teradatas financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on long-term debt. The prior period also included payments on credit facility borrowings. At June 30, 2017 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facility. The Company purchased 5.1 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $29.40 in the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2.6 million shares at an average price per share of $23.70 in the six months ended June 30, 2016 under the two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors. The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of June 30, 2017 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $382 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. The Company intends to repurchase up to $300 million a dditional shares of its stock under the general share repurchase program in the second half of the year. Shares will be purchased with cash from U.S. operations as well as funds provided through Teradatas revolving credit facility. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options were $12 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and $19 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries was $1,036 million as of June 30, 2017 and $957 million as of December 31, 2016 . The remaining balance held in the U.S. was $49 million as of June 30, 2017 and $17 million as of December 31, 2016 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and possible foreign withholding taxes. As of June 30, 2017 , we have not provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on approximately $1.3 billion of foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital 27 Table of Contents expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2016 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. Teradata's term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of June 30, 2017 , the term loan principal outstanding was $555 million and carried an interest rate of 2.6250% . Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $1 million are being amortized over the five-year term of the loan. Teradata's Credit Facility has a borrowing capacity of $400 million . The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of June 30, 2017 , the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Unamortized deferred costs on the original credit facility and new lender fees of approximately $1 million are being amortized over the five-year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of June 30, 2017. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2016 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2016 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the six months ended June 30, 2017 . 28 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.