Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future plans and objectives and results. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed elsewhere in this report and under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, as updated in our subsequent reports filed with the SEC, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations during the first quarter of 2017 and for the same period of 2016. It should be read in connection with the Companys condensed unaudited financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates, which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results, include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and 9 Table of Contents maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year-end spot rate in accordance with FASB ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters . The Company also maintains a provision for any customer related returns based upon historical experience of actual returns and any specifically identified product issues, refunds or credits. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions from cost when required. Income Taxes. Deferred taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as long-term on a net basis. The Company follows the accounting standard on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under this guidance, the Company may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes also addresses derecognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, and accounting in interim periods. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes, which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within Staff Accounting Bulletin 104 and FASB ASC 605 Revenue Recognition : (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices); (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete; (c) a fixed or determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions); and (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment). 10 Table of Contents Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The customer has no rotation or price protection rights and the Company is not under a warranty obligation. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Quarter Ended March 31, 2017 Compared to Quarter Ended March 31, 2016 Sales. The Companys 2017 first quarter sales of $3.6 million were 9.6% lower than the 2016 first quarter sales of $4.0 million. Export 2017 first quarter sales decreased by $188,000, or 15.1%, compared to the same period last year as the Company realized lower sales in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Part of this decrease is timing related, and the Company expects to recover a portion of the first quarter sales shortfall in the second quarter of 2017. IKONICS Imaging sales also decreased by 11.4% for the period from $1.1 million in 2016 to $990,000 in 2017 as 2016 benefitted from a large initial order by a newly acquired customer. AMS realized a drop in sales from $222,000 in first quarter of 2016 to $165,000 in 2017. AMSs largest customer has temporarily curtailed orders due to an overstocking in the supply chain. The Company expects this slowdown to continue well into the second quarter of 2017. Lower equipment and film sales resulted in 3.7% decrease in first quarter Domestic sales as sales decreased from $1.4 million in 2016 to $1.3 million in 2017. Partially offsetting these sales decreases was an increase in DTX sales of 49.9%, or $38,000, in the first quarter of 2017 versus the same period in 2016 due to an increase in orders from DTXs largest customer. Gross Profit . Gross profit was $1.1 million, or 30.0% of sales, in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $1.3 million, or 32.3% of sales, for the same period in 2016. IKONICS Imaging gross margin for 2017 was unfavorably impacted by lower sales volumes, and a decrease in high margin film sales as its first quarter gross margin percentage decreased from 51.7% in 2016 to 47.1% in 2017. Lower sales volumes negatively affected both the Export and AMS gross margins in the first quarter of 2017 compared to same period in 2016 while a decrease in Domestic high-margin film sales resulted in Domestics gross margin decreasing from 37.5% in first quarter of 2016 to 36.6% in 2017. The DTX gross margin which improved to 69.2% in the first quarter of 2017 from 53.9% in first quarter of 2016 benefitted from an increase in high-margin film sales. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.5 million, or 41.6% of sales, in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $1.4 million, or 35.9% of sales, for the same period in 2016. The first quarter 2017 increase in selling, general and administrative expense is related to higher trade show and promotional expenses along with increased international sales consulting expenses. Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the first quarter of 2017 were $166,000, or 4.6% of sales, versus $178,000, or 4.4%, of sales for the same period in 2016. The decrease is related to lower supplies, compliance and production trial expenses. Income Taxes. For the first three months of 2017, the Company realized an income tax benefit of $223,000, or an effective rate of 37.0%, compared to income tax benefit of $127,000, or an effective rate of 39.8%, for the same period in 2016. The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2017 over 2016 is primarily due to higher pre-tax loss for the current year and the impact of non-deductible items. In 2017, the unfavorable non-deductible items decreased the effective tax rate due to estimated pre-tax losses. The income tax provision for the 2017 and 2016 periods differ from expected tax benefit due to unfavorable non-deductible items offset by the generation of research and development tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outside of the building expansion, for which $3.4 million in financing was obtained during 2016, the Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. 11 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents were $608,000 and $1.0 million at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Operating activities used $245,000 in cash during the first three months of 2017 compared to $156,000 of cash used in operating activities during the same period in 2016. Cash used in operating activities is primarily the result of net loss adjusted for non-cash depreciation, amortization, loss on sale and disposal of property, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During the first three months of 2017, the decrease in sales for the first quarter resulted in a $406,000 decrease in trade receivables. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventories increased by $246,000 due to higher raw material and finished good levels. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $30,000, reflecting insurance premiums paid in advance. Accounts payable increased by $112,000 due to the timing of vendor payments. Accrued expenses decreased by $120,000, reflecting the timing of compensation payments while income taxes receivable increased by $214,000 due to the timing of estimated tax payments compared to the calculated 2017 tax liability. During the first three months of 2016, the increase in sales for the first quarter along with the timing of collections resulted in a $56,000 increase in trade receivables. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Inventories increased by $134,000 due to higher raw material levels. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $96,000, reflecting insurance premiums paid in advance. Accounts payable increased by $171,000 due to the timing of payments related to construction accounts payable and the timing of vendor payments. Accrued expenses increased by $110,000, reflecting the timing of compensation payments while income taxes receivable increased by $139,000 due to the timing of estimated tax payments compared to the calculated 2016 tax liability. During the first three months of 2017, cash used in investing activities was $160,000. The Company purchased five certificates of deposits totaling $1.2 million. Five certificates of deposits totaling $1.1 million matured during the first three months of 2017. The Companys purchases of property and equipment of $60,000 were mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities. Also, during the first three months of 2017, the Company incurred $8,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process During the first three months of 2016, cash used in investing activities was $1,031,000. The Companys purchases of property and equipment totaled $1,018,000. Total building expansion expenditures were $864,000, but $82,000 of the expenditures were included as part of construction payable and not as cash used in investing activities. Similarly, expenditures on the new ERP system in the first quarter of 2016 were $81,000 of which $14,000 was included as part of construction payable and not as cash used in investing activities. The remaining capital expenditures were mainly for upgrades to improve AMS production and process capabilities. Also, during the first three months of 2016, the Company incurred $14,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. In addition, the Company sold a piece of equipment for $1,000. Related to the Companys loan, the Company made principal payments of $35,000 during the first three months of 2017. During the first three months of 2016, the Company received $4,000 from financing activities from the issuance of 500 shares of common stock due to the exercise of stock options. There were no exercises of stock options during the first three months of 2017. A bank line of credit exists providing for borrowings of up to $2,050,000 and expires on May 31, 2017. The line of credit is collateralized by the Companys assets and bears interest at 1.8 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during the first three months of 2017 or 2016 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit, and the Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and secured through debt financing, and short-term investments, along with the Companys capacity for additional debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company 12 Table of Contents also believes that it is unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations given its excess cash and available line of credit. Capital Expenditures Through the first three months of 2017, the Company incurred $60,000 of capital expenditures mainly for improvements to production and process capabilities. The Company expects additional capital expenditures in 2017 of approximately $530,000 mainly for AMS process improvements, enhancements to emulsion and film production and replacement automobiles for sales personnel. Currently, the Company expects to fund its capital expenditures with existing cash and cash generated from operating activities. International Activity The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 29% of total sales during the first three months of 2017 compared to 31% of sales for the first three months of 2016. Export sales volume for the first three months of 2017 were down compared to the same period in 2016 due to a decrease in sales in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Part of this decrease is timing related and the Company anticipates sales increasing in the second quarter of 2017. The fluctuations of certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations, as the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world, although a strong U.S. dollar does make the Companys products less competitive internationally. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of foreign currency translation or transaction exposures, as management does not believe this to be a significant risk based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of March 31, 2017. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2017 or 2016. Future Outlook IKONICS has spent an average of approximately 4.0% of annual sales in research and development and has made capital expenditures related to new products and programs. The Company plans to maintain its efforts in these areas to expedite internal product development as well as to form technological alliances with outside entities to commercialize new product opportunities. The Company continues to make progress on its AMS business initiative. Although AMS is experiencing a short-term drop in sales due to a temporary inventory overstocking by a major customer, the Company anticipates growth over the long term. The Company has two long-term agreements in place for its technology with major aerospace companies and is negotiating a third. In anticipation of this growing business, the Company increased its AMS capacity with a 27,300 square foot expansion at its Morgan Park site in 2016. The Company is also continuing to pursue DTX-related business initiatives and anticipates the sale of two DTX printers in the second quarter of 2017. In addition to making efforts towards growing the inkjet technology business, the Company offers a range of products for creating texture surfaces and has introduced a fluid for use in prototyping. The Company is currently working on production improvements to enhance its customer offerings. The Company has been awarded European, Japanese, and United States patents on its DTX technologies. The Company has also modified its DTX technology to enter into the market for prototyping. Both the Domestic and IKONICS Imaging units remain profitable in mature markets. Although these business units require aggressive strategies to grow market share, both are developing new products and business relationships that we believe will contribute to growth. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, 13 Table of Contents the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. However, the strong U.S. dollar has made this challenging. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Revenue Recognition (Topic 605 ), and requires entities to recognize revenue in a way that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the adoption of ASU 2014-09 to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. Earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The standard permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). The standard also requires expanded disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Additionally, qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required about customer contracts, significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from the costs to obtain or fulfill a contract. While the Company is still in the process of evaluating the effect of adoption on its financial statements and is currently assessing its contracts with customers, the Company anticipates that it will expand its financial statement disclosures in order to comply with the new standard. The Company has established a timeline and process to evaluate the impact, transition and disclosure requirements of the ASU and believes the timeline is sufficient to allow the Company to effectively implement the new standard. The Company has not yet concluded on a transition method upon adoption, but plans to select a transition method by the fourth quarter of 2017. During February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . ASU No. 2016-02 was issued to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing all lease transactions (with terms in excess of 12 months) on the balance sheet as a lease liability and a right-of-use asset (as defined). ASU No. 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with earlier application permitted. Upon adoption, the lessee will apply the new standard retrospectively to all periods presented or retrospectively using a cumulative effect adjustment in the year of adoption. The Company is currently assessing the effect that ASU No. 2016-02 will have on its financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements.