Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. First Quarter Financial Overview As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant financial items for the first quarter of 2018 : Total revenue was $506 million for the first quarter of 2018 , up 3% from the first quarter of 2017 , with an underlying 11% increase in recurring revenue and a 5% increase in consulting services revenue offset by a 23% decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware revenue as the Company's business shifts to subscription-based transactions. Gross margin decreased to 44.1% in the first quarter of 2018 from 45.8% in the first quarter of 2017 , due to higher mix of hardware revenue recognized in the quarter. The increased mix shift to hardware is due to more of the Companys software license revenue being recognized over time in subscription-based transactions. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2018 increased by 1% compared to the first quarter of 2017 . Operating loss was $4 million in the first quarter of 2018 , compared to break-even in the first quarter of 2017 . Net loss in the first quarter of 2018 was $7 million , compared to $2 million in the first quarter of 2017 . Overview Teradata Corporation is a global leader in analytic data solutions and services. Our analytic data solutions comprise software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services. We help customers access and manage data and extract business value and insights from data analytics across their entire enterprise. Teradatas strategy is based around our core belief that analytics and data unleash the potential of great companies, allowing them to make better and faster decisions and attain a competitive advantage. We empower companies to achieve high-impact business outcomes through analytics at scale on an agile data foundation. Through our focus on leading with business outcomes and a consultative approach, our goal is to serve as a trusted advisor to both the business and technical leaders in our customers organizations. Our business analytics solutions and technologies are ideally suited for the worlds largest companies as they have the largest and most complex analytics challenges, where scale and performance of such solutions matter. These large and complex analytics challenges also provide the largest revenue opportunities for Teradata. Analytical environments are increasing in complexity. There is more choice around analytic tools and technology than ever before, including commercial and open source solutions, as well as on-premises and cloud subscription-based options. As a result, we recently introduced new purchasing and deployment options with our Teradata Everywhere strategy, providing purchasing options for our customers, which include the ability for customers to purchase Teradata software as a subscription-based license across a range of simpler software bundles at different price points for different use cases. All subscription-based Teradata software licenses enable portability of the software license between cloud and on-premises deployment options, which de-risks customer decisions, particularly for customers with future plans to move to the cloud. Customer buying behavior continues to move from predominantly capital purchases to these subscription-based purchasing options. 20 Table of Contents In the near term, the movement to subscription-based transactions is negatively impacting the timing of our reported revenue because revenue for subscription-based transactions is recognized over time versus upfront as was the case with the capital purchase model. However, the business transition to a subscription-based model is expected to increase our recurring revenue. Near term impacts can fluctuate based on the speed of customer adoption, which can be difficult to predict. In the longer term, we expect the year-over-year mix of revenues to normalize as more customers transition to these new purchasing and deployment options. We are continuing to invest for Teradatas future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical consulting and solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure. Teradata has introduced additional financial and performance metrics to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives. These metrics will continue to evolve as our business transformation progresses and include the following: Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - is annual contract value for all active and contractually binding term-based contracts at the end of a period. It includes maintenance, software upgrade rights, cloud, subscription, rental and managed services. Bookings Mix - subscription bookings divided by the sum of subscription bookings plus perpetual bookings. TCore - is a metric that tracks a consistent unit of consumption across all of Teradatas products over the wide variety of configuration and deployment options, both on-premises and in the cloud. It is determined from the number of physical central processing unit ("CPU") cores in a system and adjusted/reduced by the underlying hardware platform's input/output ("I/O") throughput performance capabilities. Recurring revenue is intended to depict the over-time revenue recognition model for these revenue streams. The recurrence of these revenue streams in future periods depends on a number of factors including contractual periods and customers renewal decisions. As a portion of the Companys operations and revenue occur outside the United States ("U.S."), and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of April 27, 2018, Teradata is expecting two percentage points of positive impact from currency translation on our full year projected revenue growth rate. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Revenue % of % of In millions 2018 Revenue 2017 Revenue Recurring $ 302 59.7 % $ 273 55.6 % Perpetual software licenses and hardware 69 13.6 % 90 18.3 % Consulting services 135 26.7 % 128 26.1 % Total revenue $ 506 100 % $ 491 100 % Total revenue increased $15 million or 3% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 . The revenue increase included a 4% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Recurring revenue grew 11% in the first quarter of 2018 from the prior-year period, which included a 4% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Consistent with the strategy to shift to subscription-based transactions, we experienced a larger percentage of transactions shifting to a subscription-based model in first quarter of 2018 versus the first quarter of 2017. Under subscription models, we recognize revenue over time as opposed to the upfront recognition under the perpetual model. As a result, revenues from perpetual software licenses and hardware declined 23% in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, including a 4% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations, and we expect these perpetual revenues to continue to decline as customers switch to a subscription-based model. Consulting services revenue increased 5% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior-year period. The increase included a 5% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. 21 Table of Contents Included below are financial and performance growth metrics for the first quarter of 2018: Total ARR at the end of the first quarter of 2018 was $1.2 billion, an increase of 11% from the end of the first quarter of 2017. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, recurring revenue and ARR now includes recurring revenue from our managed services business. The prior-period amounts have been updated to reflect the current period presentation. Approximately 62% of our bookings in the first quarter of 2018 were subscription-based. We now expect subscription-based transactions to comprise 50 to 60 percent of our bookings mix for the full year. We continue to expect TCore growth in the high teens in 2018. Gross Profit % of % of In millions 2018 Revenue 2017 Revenue Recurring $ 212 70.2 % $ 206 75.5 % Perpetual software licenses and hardware 21 30.4 % 29 32.2 % Consulting services (10 ) (7.4 )% (10 ) (7.8 )% Total gross profit $ 223 44.1 % $ 225 45.8 % The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of subscription transactions in the quarter as compared to the previous period. The decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenue as some customers continue to purchase their hardware upfront while buying the software on a subscription basis, which is recorded in recurring revenue. Consulting service gross profit as a percentage of revenue improved as compared to the prior year. Consulting margins are seasonally at their lowest point in the first quarter due to the timing of expenses and revenue recognition. Operating Expenses % of % of In millions 2018 Revenue 2017 Revenue Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 152 30.0 % $ 155 31.6 % Research and development expenses 75 14.8 % 70 14.3 % Total operating expenses $ 227 44.9 % $ 225 45.8 % The decrease in Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") expense was due to an inventory charge and other transformation associated costs related to the discontinuation of our prior hardware platforms recorded in 2017. This is partially offset by investments that we are making in 2018 related to our strategic transformation initiatives as well as increased sales and sales support headcount. Research and Development ("R&D") expenses increased primarily due to strategic investments in managed and public cloud as well as the new Teradata Analytics Platform. Other Expense, net In millions 2018 2017 Interest income $ 3 $ 2 Interest expense (5 ) (3 ) Other (2 ) (1 ) Other expense, net $ (4 ) $ (2 ) Other expense in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017 is comprised of interest expense on long-term debt partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest income and expense increased due to increases in interest rates. 22 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on estimated annual income tax rates, adjusted to reflect the effects of any significant infrequent or unusual items which are required to be discretely recognized within the current interim period. The 2018 and 2017 effective tax rate were both impacted by the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, making significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017; the transition of U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") was issued to address the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. In accordance with SAB 118, the Company has made its best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act in its 2017 and first quarter of 2018 income tax provision in accordance with its understanding of the Tax Act and guidance available as of the date of this filing. The provisional amount related to the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings of $1.3 billion was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 and was $145 million of tax expense, which the Company expects to pay over an 8-year period. The Company also recorded a provisional benefit of $19 million, a majority of which related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. No adjustment to the provisional amounts was recorded in the first quarter of 2018, although the Company continues to finalize the provisional amounts. The ultimate impact may differ materially from these provisional amounts due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company has made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Act. As a result of the Tax Act, the Company changed its indefinite reversal assertion related to its undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and no longer considers a majority of its foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. The effective tax rates in the periods presented are largely based upon the forecasted pre-tax earnings mix between the U.S. and other foreign taxing jurisdictions where the Company conducts its business under its current structure. The Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate for 2018 to be approximately 20%, which takes into consideration, among other things, the forecasted earnings mix by jurisdiction for 2018 and the estimated discrete items to be recognized in 2018. The forecasted tax rate is based on the overseas profits being taxed at an overall effective tax rate of approximately 19%, as compared to the federal statutory tax rate of 21% in the U.S. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 Effective tax rate 12.5 % % For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , and March 31, 2017 , no material discrete tax items were recorded. Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment Teradata is managing its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with the manner by which management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under GAAP in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the three months ended March 31 : 23 Table of Contents % of % of In millions 2018 Revenue 2017 Revenue Segment revenue Americas $ 264 52.2 % $ 267 54.4 % International 242 47.8 % 224 45.6 % Total segment revenue $ 506 100 % $ 491 100 % Segment gross profit Americas $ 147 55.7 % $ 151 56.6 % International 98 40.5 % 100 44.6 % Total segment gross profit $ 245 48.4 % $ 251 51.1 % Americas: Revenue decreased 1% in the first quarter of 2018 from the first quarter of 2017 . As discussed previously, the revenue decline was driven by a higher mix of subscription-based transactions in first quarter of 2018 versus first quarter of 2017. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to a higher mix of hardware revenue. International: Revenue increased by 8% in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the first quarter of 2017 . The increase was driven by a 9% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to a higher mix of consulting revenue. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $ 64 million in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the Companys ongoing transition to subscription-based purchasing options, which result in the Company collecting less cash in the current period as customers pay over time, the higher expense run rate from prior-year strategic transformation investments, and the timing of cash collections. Teradatas management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow, which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software, as one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures, for among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: Three Months Ended March 31, In millions 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 184 $ 248 Less: Expenditures for property and equipment (26 ) (16 ) Additions to capitalized software (2 ) (2 ) Free cash flow $ 156 $ 230 Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. There were no other investing activities in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017. 24 Table of Contents Teradatas financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily consisted of cash outflows for share repurchases and payments on the revolving credit facility and long-term debt. The prior period did not include payments on credit facility borrowings. At March 31, 2018 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facility. The Company purchased approximately 2.1 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $37.09 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 , of which $16 million was cash settled after March 31, 2018, and 1.4 million shares at an average price per share of $31.21 in the three months ended March 31, 2017 under the two share repurchase programs that were authorized by our Board of Directors. The first program (the dilution offset program), allows the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of March 31, 2018 , under the Companys second share repurchase program (the general share repurchase program), the Company had $446 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. Our share repurchase activity depends on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for capital investments, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax, were $10 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited). Our total in cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries was $796 million as of March 31, 2018 and $1,044 million as of December 31, 2017 . The remaining balance held in the U.S. was $143 million as of March 31, 2018 and $45 million as of December 31, 2017 . Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act, the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest its earnings outside of the U.S. As a result of the Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the U.S. and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company repatriated $300 million of its offshore cash and utilized $240 million to pay down the credit facility and $60 million for share repurchases that occurred during the quarter. The Company plans to repatriate an additional $500 million of its offshore cash by the end of 2018, and intends to use repatriated funds to repurchase shares and retain the remainder for general corporate purposes. Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. has moved to a territorial system of international taxation, and as such will not subject future foreign earnings to U.S. taxation upon repatriation in future years. Management believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. The Companys ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in the Companys 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2017 Annual Report), and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. Long-term Debt. Teradata's term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which commenced on March 31, 2016 , with all remaining principal due in March 2020 . The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of March 31, 2018 , the term loan principal outstanding was $525 million and carried an interest rate of 3.688% . Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $700 thousand are being amortized over the five-year term of the loan. Teradata's Credit Facility has a borrowing capacity of $400 million . The Credit Facility ends on March 25, 2020 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. The interest rate charged on borrowings pursuant to the Credit Facility can vary depending on the interest rate option the Company chooses to utilize and the Companys leverage ratio at the time of the borrowing. The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains certain representations and 25 Table of Contents warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of March 31, 2018 , the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available. Unamortized deferred costs on the original credit facility and new lender fees of approximately $700 thousand are being amortized over the five-year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2018. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. There has been no significant change in our contractual and other commercial commitments as described in the 2017 Annual Report. Our guarantees and product warranties are discussed in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the 2017 Annual Report. Teradatas senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures and determined that there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for new accounting pronouncements.