Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Factors that May Affect Future Results below, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Certain forward-looking statements are indicated by italics. ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following managements discussion and analysis focuses on those factors that had a material effect on the Companys financial results of operations during the first quarter of 2011 and for the same period of 2010. It should be read in connection with the Companys condensed unaudited financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that May Affect Future Results The Companys expectation that its effective tax rate will return to 35% to 36% of pretax income for the remainder of 2011 compared to the tax benefit recorded in the first three months of 2011 The effective tax rate for the final nine months of 2011 may be affected by changes in federal and state tax law, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position or the Companys operating activities and/or management decisions could increase or decrease its effective tax rate. The Companys belief that the quality of its trade receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections This belief may be impacted by domestic economic conditions, by economic, political, regulatory or social conditions in foreign markets, or by the failure of the Company to properly implement or maintain internal controls. The Companys expectation that it will obtain a new line of credit similar to its current line of credit when the current line of credit expires on October 30, 2011 This expectation may be impacted by factors such as changes in credit markets, the interest rate environment, general economic conditions, the Companys financial results and condition, and the Companys anticipated need for capital to fund business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys current financial resources, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations and capital expenditures. The belief that the Companys low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in product demand would impair the Companys ability to fund operations Changes in anticipated operating results, credit availability, equity market conditions or the Companys debt levels may further enhance or inhibit the Companys ability to maintain or raise appropriate levels of cash. The Companys expectations as to the level and use of planned capital expenditures and that capital expenditures will be funded with cash on hand and cash generated from operating activities This expectation may be affected by changes in the Companys anticipated capital expenditure requirements resulting from unforeseen required maintenance, repairs, or capital asset additions. The funding of planned or unforeseen expenditures may also be affected by changes in anticipated operating results resulting from decreased sales, lack of acceptance of new products or increased operating expenses or by other unexpected events affecting the Companys financial position. The Companys belief that its vulnerability to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant This belief may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in foreign markets, changes in regulatory and competitive conditions, a change in 11 Table of Contents the amount or geographic focus of the Companys international sales, or changes in purchase or sales terms. The Companys expectation that research and development spending will grow and return to historic levels These plans and expectations may be impacted by the Companys ability to identify, hire and retain qualified personnel, unexpected changes to resource requirements for other areas of the Companys business and the overall performance of the Company. The Companys beliefs as to the future performance of its new technologies or particular segments Actual performance may be impacted by general market conditions or conditions in particular industries in which the Companys products are used (including the aerospace and automotive industries), changes to the competitive landscape in the industries in which the Company competes (including pricing pressures from existing or future competitors), lack of acceptance of new products or technologies or increases to raw materials costs used to produce the Companys products. The Companys efforts to grow its international business These efforts may be impacted by economic, political and social conditions in current and anticipated foreign markets, regulatory conditions in such markets, unanticipated changes in expenses or sales, changes in competitive conditions or other barriers to entry or expansion. The Companys belief as to future activities that may be undertaken to expand the Companys business Actual activities undertaken may be impacted by general market conditions, competitive conditions in the industries in which the Company sells products, unanticipated changes in the Companys financial position, lack of acceptance of new products or the inability to identify attractive acquisition targets or other business opportunities. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Therefore, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The accounting estimates, which IKONICS believes are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating its reported financial results, include the following: Trade Receivables. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by review of the current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While such credit losses have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, the Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same collection history that has occurred in the past. The general payment terms are net 30-45 days for domestic customers and net 30-90 days for foreign customers. A small percentage of the trade receivables balance is denominated in a foreign currency with no concentration in any given country. At the end of each reporting period, the Company analyzes the receivable balance for customers paying in a foreign currency. These balances are adjusted to each quarter or year spot rate in accordance with guidance related to foreign currency matters. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. The Company monitors its inventory for obsolescence and records reductions in cost when required. Income Taxes. At March 31, 2011, the Company had net current deferred tax assets of $157,000 and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $171,000. The deferred tax assets and liabilities result primarily from temporary differences in property and equipment, accrued expenses, and inventory reserves. In connection with the recording of a $919,000 impairment charge in 2009 related to an investment in a non-marketable equity security, the 12 Table of Contents Company has recorded a deferred tax asset and corresponding full valuation allowance in the amount of $323,000 as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 as it is more likely that this asset will not be realized. The deferred tax asset related to the capital loss can be carried back three years and carried forward five years and must be offset by a capital gain. The Company has determined that is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized and that an additional valuation allowance for such assets is not currently required. The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions under the provision of FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. At March 31, 2011 the Company had no reserves for uncertain tax positions. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue on sales of products when title passes which can occur at the time of shipment or when the goods arrive at the customer location depending on the agreement with the customer. The Company sells its products to both distributors and end-users. Sales to distributors and end-users are recorded based upon the criteria governed by the sales, delivery, and payment terms stated on the invoices from the Company to the purchaser. In addition to transfer of title / risk of loss, all revenue is recorded in accordance with the criteria outlined within the provisions regarding revenue recognition including: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement (principally in the form of customer sales orders and the Companys sales invoices) (b) delivery and performance (evidenced by proof of delivery, e.g. the shipment of film and substrates with bill of lading used for proof of delivery for FOB shipping point terms, and the carrier booking confirmation report used for FOB destination terms). Once the finished product is shipped and physically delivered under the terms of the invoice and sales order, the Company has no additional performance or service obligations to complete (c) a fixed and determinable sales price (the Companys pricing is established and is not based on variable terms, as evidenced in either the Companys invoices or the limited number of distribution agreements; the Company rarely grants extended payment terms and has no history of concessions) (d) a reasonable likelihood of payment (the Companys terms are standard, and the Company does not have a substantial history of customer defaults or non-payment) Sales are reported on a net basis by deducting credits, estimated normal returns and discounts. The Companys return policy does not vary by geography. The Company is not under a warranty obligation and the customer has no rotation or price protection rights. Freight billed to customers is included in sales. Shipping costs are included in cost of goods sold. Results of Operations Quarter Ended March 31, 2011 Compared to Quarter Ended March 31, 2010 Net Sales. The Company realized a 0.9% sales decrease during the first quarter of 2011 with sales of $3.7 million for the comparable periods. Lower film sales resulted in Domestic sales being down 11.3% in the first quarter of 2011. First quarter Domestic sales in 2010 benefitted from a large private label sales which did not occur in 2011. Partially offsetting the Domestic sales decrease were sales into the Micromachining and DTX markets which grew from $134,000 in the first quarter of 2010 to $235,000 in the first quarter of 2011. Export sales were 3.4% higher during the first quarter of 2011 due stronger sales in both Asia and Europe partially offset by weaker Latin American sales. IKONICS Imaging sales into the awards and recognition markets were flat for the first quarter of 2011 when compared to the same period last year. Gross Profit . Gross profit was $1.5 million, or 40.2% of sales, in first quarter of 2011 compared to $1.5 million, or 40.3% of sales, for the same period in 2010. The decrease in higher margin Domestic film sales resulted in a decrease in the Domestic gross margin in the first quarter from 46.8% in 2010 to 44.0% in 2011. Raw 13 Table of Contents materials price increases have also unfavorably affected 2011 first quarter margins. Gross margins were favorably impacted by the increase in the higher margin sales related to Micromachining and DTX. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.3 million, or 36.8% of sales, in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $1.2 million, or 32.6% of sales, for the same period in 2010. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects higher personnel and consulting costs related to supporting the Companys Micromachining and DTX initiatives. Part of the higher personnel expenses are related to resources that were previously assigned to research and development, but have been reassigned to focus exclusively on Micromachining and DTX. Research and Development Expenses . Research and development expenses during the first quarter of 2011 were $100,000, or 2.8% of sales, versus $161,000, or 4.4% of sales, for the same period in 2010. The decrease is due to lower staffing levels due to the reassignment of certain personnel to the Companys Micromachining and DTX initiatives. Additionally, legal and patent related expenses were lower in the first quarter of 2011 along with research related production trials. Interest Income. The Company earned $4,600 of interest income in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $3,500 of interest income in the first quarter of 2010. The interest earned in first quarter of 2011 is related to interest received from the Companys short-term investments, which consisted of $2,223,000 of fully insured certificates of deposit with maturities ranging from six to twelve months as of the end of first quarter of 2011. Income Taxes. For the first quarter of 2011, the Company realized an income tax benefit of $9,000 compared to income tax benefit of $22,000 for the same quarter in 2010. During the first quarter of 2011 the Company recorded an out-of-period tax benefit adjustment of $9,000 relating to December 31, 2010 estimate for tax. The Company also recorded a $9,000 tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options. The 2010 first quarter benefits primarily relate to derecognizing a liability for unrecognized tax benefits relating to a tax year where the statute of limitations expired during the first quarter. A $27,000 liability was derecognized in the first quarter of 2010. During the first quarter of 2010, the Company also recorded an out-of-period tax benefit adjustment of $15,000 relating to December 31, 2009 estimates for tax credits as well as the receipt of interest of approximately $13,000 related to Minnesota state income tax returns. The Company expects that for the remainder of 2011, the Company will record the provision for income taxes at an effective tax rate of 35% to 36%, as it recognizes benefits from the domestic manufacturing deduction, research and development credits, and state income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has financed its operations principally with funds generated from operations. These funds have been sufficient to cover the Companys normal operating expenditures, annual capital requirements, and research and development expenditures. Cash and cash equivalents were $752,000 and $1,416,000 at March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company used $500,000 in cash for operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to generating $184,000 of cash from operating activities during the same period in 2010. Cash provided by or used by operating activities is primarily the result of net income adjusted for non-cash depreciation, amortization, and certain changes in working capital components discussed in the following paragraph. During the first three months of 2011, inventories increased by $570,000 due to increased raw materials purchases. The higher raw material purchases were due to the timing of a large restocking orders, an increase in order quantities to take advantage of volume discounts and new raw materials necessary to support the manufacture and sale of the Companys new products. Trade receivables increased by $65,000. The increase in receivables is related to the timing of collections. The Company believes that the quality of its receivables is high and that strong internal controls are in place to maintain proper collections. Deposits, prepaid expenses and other assets increased $68,000, reflecting insurance premiums paid in advance in the first quarter of 2011. Accounts payable increased $81,000 due to of the timing of payments to and purchases from vendors. Accrued expenses decreased $12,000, 14 Table of Contents reflecting the timing of compensation payments. Income taxes payable decreased $15,000 and income taxes receivables increased $5,000 due to the payment of 2010 taxes. During the first quarter of 2011, investing activities used $95,000. The Companys purchases of property and equipment for the quarter were $67,000, mainly for hardware upgrades to the Companys computer network and equipment purchases. Also during the first quarter of 2011, the Company incurred $24,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company invested $813,000 in fully insured certificates of deposits with four certificates of deposit totaling $809,000 maturing during the first three months of 2011. During the first quarter of 2010, investing activities used $73,000. Purchases of property and equipment were $68,000, mainly for two vehicles and equipment purchases. The Company received $8,000 from vehicle sales. Also during the first quarter of 2010, the Company incurred $10,000 in patent application costs that the Company records as an asset and amortizes upon successful completion of the application process. The Company invested $203,000 in fully insured certificates of deposits with one $200,000 certificate of deposit maturing during the first three months of 2010. During the first three months of 2011 the Company received $56,000 from financing activities as the Company received $56,000 from the issuance of 8,000 shares of common stock from the exercise of stock options. A bank line of credit exists providing for borrowings of up to $1,250,000. The line of credit term runs from October 31, 2010 to October 30, 2011. The Company expects to obtain a similar line of credit when the current line of credit expires. The line of credit is collateralized by trade receivables and inventories and bears interest at 2.5 percentage points over the 30-day LIBOR rate. The Company did not utilize this line of credit during the first three months of 2011 or 2010 and there were no borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2011 and 2010. There are no financial covenants related to the line of credit. The Company believes that current financial resources, its line of credit, cash generated from operations and the Companys capacity for debt and/or equity financing will be sufficient to fund current and anticipated business operations. The Company also believes that its low debt levels and available line of credit make it unlikely that a decrease in demand for the Companys products would impair the Companys ability to fund operations. Capital Expenditures Through the first three months of 2011, the Company had $67,000 in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures during the first three months were mainly for network upgrades and equipment. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2011 of approximately $600,000. Plans for capital expenditures include two mandatory elevator and manufacturing equipment upgrades, development equipment to modernize the capabilities and processes of IKONICS laboratory, research and development to improve measurement and quality control processes and a vehicle. These commitments are expected to be funded with cash generated from operating activities. International Activity The Company markets its products to numerous countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other parts of the world. Foreign sales were approximately 33% of total sales during the first three months of 2011 compared to 31% of sales in the first quarter of 2010. Higher sales volumes in Europe and Asia positively impacted 2011 first quarter sales volumes. Fluctuations of certain foreign currencies have not significantly impacted the Companys operations because the Companys foreign sales are not concentrated in any one region of the world. The Company believes its vulnerability to uncertainties due to foreign currency fluctuations and general economic conditions in foreign countries is not significant. The Companys foreign transactions are primarily negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, while a portion is transacted in Euros. IKONICS has not implemented an economic hedging strategy to reduce the risk of 15 Table of Contents foreign currency translation exposures, which management does not believe to be significant based on the scope and geographic diversity of the Companys foreign operations as of March 31, 2011. Furthermore, the impact of foreign exchange on the Companys balance sheet and operating results was not material in either 2011 or 2010. Future Outlook IKONICS has spent on average over 4% of its sales dollars for the past few years in research and development; in 2011 this dropped to 3%. The 2011 first quarter reduction is due to the Company moving to commercialize its new technologies (Micro Machining and Industrial Inkjet Solutions). Two chemists who were intimately involved in the development of these technologies have been made their Product Managers. This reassignment puts the Companys technical people, with their broad product knowledge, directly in contact with industrial customers, who demand technical sales and support. As new research projects are identified, the Company anticipates that its Research and Development staff will grow to meet these needs and spending will return to historic levels. The new technologies of Micro Machining and Industrial Inkjet (DTX) are both growing rapidly. For the first quarter of 2011 their combined sales were 74% percent above the first quarter of 2010, and the Company anticipates further strong growth. Micro Machinings aviation sound deadening technology has shown growth with several new customers interested in adopting the Companys technology, and the Company believes there are new opportunities for the machining of composite materials for the aerospace industry. The Companys machining of electronic wafers is also showing growth and increased profitability. The Company believes Micro Machining offers a unique value proposition, which the industry is just beginning to recognize. DTX is a proprietary system for putting textures into steel molds for the plastic injection mold making; the primary end customer is automotive. The Company sells inkjet fluid and custom made substrates for use by printers supplied by the Company and its strategic partners, Colour Scanner Technology GMBH and the Trans Tech division of Illinois Tool Works Inc. IKONICS was awarded a European patent on its DTX technology in 2010 and has a patent pending in North America and Japan. The first DTX printer was sold in 2010 to a domestic customer, and it is generating consumable sales. Several potential customers, world-wide, have evidenced interest in this technology, and the Company anticipates sales once its strategic partners have printers available. The Companys strategic partners have been reluctant to manufacture these specialized printers until market demand became evident; the Company believes it is now evident and printers are in production. In 2010 the Company developed and applied for a patent on its I-HE photo resist film for the etching of electronic wafers and developed I-XE low silicone photo resist film for the aerospace industry. Both films have been well received and have begun to generate profitable sales which the Company believes will continue in 2011. Domestically, the Company has combined its Chromaline Screen Print Product and its Ikonics Imaging units under one leadership. These have been profitable mature markets and require aggressive strategies to grow market share. Although there will be challenges, the Company believes these businesses will continue to grow and prosper. In addition to its traditional emphasis on domestic markets, the Company will continue efforts to grow its business internationally by attempting to develop new markets and expanding market share where it has already established a presence. We believe that the Companys traditional businesses will show steady growth worldwide and that its new businesses will display accelerated growth. Other future activities undertaken to expand the Companys business may include acquisitions, building improvements, equipment additions, new product development and marketing opportunities. 16 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Company does not expect that the adoption of any recent accounting pronouncements will have a material impact on its financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements.