ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. These discussions contain forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, expectations regarding demand and acceptance for our technologies, growth opportunities and trends in the market in which we operate, prospects plans and objectives of management and the statements made below under the heading Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks. The words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, will, would and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview and Quarter Highlights We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network, and market and sell our vehicles directly to consumers via the phone and internet, in-person at our corporate events and through our network of Tesla stores. We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2003, opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, and introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. In July 2009, we introduced a new Roadster model, the Tesla Roadster 2, and its higher performance option package Roadster Sport, as well as launched the Tesla Roadster in Europe. In July 2010, we introduced the Roadster 2.5, with new styling and an upgraded interior. We are designing our second vehicle, the Model S sedan, for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and plan to manufacture the Model S in higher volumes than our current volumes for the Tesla Roadster. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we recognized total revenues of $57.7 million, an increase of 85% over total revenues of $31.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Automotive sales revenue of $43.2 million increased 85% from the three months ended September 30, 2010, driven by strong customer demand for the Tesla Roadster globally and significantly higher powertrain component sales. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we continued our efforts in expanding our company-owned retail network with the opening of a new store in Eindhoven. We plan to open several more stores by year end in the United States utilizing the new store concept embodied by our Santana Row and Park Meadows Tesla stores. We believe this new store concept provides a unique retail experience designed to engage and inform potential customers about electric vehicles in general, learn about Teslas innovations and configure their cars through hands-on interactive screens. Some of these new stores will replace existing stores which we plan to continue using as service locations. As a result of our continued activities to support the sales of the Tesla Roadster, the opening and operation of new stores, higher store-related and marketing activities, as well as the growth of the business, we incurred higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $27.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011 when compared to expenses of $20.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. 20 Table of Contents Development services revenue increased to $14.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $7.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2010, due primarily to our development activities for the Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) RAV4 EV program. We completed planned milestones and deliveries of samples to Toyota during the quarter, and we currently expect to complete our remaining development services milestones and sample deliveries by early 2012. The Model S program remains on track for planned first customer deliveries no later than July 2012. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we continued to make progress on the build of the beta phase of our Model S prototypes. Detailed testing of systems integration, performance and safety, all of which are ongoing, has allowed us to further refine the overall design of the Model S and its constituent parts as well as the production and assembly processes to manufacture the vehicle. In October 2011, we finalized a long term supply contract with Panasonic Corporation for cells to be used in our products, which gives us increased visibility into our variable costs. Research and development expenses included expenses related to Model S beta prototype build, development of the Tesla Factory, significant engineering, design and testing work being undertaken at several of our suppliers to support Model S readiness, design and engineering activities related to Model X prototyping, and other research and development activities. Research and development expenses were $54.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, compared to $26.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. We anticipate that the level of research and development spending will increase slightly from the current level for the remainder of 2011 as we continue with the engineering and testing of Model S, prepare the Tesla Factory for production of the Model S next year, and accelerate the advanced engineering work on Model X. In addition to Model S engineering, we also experienced significant activity at the Tesla Factory, where we intend to produce our Model S and future vehicles, including our Model X crossover. Significant construction continues to take place and detailed manufacturing readiness plans are being executed. Most of our Model S vehicle manufacturing equipment has been installed at the Tesla Factory, especially in the stamping, plastics, paint, body and final assembly shops. As a result of investments being made in the Tesla Factory and related supplier tooling for the Model S, capital expenditures increased to $68.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, compared to $66.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010 which was comprised primarily of payments we had made towards the purchase of the Tesla Factory from New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI). We will continue to seek opportunities to limit our capital expenditures and anticipate our aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 to be in the range of $220 million and $245 million, primarily focused on vehicle development and manufacturing activities for Model S and Model X. Our Model S, Model X and powertrain development activities, as well as our capital investments in manufacturing infrastructure, continued to be supported by draw-downs under our Department of Energy Loan Facility (DOE Loan Facility) and other sources of cash including cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services and sales of powertrain components, cash received from refundable reservation payments for our Model S and cash received from our public offerings and private placements. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we received $90.8 million in draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility bringing our total long-term debt under the facility to $225.0 million. As we continue to progress on our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to continue making draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. 21 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2011, we had $573.7 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $213.3 million which includes investments in money market funds, short-term marketable securities of $65.1 million, cash of $55.3 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and $240.0 million available under the DOE Loan Facility. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Our principal focus continues to be on the disciplined development of the Model S so that we can achieve our plan of first customer deliveries no later than July 2012. We are also focused on the continued sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components, development services activities with our strategic partners, advanced engineering work on the planned Model X and pursuing new electric powertrain opportunities with automobile manufacturers. In June 2011, we entered into an amendment to our supply agreement with Lotus Cars Limited (Lotus) to increase our purchase from 2,400 Tesla Roadster vehicles or gliders to 2,500 vehicles or gliders. Through September 30, 2011, we have delivered over 2,000 vehicles to customers. We currently intend to manufacture at Lotus our current generation Tesla Roadster through January 2012. We plan to sell the last of the North American Roadsters by early next year and continue selling in Europe and Asia until inventory is fully depleted in 2012. Powertrain component sales in 2011 have increased when compared with 2010. While we anticipate entering into a new development services program with Daimler AG (Daimler), all our powertrain component sales under current agreements with Daimler will be completed by the end of 2011. We expect to resume sales of powertrain components in 2012 with the start of production of the Toyota RAV4 EV program. In July 2011, we entered into a supply and services agreement with Toyota for the production of a validated electric powertrain system, including a battery, charging system, inverter, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into the Toyota RAV4 EV. Additionally, we will provide Toyota with certain services related to the supply of these components. Pursuant to the agreement, Toyota will pay us approximately $100 million from 2012 through 2014 based on our delivery of these components for the RAV4 EV. We plan to begin shipping RAV4 EV production powertrain systems to Toyota consistent with Toyotas announced plan to produce the RAV4 EV for sale in 2012. As we have a limited number of the Tesla Roadsters left for sale and as we expect powertrain component sales to decline until the start of production for the Toyota RAV4 EV program, we anticipate our automotive sales will decline, potentially significantly, just prior to the planned launch of our Model S. The launch of our Model S could be delayed for a number of reasons and any such delays may be significant and would extend the period in which we would generate limited revenues from sales of our electric vehicles. Remaining development services revenue for 2011 will be derived primarily from our electric powertrain development activities with Toyota under the Toyota RAV4 EV program. We expect that the Toyota RAV4 EV development program, and the associated development services revenue, will be completed by early 2012. We recently received a letter of intent from Daimler for a full powertrain program for a vehicle in the Mercedes line and anticipate negotiating a development services agreement with Daimler to implement such a program in the upcoming months. Due to timing differences that may arise between the recognition of future milestone revenue and the underlying costs of development services, the gross margin from our development services activities may vary from period to period. 22 Table of Contents The build of the Model S beta prototypes in the Tesla Factory is continuing to progress and we are working closely with suppliers to design, develop and test components that will meet our anticipated production design specifications and schedule. Ensuring that our design, engineering, operations and manufacturing engineering teams, and our suppliers, execute on all significant activities will be critical to a timely launch of first customer deliveries of our Model S no later than July 2012. Our continuing negotiations with suppliers, and our manufacturing capabilities will influence our ability to achieve the cost per unit that we are currently projecting. Our plan to begin first deliveries of the Model S no later than July 2012 is also dependent upon the timely availability of funds from the DOE Loan Facility, upon our finalizing the related design, engineering, component procurement, testing, build out and manufacturing plans in a timely manner and upon our ability to execute these plans within the current timeline. Earlier in 2011, we publicly announced the Tesla Model X as the first vehicle derivative we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. We are designing the Model X as a crossover vehicle. We currently plan to hold a limited showing of the prototype of the Model X crossover by the end of 2011 and to reveal it publicly early in 2012 followed by the anticipated commercial introduction of this vehicle in the fourth quarter of 2013. Our operating expenses in 2011 have been significant as we continue to execute on the Model S program and systematically and strategically expand our sales and service infrastructure globally to support the launch of the Model S. As we continue to make significant investments in research and development and our infrastructure to launch the Model S as well as incur costs for the development of the Model X, we expect to continue generating a net loss until we reach volume sales of the Model S. As pre-production development and prototyping costs cannot be capitalized, we expect our operating expenses to continue increasing due to our ongoing activities to prepare the Tesla Factory for production, refine the Model S and continue the advanced engineering work on Model X. Once we start recognizing revenue from the sales of Model S, our Model S production costs, including direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead and amortized tooling, and logistics, will begin to be reflected in cost of automotive sales. Capital spending for the Model S program is anticipated to be at its highest level over the next few quarters, as we make final payments for much of the tooling and manufacturing equipment required for production. We anticipate that most of the capital expenditures on the Model S will be funded by the DOE Loan Facility. We will continue to seek opportunities to limit our capital expenditures and anticipate our aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 to be in the range of $220 million and $245 million, primarily focused on vehicle development and manufacturing activities for Model S and Model X. We have also elected to invest incrementally in new technologies and additional plant automation to efficiently produce vehicles at high quality and at an affordable cost. Depreciation of our capital expenditures related to the Fremont facility will begin with the start of Model S production. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors for a further discussion of risks associated with our business, including additional risks related to the Model S and Model X. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. 23 Table of Contents For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1, Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference. For revenue arrangements that were entered into or materially modified after January 1, 2011, implementation of new revenue accounting guidance had no material impact on our reported revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to revenue that would have been reported if the related arrangements were subject to the accounting requirements in effect in the prior year. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we purchased marketable securities including commercial paper and corporate debt of $65.1 million. All marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss which is included in stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale marketable securities are recorded in other income (expense), net. The cost of available-for-sale marketable securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Interest, dividends, amortization and accretion of purchase premiums and discounts on our marketable securities are included in other income (expense), net. Available-for-sale marketable securities with maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase and remaining maturities of one year or less are classified as short-term marketable securities. Where temporary declines in fair value exist, we have the ability and the intent to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. We regularly review all of our marketable securities for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. The review includes but is not limited to (i) the consideration of the cause of the impairment, (ii) the creditworthiness of the security issuers, (iii) the length of time a security is in an unrealized loss position, and (iv) our ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 2011 2010 Revenues Automotive sales $ 43,235 $ 23,350 $ 115,891 $ 67,906 Development services 14,431 7,891 48,976 12,552 Total revenues 57,666 31,241 164,867 80,458 Cost of revenues Automotive sales 32,752 19,457 90,241 56,581 Development services 7,690 2,488 20,866 4,467 Total cost of revenues 40,442 21,945 111,107 61,048 Gross profit 17,224 9,296 53,760 19,410 Operating expenses Research and development 54,083 26,698 147,776 55,379 Selling, general and administrative 27,618 20,432 76,545 59,224 Total operating expenses 81,701 47,130 224,321 114,603 Loss from operations (64,477 ) (37,834 ) (170,561 ) (95,193 ) Interest income 80 100 166 195 Interest expense (298 ) (992 ) Other income (expense), net (594 ) 3,180 (2,150 ) (6,770 ) Loss before income taxes (64,991 ) (34,852 ) (172,545 ) (102,760 ) Provision for income taxes 87 83 377 210 Net loss $ (65,078 ) $ (34,935 ) $ (172,921 ) $ (102,970 ) Revenues Automotive Sales Automotive sales, which include vehicle, options and related sales, and powertrain component and related sales, consisted of the following for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 2011 2010 Vehicle, options and related sales $ 28,403 $ 18,221 $ 76,443 $ 55,452 Powertrain component and related sales 14,832 5,129 39,448 12,454 Total automotive sales $ 43,235 $ 23,350 $ 115,891 $ 67,906 Automotive sales during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 were $43.2 million and $115.9 million, respectively, an increase from $23.4 million and $67.9 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. Vehicle, options and related sales represent sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle credits. Powertrain component and related sales represent the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components, such as battery packs and battery chargers, to other manufacturers. Vehicle, options and related sales during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 were $28.4 million and $76.4 million, respectively, an increase from $18.2 million and $55.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in vehicle, options and related sales was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of Tesla Roadsters that we sold, particularly in North America and Asia, coupled with slightly higher average selling prices. Under our supply agreement with Lotus, we will build 2,500 Roadster gliders, the last of which we should receive early next year. We plan to sell the last of the North American Roadsters by early next year and continue selling in Europe and Asia until inventory is fully depleted in 2012. Powertrain component and related sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 were $14.8 million and $39.4 million, respectively, an increase from $5.1 million and $12.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in powertrain component and related sales was primarily due to significant shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler. We began delivering battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo EV program during the first quarter of 2010, and for the Daimler A-Class EV program late in the fourth quarter of 2010. Production for both the Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs is expected to continue through the end of 2011. 25 Table of Contents Development Services Development services represent arrangements where we develop electric vehicle powertrain components for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs and chargers to meet customers specifications. Development services revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $14.4 million and $49.0 million, respectively, an increase from $7.9 million and $12.6 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. In July 2010, we entered into an agreement with Toyota to initiate development of an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4 EV. Under this Phase 0 development agreement, prototypes would be made by us by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. Through June 30, 2011, we had delivered all remaining prototype vehicles under the Phase 0 agreement and as such, we did not recognize further development services revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2011. In October 2010, we also entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we completed two milestones and delivered several samples under the Phase 1 agreement. Development services revenue under this arrangement with Toyota for the three months ended September 30, 2011 was $14.4 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, we completed various milestones and delivered several samples under the Phase 1 agreement and delivered all remaining prototype vehicles under the Phase 0 agreement. Development services revenue under these arrangements with Toyota for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $49.0 million. We expect that the Phase 1 agreement, and the associated development services revenues, will be completed by early 2012. We intend to grow our development services revenue over time by establishing additional commercial arrangements with other automobile manufacturers and by looking for new development opportunities with existing strategic partners. Additionally, we expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of our delivery of milestones and samples, as well as the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues includes cost of automotive sales and costs related to our development services. Cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $40.4 million and $111.1 million, respectively, an increase from $21.9 million and $61.0 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in cost of automotive sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was driven primarily by an increase in the number of vehicles that we sold and the increased shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler. We began delivering battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo EV program during the first quarter of 2010 and for the Daimler A-Class EV program late in the fourth quarter of 2010. Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. The increase in cost of development services was driven primarily by our activities for the Toyota RAV4 EV program which began in the second half of 2010. 26 Table of Contents Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $17.2 million and $53.8 million, respectively, an increase from $9.3 million and $19.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2011, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2010, was driven primarily by higher sales of the Tesla Roadster coupled with higher average selling prices, as well as gross profit from our development services activities. The increase for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2010, was driven primarily by the gross profit contributed by our development services activities which we expanded in the latter half of 2010 with the Toyota RAV4 EV program, as well as a significant increase in Tesla Roadster sales coupled with slightly higher average selling prices and ongoing cost improvement programs on the Roadster. We expect our development services gross profit and gross margin may fluctuate in future periods as the timing of revenue recognition may not coincide with the period in which the corresponding cost of revenues is recognized. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2011 were $54.1 million, an increase from $26.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The $27.4 million increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2011 consisted primarily of a $10.0 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha and beta builds as well as powertrain development activities, an $8.7 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount, a $4.3 million increase in costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities incurred by our suppliers, a $2.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants, and a $2.1 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business. Research and development expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 were $147.8 million, an increase from $55.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The $92.4 million increase in research and development expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 consisted primarily of a $30.6 million increase in costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities incurred by our suppliers, a $29.5 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha and beta builds as well as powertrain development activities, a $23.4 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount, a $7.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally a higher common stock valuation applied to new grants, and a $5.9 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business. 27 Table of Contents We have significantly increased our research and development efforts for the Model S in recent quarters, which has resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will rise moderately from our current level in the fourth quarter of 2011 as we incur additional costs to further develop the Model S, to develop the Model X and to operate our Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California prior to the start of Model S production. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2011 were $27.6 million, an increase from $20.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The $7.2 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2011 consisted primarily of a $3.0 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $1.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants, a $1.3 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, a $0.7 million increase in professional and outside services costs, and a $0.4 million increase in costs principally related to our planned Tesla store and gallery openings. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 were $76.5 million, an increase from $59.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The $17.3 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 consisted primarily of a $9.4 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $4.2 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, a $2.1 million increase in professional and outside services costs, a $1.3 million increase in costs principally related to the operation of new Tesla stores openings and a $0.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in future periods as we continue to grow and expand our operations, and increase our sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence and prepare for the planned Model S launch scheduled for no later than July 2012. We also expect an increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of our planned increase in the number of Tesla stores. We plan to open additional stores during 2011, mostly in the United States, and some of these stores will replace existing stores, which we may continue to use as service locations. Interest Expense Our interest expense is primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility which we began accessing in 2010. Although interest expense will increase as we continue to draw down on the DOE Loan Facility to fund our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to capitalize this interest to construction in progress until the start of Model S production. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, we capitalized $1.1 million and $2.8 million, respectively, of interest expense to construction in progress. 28 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our warrant liabilities and gains and losses on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Income or charges resulting from the change in the fair value of our stock warrant liability, excluding the DOE warrant liability, was eliminated after July 2, 2010, as these warrants were net exercised at the completion of our IPO. The DOE convertible preferred stock warrant became a common stock warrant on July 2, 2010 and is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other income (expense), net, until its expiration or vesting. Other expense, net, during the three months ended September 30, 2011 was $0.6 million, an increase in expense compared to other income, net of $3.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2010. Other expense, net, during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $2.2 million, a decrease in expense compared to other expense, net, of $6.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in expense for the three months ended September 30, 2011 was primarily due to a more significant fair value change in our warrant liabilities during the three months ended September 30, 2010 resulting from a lower stock price. The decrease in expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was primarily due to the elimination of warrant liabilities, excluding the DOE warrant liability, upon the completion of our IPO in July 2010. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively, compared to $0.1 million and $0.2 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, respectively. The increase for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was due primarily to the increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception and through the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, we had accumulated net losses of $587.9 million and have used approximately $418 million of cash in operations. As of September 30, 2011, we had approximately $574 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $213.3 million which included investments in money market funds, our short-term marketable securities in the amount of $65.1 million, cash of $55.3 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and approximately $240.0 million available under the DOE Loan Facility, which is primarily intended to cover spending related to the development of the Model S and our powertrain activities. Other sources of cash also include cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services, sales of powertrain components and refundable reservation payments for our Model S. 29 Table of Contents We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility, together with our anticipated cash from operating activities will be sufficient to develop the Model S and Model X based on our current plans. This capital will fund our ongoing operations, continue research and development projects, establish sales and service centers, improve infrastructure such as expanded battery assembly facilities, and to make the investments in tooling and manufacturing capital required to introduce the Model S and to continue development of the Model X. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles, investments in new technologies, increased in-sourcing of manufacturing capabilities, investments to expand our powertrain activities or further expand our sales and service network, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We may also choose to opportunistically raise additional funds if market conditions are favorable. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. DOE Loan Facility On January 20, 2010, we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB), and the Department of Energy (DOE), pursuant to the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Incentive Program (the DOE Loan Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, the FFB has made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $465.0 million, which will be available to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the powertrain engineering and the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components and the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan (the Model S Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, we are responsible for the remaining 20% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the projects as well as any cost overruns for each project. Loans may be requested under the facilities until January 22, 2013, and we have committed to complete the projects being financed prior to such date. All outstanding amounts under the Loan Facility will be due and payable in September 2019 and September 2022. The following table summarizes our DOE Loan Facility draw-down activities (in thousands): Loan Facility Available for Future Draw-downs Interest rates Beginning Balance, January, 2010 $ 465,048 Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2010 (29,920 ) 2.9% - 3.4% Draw-downs received during the three months ended June 30, 2010 (15,499 ) 2.5% - 3.4% Draw-downs received during the three months ended September 30, 2010 (11,138 ) 1.7% - 2.6% Draw-downs received during the three months ended December 31, 2010 (15,271 ) 1.7% - 2.8% Remaining Balance, December 31, 2010 393,220 Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2011 (30,656 ) 2.1% - 3.0% Draw-downs received during the three months ended June 30, 2011 (31,693 ) 1.8% - 2.7% Draw-downs received during the three months ended September 30, 2011 (90,822 ) 1.0% - 1.4% Remaining Balance, September 30, 2011 $ 240,049 The DOE Loan Facility contains customary operational and financial covenants with which we must comply, and impose restrictions on, among other things, additional indebtedness, liens, various fundamental changes to our business (including mergers and acquisitions), payments, expenditures, investments, transactions with affiliates, and other aspects regarding the management of our finances. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. All obligations under the DOE Loan Facility are secured by substantially all of our property. 30 Table of Contents In addition to our obligation to fund a portion of the project costs as described above, we agreed to, and upon completion of our IPO, set aside $100.0 million to fund a separate dedicated account under our DOE Loan Facility. Depending on the timing and magnitude of our draw-downs and the funding requirements of the dedicated account, the balance of the dedicated account will fluctuate throughout the period in which we plan to make draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. Upon completion of our final advance under the DOE Loan Facility, the balance in the dedicated account will be fully transferred out of the dedicated account. As of September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $55.3 million and $73.6 million were held in the dedicated account, respectively. As we expect to transfer the current balance out of the dedicated account within one year, we have classified such cash as current restricted cash on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Pursuant to our DOE Loan Facility, we were not required to hold any portion of the net proceeds from our follow-on public offering and the concurrent private placements completed in June 2011 in the dedicated account. Leasing Activities In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. When compared to our sales of vehicles, our leasing activities will spread the cash inflows that we would otherwise receive upon the sale of a vehicle, over the lease term and final disposition of the leased vehicle. As such, our cash and working capital requirements will be directly impacted and if leasing volume increases significantly, the impact may be material. However, after taking into consideration our current and planned sources of operating cash, our ability to monitor and prospectively adjust our leasing activity, as well as our intent to collect nonrefundable deposits for leased vehicles that are manufactured to specification, we do not believe that our planned leasing operations will materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments and obligations as they become due. As we will also be exposed to credit risk related to the timely collection of lease payments from our customers, we intend to utilize our credit approval and ongoing review processes in order to minimize any credit losses that could occur and which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to require deposits from customers electing a lease option for vehicles built to a customers specifications on the same timeframe and under the same circumstances as from customers purchasing our vehicles outright. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, approximately 5% and 7%, respectively, of the vehicles delivered during these periods were under operating leases. As of September 30, 2011, we had deferred revenues of $1.4 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. Through September 30, 2011, our leasing activity has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. Reservations Payments A source of our cash flows from operations has been through our receipt of reservation payments from our customers. Reservation payments consist of reservation payments that allow potential customers to hold a reservation for the future purchase of a Tesla Roadster or Model S. We are not currently accepting reservation payments for our Model X crossover vehicle. For our Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial nonrefundable deposit which varies based on the country of purchase. For the Model S, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. For Tesla Roadsters purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, our reservation policy was to accept reservation payments from all customers who wished to purchase a Tesla Roadster and require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle at the time the customer selected their vehicle specifications. During the second quarter of 2010, we changed our policy to require nonrefundable deposits for Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification at the time a customer enters into a purchase agreement. However, we also occasionally accept reservation payments for the Tesla Roadster if a customer is interested in purchasing a vehicle but not yet prepared to select the vehicle specifications. For customers who have placed a reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. The full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle is required only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. Reservation payments for a vehicle are recorded as a current liability when received. No later than upon the delivery of a vehicle, the reservation payments collected on a customers account are applied against the total purchase price of the vehicle. Reservation payments are expected to fluctuate as the number of reservation holders on the Tesla Roadster reservation list decreases, while the number of reservation holders on the Model S reservation list increases. 31 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (87,276 ) $ (93,533 ) Net cash used in investing activities (191,181 ) (171,747 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 392,227 292,216 Cash Flows used in Operating Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from operations as we expand our business and build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $87.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2011. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $172.9 million, which included non-cash charges of $20.7 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $12.1 million related to depreciation and amortization and $2.1 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liability. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $224.3 million of operating expenses, $111.1 million of cost of revenues and a $10.8 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles, partially offset by a $38.0 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales as well as leasing activities while the net increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business and the timing of vendor payments. Significant operating cash inflows for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $115.9 million, $49.0 million of development services revenue and a $34.5 million net increase in reservation payments, partially offset by an $11.5 million increase in accounts receivable and a $1.6 million increase in deferred revenue. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to receivables from Toyota for the achievement of two milestones in September 2011 under the Toyota RAV4 EV Phase 1 contract services agreement and shipments of batteries and chargers to Daimler under the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs. 32 Table of Contents Net cash used in operating activities was $93.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $103.0 million, which included non-cash charges of $13.3 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $7.7 million related to depreciation and amortization and $5.6 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liabilities. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $114.6 million of operating expenses, $61.0 million of cost of revenues, a $22.8 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles, a $3.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by an $5.9 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Inventory and operating lease vehicles increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales as well as the introduction of our leasing program in 2010 while the net increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business as well as our increased manufacturing activities. Significant operating cash inflows for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $67.9 million, $12.6 million of development services revenue, a $3.4 million increase in deferred revenues, partially offset by a $4.6 million increase in accounts receivable. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011, and in May 2010, we executed a final agreement under which Daimler would make additional payments to us for the successful completion of certain development milestones and the delivery of prototype samples. The increase in deferred revenues was primarily driven by payments that we had received from Daimler in relation to this development arrangement for which revenue recognition has yet to be achieved. Deferred revenues also increased from our vehicle leasing activities as we are recognizing the lease down-payments over the term of the operating leases. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to powertrain component sales and development services during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 in relation to Daimlers Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we received $7.6 million of net reservation payments for the Model S. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. Net cash used in investing activities was $191.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 primarily related to $143.6 million in purchases of capital equipment and $65.0 million in purchases of short-term marketable securities, partially offset by an $18.3 million of net transfers out of our dedicated DOE account in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan. The increase in capital purchases was primarily due to significant development and construction activities at the Tesla Factory as well as purchases of manufacturing equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $171.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 primarily related to capital purchases of $81.8 million and an increase in restricted cash of $90.0 million. The increase in capital purchases was driven primarily by nonrefundable payments of $8.0 million and a further $52.1 million of escrow payments made in relation to our purchase of an existing automobile production facility located in Fremont, California from NUMMI, and certain manufacturing assets located thereon to be used for our planned Model S manufacturing, as well as expenditures related to our transition to and build out of our powertrain manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, California, and purchases of manufacturing equipment. Our purchase transactions with NUMMI were completed in October 2010. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to $100.0 million of net proceeds from our IPO and concurrent private placement that we transferred to a dedicated account as required by our DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $11.9 million that was transferred out of the dedicated account during the three months ended September 30, 2010 in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. To a lesser extent, the increase in restricted cash was also related to certain refundable reservation payments segregated in accordance with state consumer protection regulations in Washington State. 33 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $392.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and was comprised primarily of $231.5 million received from our follow-on public offering and concurrent private placements completed in June 2011, $153.2 million received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility and $7.8 million received from the exercise of common stock options by employees and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Net cash provided by financing activities was $292.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 comprised primarily of $188.8 million in proceeds from our IPO, $50.0 million in proceeds from the Toyota private placement, $56.6 million we received from our loans under the DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $3.7 million of issuance costs we incurred in relation to our DOE Loan Facility and our IPO. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.