ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to accelerate the worlds transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation and other services related to our products. Automotive We strive to produce the worlds highest quality vehicles as quickly and as cost-effectively as possible with a priority on workplace health and safety. Our production vehicle fleet includes our Model S sedan and our Model X SUV, which are our highest-performance premium vehicles, and our Model 3, a lower-priced sedan designed for the mass market. We continue to enhance our vehicle offerings with our Autopilot and FSD features, internet connectivity and free over-the-air software updates to provide additional safety, convenience and performance features. In 2020, we plan to launch our next production vehiclea compact SUV built on the Model 3 platform called Model Yahead of schedule by the summer, as well as commence the production of Tesla Semi with limited volumes. In addition, our future electric vehicle product pipeline includes a pickup truck and a new version of the Tesla Roadster. Energy Generation and Storage We have revamped our solar business through simplicity, standardization and accessibility by streamlining traditionally complex ordering, permitting, installation and back-end service processes, ultimately making our solar products even more compelling to customers. In addition to retrofit solar energy systems, we offer our Solar Roof product that combines solar energy generation with attractive, integrated styling. Our energy storage products consist of Powerwall, mostly for residential applications, and Powerpack and Megapack, for commercial, industrial and utility-scale applications. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks AutomotiveDemand and Sales While the markets for alternative fuel vehicles and self-driving technology are increasingly competitive, their growth also creates opportunities for our expansion. We expect to generate incremental global demand for our vehicles by constantly innovating and making them accessible to larger and previously untapped consumer and commercial markets. An important factor in our success will be our Autopilot and FSD technologies that currently enable the driver-assistance features in our vehicles, and in which we are making significant strides through our proprietary and powerful FSD computer and remotely updateable artificial intelligence software. We have begun to roll out our Smart Summon feature that enables vehicles to be remotely summoned over short distances in parking lots and driveways, and continue to develop for future release as part of our FSD package our vehicles recognition of traffic lights and stop signs. Ultimately, while we are subject to regulatory constraints over which we have no control, our goal is a fully autonomously-driven future that improves safety and provides our customers with convenience and additional income through participation in an autonomous Tesla ride-hailing network. This network, which will also include our own fleet of vehicles, will also allow us to access a new customer base even as modes of transportation evolve. We also believe that we have an advantage over our competitors in areas such as our battery and powertrain technology, including our leading motor efficiency and range; our dedication to safety engineering, as demonstrated by the top safety ratings achieved by each of our production vehicles; and our unique in-car entertainment features for Internet search, music services, passenger karaoke, and parked video streaming and gaming. We also recently introduced on a limited basis our first offering for lower-cost, Tesla-specific vehicle insurance, which we will expand to reduce the total cost of ownership of our vehicles. In the third quarter of 2019, Model 3 continued to be the best-selling premium vehicle in the United States and gain market share in Europe. Vehicles traded in to us by Model 3 customers continue to validate a wider addressable market for this vehicle than existing owners of premium vehicles, even as we also prepare to enter new segments with Model Y and a pickup truck. In particular, local production in the first phase of Gigafactory Shanghai will allow us to offer Model 3 in China at competitive local pricing, which we expect to drive further demand and opportunity in the worlds largest market for mid-sized premium sedans. 38 On the other hand, we may be impacted by trade policies, political uncertainty and economic cycles involving geographic regions where we have significant operations, which are inherently unpredictable. Sales of vehicles in the automotive industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to increased volatility. Specifically, it is uncertain as to how such macroeconomic factors will impact us as a company that has been experiencing growth and increasing market share in an industry that has globally been experiencing a recent decline in sales. In addition, the federal tax credit for the purchase of a qualified electric vehicle in the U.S. was reduced to $1,875 for each Tesla vehicle delivered in the third or fourth quarter of 2019, and will finally be reduced to $0 for each Tesla vehicle delivered thereafter. We believe that this sequential phase-out has likely pulled forward some vehicle demand into the periods preceding each reduction, and we may see similar pull-forwards through the remainder of 2019. In the long run, we do not expect a meaningful impact to our sales in the U.S., as we believe that each of our vehicle models offers a compelling proposition even without incentives. Finally, we make certain adjustments to our product prices from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Such pricing changes may impact our vehicles resale values, and in turn our operating results. For example, if we increase our estimates of the volume of vehicles that may potentially be returned to us under pre-existing resale value guarantees provided to customers and partners for certain financing programs, our gross profits may be reduced, as we saw during the first two quarters of 2019. AutomotiveDeliveries and Customer Infrastructure In the third quarter of 2019, we achieved a new quarterly record for total vehicles delivered. While delivering vehicles at large scale across numerous markets presents logistical challenges, we continue to optimize our manufacturing and delivery patterns. Given our higher volumes and single-factory production at the Tesla Factory until we ramp production at Gigafactory Shanghai, however, we necessarily produce variants (including regional versions) of all of our vehicles in batches in accordance with the demand that we expect for them. If our specific demand expectations for these variants prove inaccurate, we may not be able to timely generate sales matched to the specific vehicles that we produce in the same timeframe, which may negatively impact our deliveries in a particular period. We continue to expand and invest in our servicing and charging locations and capabilities to keep pace with our customer vehicle fleet and ensure a convenient and efficient customer experience. Despite our rapid growth, our service wait times and the financial impact of our service operations are improving. We also continue to deploy our V3 Supercharger technology, which should shorten individual charging sessions and increase customer throughput rates. However, if our customer vehicles, particularly in the rapidly growing Model 3 fleet, experience unexpected reliability issues, it could outpace and overburden our servicing capabilities and parts inventory. AutomotiveProduction The third quarter of 2019 also marked a new quarterly record for total vehicle production. In addition to growing vehicle production at our Tesla Factory, we are ahead of schedule at Gigafactory Shanghai, where we are producing full Model 3 vehicles on a trial basis with body, paint and general assembly lines and are working towards finalizing manufacturing licenses and other regulatory requirements. In addition to featuring a simplified and cost-effective manufacturing process, Gigafactory Shanghai allows us to access the efficiencies of local supply chains and logistics while avoiding certain local tariffs on U.S.-manufactured vehicles. We are transitioning additional manufacturing processes to Gigafactory Shanghai, which will have a capacity of 150,000 Model 3 vehicles per year when the first phase of production is ramped. Likewise, we continue to build production capability for Model Y at the Tesla Factory, and we have drawn on our past Model 3 production experience to make progress ahead of schedule at a projected cost per unit of capacity that is less than that for Model 3 at the Tesla Factory. However, the ramp and further expansion of Gigafactory Shanghai is subject to a number of uncertainties inherent in all new manufacturing operations, including final approvals under and ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements, potential supply chain constraints, and the pace of bringing production equipment and processes online with the capability to manufacture high-quality units at scale. Ultimately, achieving increased total vehicle production cost-effectively across all of our manufacturing operations will require that we timely address any bottlenecks that may arise as we ramp, establish and maintain sustained supplier capacity, and successfully utilize manufacturing processes at the maximum output rates that we have planned for them. Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment We are optimizing ways to reduce customer acquisition costs of our energy generation products by focusing on selling these products directly and efficiently. We have made the online buying experience for our energy products simpler and more accessible by standardizing the offerings for what has traditionally been a cumbersome customized process and offering highly competitive pricing, which should result in cost efficiencies and a larger market. While our retrofit solar system deployments decreased earlier in 2019 as we continue to implement and refine this strategy, deployments increased in the third quarter of 2019 and we expect further growth. In addition, we have launched the third major version of our Solar Roof product, with the first installations planned for the fourth quarter of 2019, and are working to ramp over the remainder of 2019 and into 2020. 39 We remain focused on growth for our energy storage products, and achieved a new quarterly deployment record in the third quarter of 2019. After reestablishing certain production at Gigafactory 1 for our energy storage products in 2019 to reduce backlog and shorten customer wait times, we are now focused on further manufacturing efficiencies and improvements in our installation processes as we ramp. We continue to see global opportunities for commercial and utility-scale projects, including with our introduction of the 3 MWh Tesla Megapack, as well as for residential customers impacted by unreliable access to the energy grid or scheduled blackouts. Automotive Financing Options We offer financing arrangements for our vehicles in certain markets in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offer resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to certain customers who purchase vehicles and who finance their vehicles through one of our specified commercial banking partners. We also offer resale value guarantees in connection with automotive sales to certain leasing partners. Currently, both programs are available only in certain international markets. Resale value guarantees to customers available for exercise within the 12 months following September 30, 2019 totaled $151 million in value. Vehicle deliveries with the resale value guarantee do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. While we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, if a customer exercises the option to return the vehicle to us, we are exposed to liquidity risk that the resale value of vehicles under these programs may be lower than our guarantee, or the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates or we may be unable to resell the used vehicles in a timely manner, all of which could adversely impact our cash flows. To date, we have only had an insignificant percentage of customers who exercised their resale value guarantees and returned their vehicles to us. However, resale prices may inherently fluctuate depending on various factors such as supply and demand of our used vehicles, economic cycles and the pricing of new vehicles, which we adjust from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While we modify our resale value guarantees following such pricing changes if we determine it to be warranted, we cannot do so retrospectively as to outstanding guarantees. Moreover, should market values of our vehicles or customer demand decrease, the accuracy of our estimated rates of return may be impacted materially. We continuously seek to optimize our vehicle financing options. Currently, we offer leasing directly through our local subsidiaries for Model S, Model X and Model 3 in the U.S. and for Model S and Model X in Canada. We also offer leasing through leasing partners in certain jurisdictions. Leasing through our captive financing entities and our leasing partners exposes us to residual value risk. In addition, for leases offered directly from our captive financing entities, we assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expanding our financing offerings, including our lease financing options and the financial sources to support them, and to support the overall financing needs of our customers. To the extent that we are unable to arrange such options for our customers on terms that are attractive, our sales, financial results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Energy Generation and Storage Financing Options We offer our customers the choice to purchase and own solar energy systems, to lease such systems, or to purchase the energy that our solar energy systems produce through various contractual arrangements. These contractual arrangements include long-term leases and PPAs. In either arrangement, we install our solar energy system at our customers premises and charge the customer a monthly payment, which alternatively may be prepaid at the customers option. In the lease arrangement, the monthly payment is fixed. In the PPA arrangement, we charge the customer a rate based on the amount of electricity (measured in kilowatt-hour, or kWh) that the solar energy system actually produces. The leases and PPAs are typically for 20 years with a renewal option, and the specified monthly payments and energy rates may be subject to annual escalations. We also offer in certain regions solar energy systems on a subscription basis, whereby customers may obtain the use of such systems for a fixed monthly payment. For customers who want to purchase and own solar energy systems, we also offer solar loans under which a third-party lender provides financing directly to a qualified customer to enable the customer to purchase and own a solar energy system installed by us (and for which we and the customer have entered into a solar energy system sale and installation agreement). We are not a party to the loan agreement between the customer and the third-party lender, and the third-party lender has no recourse against us with respect to the loan. We also install energy storage systems for both residential and commercial-scale customers. Energy storage systems may be purchased on a cash basis, without financing, or as part of the purchase and financing of a solar energy system. 40 Gigafactory 1 We work together with our suppliers at Gigafactory 1 to integrate production of battery material, cells, modules, battery packs and drive units in one location for vehicles and energy storage products. We are also continuing to invest in Gigafactory 1 to achieve additional production output there. Panasonic has partnered with us on Gigafactory 1 with investments in the production equipment that it uses to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment at negotiated prices. As these terms convey a finance lease, as defined in ASC 842, Leases , we consider their production equipment to be leased assets when production commences. This results in us recording the value of their production equipment within property, plant and equipment, net, on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding liability recorded to long-term debt and finance leases. For all suppliers and partners for which we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment located at Gigafactory 1, we will apply similar accounting. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded $7 million and $411 million on the consolidated balance sheet. While we currently believe that Gigafactory 1 will allow us to reach our production targets, our ultimate ability to do so will require us to resolve the types of challenges that are typical of a large-scale manufacturing operation. For example, we have in the past experienced bottlenecks in the assembly of battery modules and cell output at Gigafactory 1, which impacted our production of Model 3. While we continue to resolve such issues at Gigafactory 1 as they arise, given the size and complexity of this undertaking, it is possible that future events could result in increased costs of expanding and operating Gigafactory 1 to meet our production targets or Gigafactory 1 taking longer to ramp further than we currently anticipate. Gigafactory 2 We have an agreement with the SUNY Foundation related to the construction and use of a facility in Buffalo, New York, referred to as Gigafactory 2, which we have primarily used for the development and production of our Solar Roof and other solar products and components, energy storage components, and Supercharger components, and for other lessor-approved functions. The terms of such agreement require us to comply with a number of covenants, including required hiring and cumulative investment targets, which we have met to date. Overall, we expect our significant operations at Gigafactory 2 and the surrounding Buffalo area to continue, in particular with our ramp and manufacture of Solar Roof, which we are planning to scale over the remainder of 2019 and into 2020. In addition, Panasonic manufactures PV cells and modules in a portion of Gigafactory 2. Although we expect to meet all applicable covenants with the SUNY Foundation with respect to Teslas progress at and plans for Buffalo, any failure to comply with these covenants could obligate us to pay significant amounts to the SUNY Foundation and result in termination of the agreement. Our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo, including those associated with acquiring equipment and supporting our operations with respect to our production of Solar Roof there, may prove incorrect, which could subject us to significant expenses to achieve the desired benefits. Gigafactory Shanghai We have commenced production of full Model 3 vehicles on a trial basis at Gigafactory Shanghai, which we are constructing in order to increase the affordability of our vehicles for customers in China by reducing transportation and manufacturing costs and eliminating certain tariffs on vehicles imported from the U.S. Subject to a number of uncertainties inherent in all new manufacturing operations, including final approvals under and ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements, potential supply chain constraints, and the pace of bringing production equipment and processes online with the capability to manufacture high-quality units at scale, we expect Gigafactory Shanghai will have a capacity of 150,000 Model 3 vehicles per year when the first phase of production is ramped. Much of the investment in Gigafactory Shanghai has been and will continue to be provided through local debt financing, including a RMB 3.5 billion term facility that our subsidiary entered into in March 2019, supported by limited direct capital expenditures by us, at a lower cost per unit of production capacity than that of Model 3 production at the Tesla Factory. Other Manufacturing We continue to expand production capacity at our existing facilities. We also intend to further increase cost-competitiveness in our significant markets through local manufacturing, including of Model 3 and Model Y at a future Gigafactory in Europe for which we are in the late stages of site selection. Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses Capital expenditures in 2019 are projected to be slightly below $1.5 billion, to continue to develop our main projects such as the global manufacturing expansion of Model 3, launch and ramp of Model Y, and launch of Tesla Semi, including additional vertical integration of our supply chain and production process, as well as the further expansion of our Supercharger and vehicle service and repair networks. Given the breadth of our various planned projects and our focus on cost efficiency, as we make progress on such projects we may find that our actual spend may be different than previously expected. 41 Likewise, we expect operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to continue to decrease in the future as we focus on increasing operational efficiency and process automation, as well as from increases in expected overall revenues from our expanding sales. In particular, our efforts to scale down and optimize our cost structure relative to the size of our business have already manifested in total operating expenses decreasing from $3.4 billion to $3.1 billion during the nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2019, respectively, including restructuring and other charges. Meanwhile, our total revenues increased from $14.2 billion to $17.2 billion, respectively, during such periods. In March 2018, our stockholders approved the 2018 CEO Performance Award, with vesting contingent on achieving market capitalization and operational milestones. Consequently, we may incur significant additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense over the term of the award as each operational milestone becomes probable of being met. In particular, we will have to record a cumulative catch-up expense at the time each operational milestone becomes probable, which may be material depending on the length of time elapsed from the grant date. See Note 13, Equity Incentive Plans2018 CEO Performance Award , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details regarding the stock-based compensation relating to the 2018 CEO Performance Award. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Automotive sales $ 5,132 $ 5,878 $ (746 ) -13 % $ 13,809 $ 11,558 $ 2,251 19 % Automotive leasing 221 221 0 % 644 634 10 2 % Total automotive revenues 5,353 6,099 (746 ) -12 % 14,453 12,192 2,261 19 % Services and other 548 326 222 68 % 1,646 860 786 91 % Total automotive & services and other segment revenue 5,901 6,425 (524 ) -8 % 16,099 13,052 3,047 23 % Energy generation and storage segment revenue 402 399 3 1 % 1,095 1,183 (88 ) -7 % Total revenues $ 6,303 $ 6,824 $ (521 ) -8 % $ 17,194 $ 14,235 $ 2,959 21 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to the sale of new Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles, including access to our Supercharger network, internet connectivity, Autopilot and FSD features and over-the-air software updates, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Our revenue from regulatory credits fluctuates by quarter depending on when a contract is executed with a buyer and when the credits are delivered. For example, our revenue from regulatory credit sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $134 million while it was $216 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles under direct lease agreements as well as those sold with resale value guarantees accounted for as operating leases under lease accounting. We began offering leasing for Model 3 vehicles in the second quarter of 2019. Services and other revenue consists of non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, and sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers. 42 Automotive sales revenue decreased $746 million , or 13% , in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 , primarily due to a decrease of 10,255 Model S and Model X cash deliveries , partially offset by an increase of 17,1 40 Model 3 cash deliveries from production scaling . The higher proportion of Model 3 leases , which was introduced in the second quarter of 2019, and Model 3 deliveries in our overall population of vehicle deliveries as compared to the prior period contribu ted to the overall decrease of automotive sales revenue despite our overall deliveries increase. Additionally, the deliveries in the three months ended September 30, 2019 were at lower average selling prices due to price adjustments we made to our vehi cle offerings in the first half of 2019 and the introduction of lower end Model 3 trims in 2019 . There was also a decrease of $ 5 5 million in sales of regulatory credits to $ 134 million in the three months ended September 3 0, 2019 compared to $ 189 million in the same period in the prior year. Automotive sales revenue increased $2.25 billion, or 19%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to an increase of 114,749 Model 3 cash deliveries from production scaling, partially offset by a decrease of 22,924 Model S and Model X cash deliveries . The higher proportion of Model 3 leases, which was introduced in the second quarter of 2019, and Model 3 deliveries in our overall population of vehicle deliveries as compared to the prior period contributed to a smaller increase in automotive sales revenue than our overall deliveries increase. The deliveries in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were at lower average selling prices due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the first half of 2019 and the introduction of lower end Model 3 trims in 2019. Additionally, there was an increase of $137 million in sales of regulatory credits to $461 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $324 million in the same period in the prior year. Due to the price adjustments mentioned above, we estimated that there is a greater likelihood that customers will exercise their buyback options that were provided prior to such adjustments. As a result, along with the estimated variable consideration related to normal future product returns for vehicles sold under the buyback options program, we adjusted our sales return reserve on vehicles previously sold under our buyback options program resulting in a reduction of automotive sales revenues of $555 million. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Automotive leasing revenue remained relatively consistent in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. There was an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program, partially due to the introduction of Model 3 leasing in the second quarter of 2019, and an increase in the number of vehicles under leasing programs where our counterparty has elected to retained ownership of the vehicle during or at the end of the guarantee or lease period when compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. When our counterparty retains ownership under our resale value guarantee leasing programs, any remaining balances within deferred revenue and resale value guarantee are settled to automotive leasing revenue. For customers who retain ownership under our direct vehicle leasing program, we recognize the contractual lease payoffs as automotive leasing revenue. These increases were offset by a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee leasing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. Automotive leasing revenue increased $10 million, or 2%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program and an increase in the number of vehicles under our resale value guarantee leasing programs where our counterparty has retained ownership of the vehicle during or at the end of the guarantee period when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. When our counterparty retains ownership under our resale value guarantee leasing programs, any remaining balances within deferred revenue and resale value guarantee are settled to automotive leasing revenue. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee financing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. Services and other revenue increased $222 million, or 68%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Services and other revenue increased $786 million, or 91%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increases in the three and nine months ended September, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year were primarily due to increases in used vehicle sales from increased volumes of trade-in vehicles, partially offset by lower average selling prices for traded-in Tesla vehicles due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings during the first half of 2019. Additionally, there were increases in non-warranty maintenance services revenue as our fleet continues to grow. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Energy generation and storage revenue includes sales of solar energy systems and energy storage products, leasing revenue from solar energy systems under operating leases and PPAs and the sale of solar energy systems incentives. Energy generation and storage revenue increased by $3 million, or 1%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The increase was primarily due to increases in deployments of Powerpack and Powerwall, partially offset by decreases in deployments of cash and loan solar projects. 43 Energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $88 million, or 7% , in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in deployment s of cash and loan solar projects and a decrease in revenue recognized for commercial projects, most predominantly $73 million for the South Australia battery project in the prior period . These decreases were partially offset by increases in deployments of Powerpack and Powerwall. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Cost of revenues Automotive sales $ 4,014 $ 4,406 $ (392 ) -9 % $ 11,124 $ 9,027 $ 2,097 23 % Automotive leasing 117 119 (2 ) -2 % 340 361 (21 ) -6 % Total automotive cost of revenues 4,131 4,525 (394 ) -9 % 11,464 9,388 2,076 22 % Services and other 667 445 222 50 % 2,096 1,212 884 73 % Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues 4,798 4,970 (172 ) -3 % 13,560 10,600 2,960 28 % Energy generation and storage segment 314 330 (16 ) -5 % 956 1,036 (80 ) -8 % Total cost of revenues $ 5,112 $ 5,300 $ (188 ) -4 % $ 14,516 $ 11,636 $ 2,880 25 % Gross profit total automotive $ 1,222 $ 1,574 $ 2,989 $ 2,804 Gross margin total automotive 23 % 26 % 21 % 23 % Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment $ 1,103 $ 1,455 $ 2,539 $ 2,452 Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment 19 % 23 % 16 % 19 % Gross profit energy generation and storage segment $ 88 $ 69 $ 139 $ 147 Gross margin energy generation and storage segment 22 % 17 % 13 % 12 % Total gross profit $ 1,191 $ 1,524 $ 2,678 $ 2,599 Total gross margin 19 % 22 % 16 % 18 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistics costs, vehicle connectivity costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive leasing revenue primarily includes the amortization of operating lease vehicles over the lease term, as well as warranty expenses recognized as incurred. Cost of automotive leasing revenue also includes vehicle connectivity costs and allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network for vehicles under our leasing programs. Cost of services and other revenue includes costs associated with providing non-warranty after-sales services , costs to acquire and certify used vehicles, and costs for retail merchandise. Cost of services and other revenue also includes direct parts, materials and labor costs, manufacturing overhead associated with sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers. Cost of automotive sales revenue decreased $392 million, or 9%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to a decrease of 10,255 Model S and Model X cash deliveries, lower average Model 3 costs per unit compared to the prior period primarily due to improvement of manufacturing efficiencies, and reductions of materials costs, including commercial negotiations with suppliers in the three months ended September 30, 2019. The decrease was partially offset by an increase of 17,140 Model 3 cash deliveries and higher average Model S and Model X costs per unit compared to the prior period from discontinuation of lower end trims in 2019. 44 Cost of automotive sales revenue increased $2.10 billion, or 23% , in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , primarily due to an increase of 114,749 Model 3 cash deliveries and higher average Model S and Model X costs per unit compared to the prior period from discontinuation of lower end trims in 2019. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of 22,924 Model S and Model X cash deliveries and lower average Model 3 costs per unit compared to the prior p eriod primarily due to temporary under-utilization of manufacturing capacity at lower production volumes in the first half of 2018 and other cost efficiencies. Additionally, due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the first half of 2019, we estimated that there is a greater likelihood that customers will exercise their buyback options that were provided prior to such adjustments. If customers elect to exercise the buyback options, we expect to be able to subsequently resell the returned vehicles, which resulted in a reduction of automotive cost of sales of $ 451 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated statements include d elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Cost of automotive leasing revenue remained relatively consistent in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. There was a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee financing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program and an increase in the number of vehicles under leasing programs where our counterparty has retained ownership of the vehicle during or at the end of the guarantee or lease period when compared to the prior period. When our counterparty retains ownership under our leasing programs, the net book value of the leased vehicle of the lease vehicle is expensed to cost of automotive leasing revenue. Cost of automotive leasing revenue decreased $21 million, or 6%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee financing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program and an increase in the number of vehicles under our resale value guarantee leasing programs where our counterparty has retained ownership of the vehicle during or at the end of the guarantee period when compared to the prior period. When our counterparty retains ownership under our resale value guarantee leasing programs, the net book value of the leased vehicle of the lease vehicle is expensed to cost of automotive leasing revenue. Cost of services and other revenue increased $222 million, or 50%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Cost of services and other revenue increased $884 million, or 73%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increases in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year were primarily due to the costs of used vehicle sales from the increased volumes of trade-in vehicles. Additionally, there were increases in the costs of our new service centers, additional service personnel in existing and new service centers, Mobile Service capabilities, parts distribution centers and investment in new body shops to provide maintenance services to our rapidly growing fleet of vehicles. Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 26% to 23% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily related to lower Model S and Model X margins from lower average selling prices due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the first half of 2019. The decrease was partially offset by a slight improvement of Model 3 margins as we achieved additional manufacturing efficiencies in the production of Model 3 year-over-year while average selling price decreased from introduction of lower end trims, and a higher proportion of Model 3 as a percentage of our total automotive sales compared to the prior period. Reductions of materials costs, including commercial negotiations with suppliers in the three months ended September 30, 2019, also had an offsetting impact to the gross margin decrease. Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 23% to 21% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily related to lower Model S and Model X margins from lower average selling prices due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the first half of 2019. Additionally, the price adjustments also resulted in a reduction in gross automotive sales profit of $104 million from the adjustment of our sales return reserve on vehicles previously sold under our buyback options program. The decrease was partially offset by improvement of Model 3 margins compared to the prior period as we achieved additional manufacturing efficiencies in the production of Model 3 and a higher proportion of Model 3 as a percentage of our total automotive sales compared to the prior period. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 23% to 19% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 19% to 16% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decreases of gross margin in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year were primarily due to the automotive gross margin impacts discussed above. 45 Energy Generation and Storage Segment Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect material and labor costs, warehouse rent, freight, warranty expense, other overhead costs and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. In addition, where arrangements are accounted for as operating leases, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of the cost of leased solar energy systems, maintenance costs associated with those systems and amortization of any initial direct costs. Cost of energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $16 million, or 5%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cost of revenue for cash and loan solar projects from lower deployments. Additionally, there were higher costs in the three months ended September 30, 2018 for our solar energy system lease arrangements due to impairment charges. The decrease was partially offset by increases in cost of revenue for Powerpack and Powerwall from increased deployments, and higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. Cost of energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $80 million, or 8%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cost of revenue for commercial energy storage projects, most predominantly $73 million for the South Australia battery project in the prior period, and a decrease in cost of revenue for cash and loan solar projects from lower deployments. These decreases were partially offset by increases in cost of revenue for Powerpack and Powerwall from increased deployments, and higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from 17% to 22% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Energy storage gross margins improved in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the prior period as a result of lower materials costs. Additionally, solar energy system lease arrangement gross margin also increased in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the prior period, as there were higher costs in the three months ended September 30, 2018 for our solar energy system lease arrangements due to impairment charges. These increases were partially offset by lower margins in our cash and loan solar energy system business driven by higher fixed costs per project as a result of lower deployments in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. Gross margin for energy generation and storage remained relatively consistent at 13% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Energy storage gross margins improved in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the prior period as a result of lower materials costs, partially offset by lower gross margins in our cash and loan solar energy system business driven by higher fixed costs per project as a result of lower deployments and higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Research and development $ 334 $ 351 $ (17 ) -5 % $ 998 $ 1,104 $ (106 ) -10 % As a percentage of revenues 5 % 5 % 6 % 8 % Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue remained relatively consistent in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily from our focus on increasing operational efficiency and process automation, our efforts to scale down and optimize our cost structure relative to the size of our business, as well as from an increase in overall revenues from our expanding sales. R&D expenses decreased $17 million, or 5%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from cost efficiency initiatives. R&D expenses decreased $106 million, or 10%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a $71 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from cost efficiency initiatives and a $26 million decrease in facilities, freight, and depreciation expenses . 46 Selling, General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 596 $ 730 $ (134 ) -18 % $ 1,947 $ 2,167 $ (220 ) -10 % As a percentage of revenues 9 % 11 % 11 % 15 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses generally consist of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and litigation settlements. SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same periods ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily from our focus on increasing operational efficiency and process automation, our efforts to scale down and optimize our cost structure relative to the size of our business. The decrease in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 percentage as compared to the prior period was also due to an increase in overall revenues from our expanding sales. SG&A expenses decreased $134 million, or 18%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a $103 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from decreased headcount and cost efficiency initiatives, and a $25 million decrease in marketing expenses. SG&A expenses decreased $220 million, or 10%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a $248 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from decreased headcount and cost efficiency initiatives, partially offset by a $40 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to the 2018 CEO Performance Award and stock awards granted for new hires and refresher employee stock grants. Restructuring and other Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Restructuring and other $ $ 27 $ (27 ) -100 % $ 161 $ 130 $ 31 24% As a percentage of revenues 0 % 0 % 1 % 1 % Restructuring and other expenses decreased $27 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. We recognized settlement and legal expenses of $26 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 for the settlement with the SEC relating to a take-private proposal for Tesla. These expenses were substantially paid by the end of 2018. There were no restructuring actions during the three months ended September 30, 2019. Restructuring and other expenses increased $31 million, or 24%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we carried out certain restructuring actions in order to reduce costs and improve efficiency. As a result, we recognized $50 million of costs primarily related to employee termination expenses and losses from closing certain stores impacting both segments. We recognized $47 million in impairment related to IPR&D intangible asset as we abandoned further development efforts (refer to Note 4, Goodwill and Intangible Assets for details) and $15 million for the related equipment within the energy generation and storage segment. We also incurred a loss of $49 million for closing operations in certain facilities. On the statement of cash flows, the amounts were presented in the captions in which such amounts would have been recorded absent the impairment charges. The employee termination expenses were substantially paid by September 30, 2019, while the remaining amounts were non-cash. The restructuring actions during nine months ended September 30, 2019 will result in an estimated cost savings of approximately $62 million for the remainder of 2019. In addition to the take-private proposal charge in the third quarter of 2018 as discussed above, we carried out certain restructuring actions in order to reduce costs and improve efficiency in the second quarter of 2018. As a result, in the three months ended June 30, 2018, we recognized $34 million of one-time employee termination expenses and estimated losses from sub-leasing a certain facility. Also included within restructuring and other activities was $56 million of expenses (materially all of which were non-cash) from restructuring the energy generation and storage segment, which were comprised of disposals of certain tangible assets, the shortening of the useful life of a trade name intangible asset and a contract termination penalty. In addition, we concluded that a portion of IPR&D is not commercially feasible. Consequently, we recognized an impairment loss of $13 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018. Interest Expense Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Interest expense $ (185 ) $ (175 ) $ (10 ) 6 % $ (515 ) $ (488 ) $ (27 ) 6 % As a percentage of revenues 3 % 3 % 3 % 3 % 47 Interest expense increased by $10 million, or 6%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Interest expense increased by $27 million, or 6%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increases were primarily due to an increase in the average carrying balances of interest bearing debt in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same periods in the prior year. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, Change September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Other income, net $ 85 $ 23 $ 62 270 % $ 70 $ 36 $ 34 94% As a percentage of revenues 1 % 0 % 0 % 0 % Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and changes in the fair values of our fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Other income (expense), net, increased by $62 million, or 270%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Other income (expense), net, increased by $34 million, or 94%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. These changes were primarily due to favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by losses from interest rate swaps related to our debt facilities when compared to the prior period. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Provision for income taxes $ 26 $ 17 $ 9 53 % $ 68 $ 36 $ 32 89 % Effective tax rate 15 % 6 % -8 % -3 % Our provision for income taxes increased by $9 million, or 53%, in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. Our provision for income taxes increased by $32 million, or 89%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The increases were primarily due to the increases in taxable profits in certain foreign jurisdictions year-over-year. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries $ 7 $ (57 ) $ 64 Not meaningful $ 60 $ (157 ) $ 217 Not meaningful Our net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests was related to financing fund arrangements. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests changed unfavorably by $64 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The change was primarily due to lower activities in our financing fund arrangements. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests changed unfavorably by $217 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The change was primarily due to lower activities in our financing fund arrangements and a charge related to buyout of noncontrolling interests. 48 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2019, we had $5.34 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $616 million and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan, euros and Canadian dollars. Our sources of cash are predominantly from our deliveries of vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt facilities, proceeds from financing funds and proceeds from equity offerings. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows enable us to fund ongoing operations, research and development projects for new products, and development of our main projects such as the global manufacturing expansion of Model 3, launch and ramp of Model Y, and launch of Tesla Semi, including additional vertical integration of our supply chain and production process, as well as the further expansion of our Supercharger and vehicle service and repair networks. We currently expect total 2019 capital expenditures to be slightly below $1.5 billion. In 2019 and beyond, we will continue to apply our increasing experience and learnings from past and current product ramps to attain a level of capital efficiency per dollar of spend that is significantly greater than historical levels. For example, based on our experience with ramping Model 3 at the Tesla Factory, we have achieved capital spend per unit of Model 3 manufacturing capacity for the first phase of Gigafactory Shanghai that is less than that of the ramp of our line in Fremont and we expect the same for the production ramp of Model Y at the Tesla Factory, particularly given the expected substantial commonality of components between Model Y and Model 3. Considering the pipeline of new products planned at this point, and all other infrastructure growth and investments in Gigafactory 1, Gigafactory 2, Gigafactory Shanghai and future planned manufacturing facilities, we currently estimate that capital expenditures will be between $2.0 to $2.5 billion annually for the next two fiscal years. However, given the breadth of our various planned projects, and our focus on cost efficiency, our cost structure is difficult to predict with accuracy long-term and as we make progress on such projects we may find that our actual spend may be different than previously expected. Moreover, we expect that the cash we generate from our core operations will generally be sufficient to cover our future capital expenditures and to pay down our near-term debt obligations, although we may choose to seek alternative financing sources. For example, much of the investment in Gigafactory Shanghai has been and will continue to be funded through indebtedness arranged through local financial institutions in China, including a RMB 3.5 billion term facility that our subsidiary entered into in March 2019. Moreover, given the length of the transit time between the Tesla Factory and China during which our vehicles, particularly Model S and Model X, are counted as finished goods inventory, our subsidiary entered into a revolving facility of up to RMB 5.0 billion in September 2019 to finance such vehicles in-transit. As always, we continually evaluate our capital expenditure needs and may decide it is best to raise additional capital to fund the rapid growth of our business. We have an agreement with the SUNY Foundation to spend or incur $5.0 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold, and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. We anticipate meeting our applicable obligations to the SUNY Foundation through our operations at this facility and other operations within the State of New York, and we do not believe that we face a significant risk of default. We expect that our current sources of liquidity together with our projection of cash flows from operating activities will provide us with adequate liquidity over at least the next 12 months. A large portion of our future expenditures is to fund our growth, and we can adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment, including future expansion of our product offerings and our Supercharger and vehicle service and repair networks. We may need or want to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available to us when we need or want them, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. In addition, we had $1.99 billion of unused committed amounts under our credit facilities and financing funds as of September 30, 2019, some of which are subject to satisfying specified conditions prior to draw-down (such as pledging to our lenders sufficient amounts of qualified receivables, inventories, leased vehicles and our interests in those leases, solar energy systems and the associated customer contracts, our interests in financing funds or various other assets; and contributing or selling qualified solar energy systems and the associated customer contracts or qualified leased vehicles and our interests in those leases into the financing funds). Upon the draw-down of any unused committed amounts, there are no restrictions on the use of such funds for general corporate purposes. For details regarding our indebtedness and financing funds, refer to Note 11, Long-Term Debt Obligations , and Note 15, Variable Interest Entity Arrangements , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Summary of Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 980 $ 863 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,033 ) $ (1,972 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,608 $ 686 49 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative and working capital, especially inventory, which includes vehicles in transit. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales, lease payments directly from customers, customer deposits, sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage products. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, employee compensation, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings. Net cash from operating activities changed favorably by $117 million to net cash provided by operating activities of $980 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 from net cash provided by operating activities of $863 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. This favorable change was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses and gains, of $744 million, partially offset by the increase in net operating assets and liabilities of $439 million and $188 million of the repayment of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2019 which was classified as an operating activity, as this represented an interest payment on the discounted convertible notes. The increase in net operating assets and liabilities was mainly driven by a smaller increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year, as we were ramping for Model 3 production in 2018. This was partially offset by a smaller increase in inventory and accounts receivable in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $915 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, mainly for Gigafactory Shanghai and Model 3 production, and $1.78 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, mainly for Model 3 production. Design, acquisition and installation of solar energy systems amounted to $68 million and $189 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Additionally, we also paid $45 million, net of the cash acquired, for business acquisitions in the nine months ended September 30, 2019. In 2014, we began construction of Gigafactory 1. We used $131 million and $593 million of cash towards Gigafactory 1 construction during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 consisted primarily of $1.82 billion from the issuance of the 2024 Notes, net of transaction costs, and $847 million from the issuance of common stock, net of underwriting discounts and offering costs , in registered public offerings, $494 million of net borrowings under our Warehouse Agreements, $287 million of net borrowings under the Credit Agreement, and $174 million from the issuance of warrants i n connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes . These cash inflows were partially offset by a $732 million portion of the repayment of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2019 that was classified as financing activity, a purchase of convertible note hedges of $476 million i n connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes , repayments of $345 million of the automotive asset-backed notes and collateralized lease repayments of $302 million . See Note 11, Long-Term Debt Obligations , and Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details regarding our debt obligations and collateralized borrowings, respectively. Cash flows from financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 consisted primarily of $546 million from the issuance of automobile lease-backed notes, $484 million of net borrowings under the Credit Agreement, and $185 million net proceeds from investments by fund investors. Additionally, there were collateralized lease repayments of $343 million and repayments of automobile lease-backed notes of $129 million. 50 Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations did not materially change during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 except for debt activity and lease activity, as discussed in more detail in Note 11, Long-Term Debt Obligations and Note 12, Leases , and the aggregate impact of certain supplier arrangements we entered into during the quarter ended September 30, 2019. The following table sets forth the aggregate impact from these supplier arrangements on our purchase obligations as of September 30, 2019 (in millions): Three months ending December 31, 2019 $ 274 2020 771 2021 282 2022 35 Total $ 1,362 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.