ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. These discussions contain forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, expectations regarding demand and acceptance for our technologies, growth opportunities and trends in the market in which we operate, prospects and plans and objectives of management. The words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, will, would and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. In addition to designing and manufacturing our vehicles, we sell and service them through our own sales and service network. We were incorporated in Delaware in 2003 and introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. In July 2009, we introduced a new Roadster model, the Tesla Roadster 2, and its higher performance option package Roadster Sport. On July 1, 2010, we introduced the Roadster 2.5, with new styling and an upgraded interior. As of September 30, 2010, we had sold Tesla Roadsters to customers in 31 countries, primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. We are developing our planned Model S sedan which we currently expect to introduce commercially in 2012. We market and sell our vehicles directly to consumers via the phone and internet, in-person at our corporate events and through our network of Tesla stores. We opened our first store in Los Angeles, California, in May 2008 and as of September 30, 2010, we operated a total of 14 Tesla stores in North America and Europe. We have entered, and intend to enter, into development and commercial agreements with other manufacturers for the development and sale of electric powertrain components. From inception through December 31, 2009, these powertrain development activities were exclusively pursuant to a development arrangement, which was formalized in an agreement in May 2009 with Daimler AG, or Daimler, for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimlers Smart fortwo electric drive. Additionally, we have been selected by Daimler to supply it with up to 1,500 battery packs and chargers to support a trial of the Smart fortwo electric drive in at least five European cities. We began shipping the first of these battery packs and chargers in November 2009 and started to recognize revenue for these sales in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. During the quarter ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May 2010. In the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we completed the development and sale of modular battery packs for electric delivery vans for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, or Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler and recognized revenue related to these development services. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials. 33 Table of Contents In May 2010, we and Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive Toyotas support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for the Model S. In July 2010, the two companies entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes will be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation during the three months ended September 30, 2010. In connection with the Toyota RAV4 program, in October 2010, we entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to the agreement, based on preliminary specifications, Toyota will pay us approximately $60 million for the development services to be provided by us over the term of the agreement. We and Toyota will mutually agree to the final specifications, deliverables and payment amounts and schedule within 60 days of the execution of the agreement. This amount will be paid in various installments during the term of the agreement. In May 2010, we also entered into an agreement to purchase an existing automobile production facility in Fremont, California from New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI), which is a joint venture between Toyota and Motors Liquidation Company, the owner of selected assets of General Motors. In October 2010, we completed the purchase and received title to the facility and land. The aggregate purchase price was $42.0 million. The purchase totals 210 acres, or approximately 55% of the land at the site, and includes all of the manufacturing facilities located thereon. In October 2010, we and NUMMI also amended the facility purchase agreement to include the transfer to us of certain operating permits for additional consideration of $6.5 million. We completed the transfer of these permits in October 2010. In August 2010, we entered into an additional purchase agreement with NUMMI for the purchase of certain manufacturing equipment and spare parts located at the Fremont facility above. This purchase agreement was subsequently amended to include additional manufacturing equipment and spare parts. In October 2010, we completed this purchase concurrent with the completion of the facility purchase. The aggregate purchase price for these assets was approximately $17 million. We intend to use the facility and manufacturing assets for the production of our planned Model S and future vehicles. We are in an early stage of planning for this facility. Since inception through September 30, 2010, we had recognized $207.2 million in revenue. As of September 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $363.6 million. Initial Public Offering and Toyota Concurrent Private Placement On June 28, 2010, our registration statement on Form S-1 relating to our initial public offering (IPO) was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The IPO closed on July 2, 2010, at which time we sold 11,880,600 shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of $188.8 million from this transaction, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. Additionally, we have incurred offering costs of $4.4 million related to the IPO which we have reclassified from other noncurrent assets and offset against additional paid-in capital in stockholders equity. Concurrent with the closing of our IPO in July 2010, we received proceeds of $50.0 million from the issuance of 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota in a private placement transaction. 34 Table of Contents Following the completion of our IPO and concurrent private placement on July 2, 2010, we transferred $100.0 million of the net proceeds from the IPO and the concurrent private placement to fund the dedicated account, as required under our Department of Energy (DOE) Loan Facility. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we transferred $11.9 million from the dedicated account to our operating cash accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. As of September 30, 2010, $88.1 million remained in the dedicated account. As we expect to transfer the remainder of this balance within one year, we have recorded such cash as current restricted cash. Panasonic Common Stock Investment In November 2010, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 1,418,573 shares of our common stock at a price of $21.15 per share, which was the average of the trading highs and lows of our common stock from October 25 to October 29, 2010. Upon completion of the private placement transaction on November 2, we received aggregate proceeds of $30.0 million. Concurrently with the sale and issuance of the shares to Panasonic, we amended our investors rights agreement as of November 2, 2010 to grant Panasonic registration rights on a pari passu basis with certain other holders of registration rights with respect to the shares of common stock purchased in the private placement. Management Discussion Regarding Opportunities, Challenges and Risks To date we have derived our revenue principally from sales of the Tesla Roadster and related sales of zero emission vehicle credits, and to a lesser extent on products and development services related to electric powertrain activities. We intend in the longer term to derive substantial revenues from the sales of our planned Model S sedan electric vehicle which is at an early stage of development and which we currently expect to introduce commercially in 2012, as well as from our powertrain products and development services. We currently design, manufacture and sell the Tesla Roadster, our first production vehicle that we introduced in 2008. From inception to-date, Tesla Roadster sales have been mainly to customers in North America; however, with the start of sales in Europe in the second half of 2009 and recent sales in Asia and Canada, we believe there is a significant opportunity for sales outside the United States and we continue to experience sales growth in Europe, Asia and Canada. The Tesla Roadster has only been produced in low volume quantities and is currently partially assembled by Lotus in its facilities in the United Kingdom. During the first three quarters of 2009, we fulfilled a significant number of reservations for the Tesla Roadster placed prior to 2009. Beginning with the quarter ended December 31, 2009, sales of the Tesla Roadster began more closely approximating the level of orders placed during the quarter. We have a supply agreement with Lotus, which we amended in March 2010, pursuant to which we are obligated to purchase a minimum of 2,400 Tesla Roadster vehicles or gliders over the term of the agreement, which will expire in December 2011. We currently intend to manufacture gliders with Lotus for our current generation Tesla Roadster until December 2011. We intend to use these gliders in the manufacturing of the Tesla Roadster to both fulfill orders placed in 2011 as well as new orders placed in 2012 until our supply of gliders is exhausted. Accordingly, we intend to offer a number of Tesla Roadsters for sale in 2012. To the extent we wish to sell additional Tesla Roadsters with the Lotus gliders beyond the 2,400 we have already contracted for, we will need to negotiate a new or amended supply agreement with Lotus but may be unable to do so on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. We do not currently plan to begin selling our next generation Tesla Roadster until at least one year after the launch of the Model S which is expected to be in production in 2012. We intend to manufacture our next generation Tesla Roadster entirely in our own facilities. The Tesla Roadster is a high-end luxury automobile with a current effective base price of $101,500 in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the currently available United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Continued difficult economic conditions, competition from third parties and the availability of the Model S could result in depressed sales of the Tesla Roadster. 35 Table of Contents We are designing our second vehicle, the Model S for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and plan to manufacture the Model S in higher volumes than our current volumes for the Tesla Roadster in our manufacturing facility in Fremont, California. We completed the purchase of the Fremont manufacturing facility in October 2010 and are in an early stage of planning for this facility. We have secured a $363.9 million loan under our DOE Loan Facility for the continued development of the Model S and the build out of our planned Model S manufacturing facility, which is subject to certain draw conditions. However, our Model S production model will require significant investments of cash and management resources and we may experience unexpected delays or difficulties that could postpone our ability to launch the Model S on our planned timeline or result in cost overruns. In addition, there is no guarantee that a market for the Model S will develop. We are continuing to develop our electric powertrain components and systems sales and services and have secured a $101.2 million loan under our DOE Loan Facility for the expansion of our engineering and production capability for these activities in our Palo Alto facility, which is subject to certain draw conditions. Until June 2010, Daimler and its affiliates were the sole customers of our powertrain activities and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure future business with Daimler as it has indicated its intent to produce all of its lithium-ion batteries by 2012 as part of a joint venture with Evonik Industries AG and has announced it has entered into a memorandum of understanding with BYD Auto to collaborate on the development of an electric car under a jointly owned new brand for the Chinese market. Recently, Daimler has indicated that there may be an opportunity for us to continue supplying electric powertrain components, including battery packs, in 2012 and beyond, but we have not entered into any agreements with Daimler for these arrangements. In July and October 2010, Tesla and Toyota entered into Phase 0 and Phase 1 agreements, respectively, related to the development of an electric version of the Toyota RAV4. With an aim to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes will be made combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We plan to produce and deliver a fleet of prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in 2010. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining powertrain customers in the future. Unadjusted Error in 2009 In June 2010, we identified an error related to the understatement in stock-based compensation expense subsequent to the issuance of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we granted certain stock options for which a portion of the grant was immediately vested. We erroneously accounted for the expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the award, while expense recognition should always be at least commensurate with the number of awards vesting during the period. As a result, selling, general and administrative expenses and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 were understated by $2.7 million. The error did not have an effect on the valuation of the stock options. As stock-based compensation expense is a non-cash item, there was no impact on net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009. 36 Table of Contents To correct this error, we recorded additional stock-based compensation of $2.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2010. We considered the impact of the error on reported operating expenses and trends in operating results and determined that the impact of the error was not material to previously reported financial information as well as those related to the three months ended June 30, 2010. We also evaluated this control deficiency in the context of our internal control over financial reporting and based on the magnitude, nature and extent of the error, determined that such deficiency would be considered a significant deficiency. A significant deficiency is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for the oversight of the companys financial reporting. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Automotive Sales We recognize automotive sales revenue from sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle, or ZEV, credits. We also recognize automotive sales revenue from the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components, such as battery packs and battery chargers, to other manufacturers. We recognize revenue when (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred and there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; (iii) fees are fixed or determinable; and (iv) collection is reasonably assured. Automotive sales consist primarily of revenue earned from the sale of vehicles. Sales or other amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. Prior to February 2010, we did not provide direct financing for the purchase of the Tesla Roadster although a third-party lender has provided financing arrangements to our customers in the United States. Under these arrangements we have been paid in full by the customer at the time of purchase. Starting in February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States. 37 Table of Contents Automotive sales also consist of revenue earned from the sales of vehicle options, accessories and destination charges. While these sales may take place separately from a vehicle sale, they are often part of one vehicle sale agreement resulting in multiple element arrangements. Contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for recognition of our revenue, including whether the deliverables specified in the multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting, and, if so, how the price should be allocated among the elements, when to recognize revenue for each element, and the period over which revenue should be recognized. We are also required to evaluate whether a delivered item has value on a stand-alone basis prior to delivery of the remaining items by determining whether we have made separate sales of such items or whether the undelivered items are essential to the functionality of the delivered items. Further, we assess whether we know the fair value of the undelivered items, determined by reference to stand-alone sales of such items. To date, we have been able to establish the fair value for each of the deliverables within the multiple element arrangements because we sell each of the vehicles, vehicle accessories and options separately, outside of any multiple element arrangements. As each of these items has stand alone value to the customer, revenue from sales of vehicle accessories and options are recognized when those specific items are delivered to the customer. Increased complexity to our sales agreements or changes in our judgments and estimates regarding application of these revenue recognition guidelines could result in a change in the timing or amount of revenue recognized in future periods. Development Services Revenue from development services arrangements consist of revenue earned from the development of electric vehicle powertrain components for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs and chargers to meet a customers specifications. Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we started entering into such contracts with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. Revenue is recognized as a development arrangement is finalized, the performance requirements of each development arrangement are met and collection is reasonably assured. Where development arrangements include substantive at-risk milestones, revenue is recognized based upon the achievement of the contractually-defined milestones. Amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet. As of September 30, 2010, we had deferred $2.9 million in revenue related to development services. Increased complexity to our development agreements or changes in our judgments and estimates regarding application of these revenue recognition guidelines could result in a change in the timing or amount of revenue recognized in future periods. Costs of development services are expensed as incurred. Costs of development services incurred in periods prior to the finalization of an agreement are recorded as research and development expenses; once an agreement is finalized, these costs are recorded in cost of revenues. Prior to 2010, compensation from the Smart fortwo development arrangement with Daimler, which is discussed below under Development Compensation, was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. This early arrangement was motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage Daimler and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. Development Compensation We began receiving payments under the Smart fortwo development arrangement with Daimler in the year ended December 31, 2008 to compensate us for the cost of our development activities. We deferred recognition for these payments received in advance of the execution of the final agreement because a number of significant contractual terms were not in place prior to that time. Upon entering into the final agreement in May 2009, we began recognizing the deferred development compensation as an offset to our research and development expenses on a straight-line basis. This amount was recognized over the expected life of the agreement, beginning in May 2009 and continuing through November 2009. Payments that we received upon the achievement of development milestones subsequent to contract execution in May 2009 were recognized upon achievement and acceptance of the respective milestones. All amounts received under this development agreement have been recognized as an offset to our research and development expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. All development activities under this agreement were completed as of December 31, 2009. 38 Table of Contents Inventory Valuation We value our inventories at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory write-downs for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventories based upon assumptions about future demand forecasts. If our inventory on hand is in excess of our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written off. We also review inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the estimated cost to convert inventory on hand into a finished product. Once inventory is written-down, a new, lower-cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, we recorded write-downs of $0.3 million, $0.7 million, $0.3 million and $1.0 million to cost of automotive sales, respectively. The inventory amounts are based on our current estimates of demand, selling prices and production costs. Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change, material changes to these reserves may be required. Further, a small change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. Warranties We accrue warranty reserves at the time a vehicle is delivered to a customer. Warranty reserves include managements best estimate of the projected costs to repair or to replace any items under warranty, based on actual warranty experience as it becomes available and other known factors that may impact our evaluation of historical data. We review our reserves at least quarterly to ensure that our accruals are adequate in meeting expected future warranty obligations, and we will adjust our estimates as needed. Initial warranty data can be limited early in the launch of a new vehicle and accordingly, the adjustments that we record may be material. As of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had $5.2 million and $3.8 million in warranty reserves, respectively. Adjustments to warranty reserves are recorded in cost of sales. It is likely that as we sell additional Tesla Roadsters we will acquire additional information on the projected costs to repair or to replace items under warranty and may need to make additional adjustments. Further, a small change in our warranty estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. We began selling powertrain components and recognizing such sales during the quarter ended December 31, 2009. As a result, we began accruing warranty reserves for these products. As with our warranty reserves for vehicle sales, we intend to review our powertrain warranty reserves at least quarterly to ensure that our accruals are adequate in meeting expected future warranty obligations, and will adjust our estimates as needed. 39 Table of Contents Valuation of Stock-Based Awards, Common Stock and Warrants Stock-Based Compensation Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our stock options granted to employees using the intrinsic value method. The intrinsic value method requires a company to recognize compensation expense for stock options granted to employees based on any differences between the exercise price of the stock options granted and the fair value of the underlying common stock. Under the intrinsic value method, any compensation cost relating to stock options was recorded on the date of the grant in stockholders equity as deferred compensation and was thereafter amortized to expense over the vesting period of the grant. We generally did not recognize stock-based compensation for stock options granted to our employees prior to January 1, 2006 as we granted stock options with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the underlying common stock. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value method of accounting for our stock options granted to employees which requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the stock options, based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair value of the awards is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award, usually the vesting period which is generally four years. We adopted the fair value method using the prospective transition method as we used the minimum value method for the previously required pro forma disclosures. The prospective transition method requires us to continue to apply the intrinsic value method in future periods to equity awards outstanding as of January 1, 2006. Under the prospective transition method, any compensation costs that will be recognized from January 1, 2006 will include only: (a) compensation cost for all stock-based awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of December 31, 2005, based on the intrinsic value method; and (b) compensation cost for all stock-based awards granted or modified subsequent to December 31, 2005, net of estimated forfeitures, based on fair value. We amortize the fair value of our stock-based compensation for the equity awards granted after January 1, 2006 on a straight-line basis, which we believe better reflects the level of service to be provided by our employees over the vesting period of the awards. In accordance with the prospective transition method, results for prior periods were not restated. Beginning on January 1, 2006, the fair value of each new employee option awarded was estimated on the grant date for the periods below using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 2009 2010 2009 Risk-free interest rate 1.9 % 2.5 % 2.0 % 2.2 % Expected term (in years) 6.0 4.6 5.0 4.6 Expected volatility 70 % 64 % 71 % 64 % Dividend yield 0 % 0 % 0 % 0 % If in the future we determine that another method for calculating the fair value of our stock options is more reasonable, or if another method for calculating the above input assumptions is prescribed by authoritative guidance, the fair value calculated for our employee stock options could change significantly. 40 Table of Contents The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. Further, the forfeiture rate also affects the amount of aggregate compensation. These inputs are subjective and generally require significant judgment. The risk-free interest rate that we use is based on the United States Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant for zero coupon United States Treasury notes with maturities approximating each grants expected life. Given our limited history with employee grants, we use the simplified method in estimating the expected term for our employee grants. The simplified method, as permitted by the SEC, is calculated as the average of the time-to-vesting and the contractual life of the options. Our expected volatility is derived from the historical volatilities of several unrelated public companies within industries related to our business, including the automotive OEM, automotive retail, automotive parts and battery technology industries, because we have no trading history on our common stock. When making the selections of our peer companies within industries related to our business to be used in the volatility calculation, we also considered the stage of development, size and financial leverage of potential comparable companies. Our historical volatility is weighted based on certain qualitative factors and combined to produce a single volatility factor. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on an analysis of our actual forfeitures and will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover behavior and other factors. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant effect on reported stock-based compensation expense, as the cumulative effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If a revised forfeiture rate is higher than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in a decrease to the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. If a revised forfeiture rate is lower than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in an increase to the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. As we accumulate additional employee option data over time and as we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate significantly different volatilities, expected lives and forfeiture rates, which could materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in our cost of sales, research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. We account for stock options issued to nonemployees also based on their estimated fair value determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. However, the fair value of the equity awards granted to nonemployees is re-measured as the awards vest, and the resulting increase in value, if any, is recognized as expense during the period the related services are rendered. Common Stock Valuation Upon the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, our common stock has been valued by reference to its publicly traded price. Prior to the IPO, we have historically granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common stock as determined at the date of grant by our Board of Directors. Because there has been no public market for our common stock, our Board of Directors has determined the fair value of our common stock by considering a number of objective and subjective factors, including the following: our sales of convertible preferred stock to unrelated third parties; our operating and financial performance; 41 Table of Contents the lack of liquidity of our capital stock; trends in our industry; arms length, third-party sales of our stock; and contemporaneous valuations performed by an unrelated third-party. There is inherent uncertainty in these estimates and if we had made different assumptions than those used, the amount of our stock-based compensation expense, net loss and net loss per share amounts could have been significantly different. The following table summarizes, by grant date, the number of stock options granted since January 1, 2008 through the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, and the associated per share exercise price, which equaled the fair value of our common stock for each of these grants. Grant Date Number of Options Granted Exercise Price and Fair Value per Share of Common Stock June 4, 2008 762,137 $ 2.70 July 8, 2008 278,308 2.70 September 3, 2008 200,155 2.70 October 29, 2008 205,156 2.70 March 2, 2009 214,813 2.70 April 13, 2009 1,005,837 2.70 April 22, 2009 105,184 2.70 August 4, 2009 323,063 2.94 October 21, 2009 590,638 6.15 December 4, 2009 7,977,444 6.63 December 16, 2009 58,995 6.63 March 3, 2010 402,660 9.96 April 28, 2010 256,320 13.23 June 12, 2010 1,135,710 14.17 Included in the December 4, 2009 awards, were 6,711,972 stock options granted to our Chief Executive Officer comprised of two grants. In recognition of his and our companys achievements and to create incentives for future success, the Board of Directors approved an option grant representing 4% of our fully-diluted share base prior to such grant as of December 4, 2009, or 3,355,986 stock options, with 1/4th of the shares vesting immediately, and 1/36th of the remaining shares scheduled to vest each month over three years, assuming continued employment through each vesting date. In addition, to create incentives for the attainment of clear performance objectives around a key element of our current business planthe successful launch and commercialization of the Model Sthe Board of Directors approved additional options totaling an additional 4% of our fully-diluted shares prior to such grant as of December 4, 2009, with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of performance objectives as follows, assuming Mr. Musks continued service to us through each vesting date: 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the successful completion of the Model S Engineering Prototype; 42 Table of Contents 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the successful completion of the Model S Validation Prototype; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the completion of the first Model S Production Vehicle; and 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the completion of the 10,000th Model S Production Vehicle. If Mr. Musk does not meet one or more of the above milestones prior to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant, he will forfeit his right to the unvested portion of the grant. Included in our June and September 2010 stock option grants were 666,300 and 20,000 stock options granted respectively, to various members of our senior management with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of the same performance objectives as those outlined for Mr. Musk above. Prior to our IPO which was completed on July 2, 2010, our Board of Directors performed valuations of our common stock for purposes of granting stock options in a manner consistent with the methods outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation . The enterprise value input of our common stock valuations were derived either using fundamental analysis (income and market approaches) or based on a recent round of financing (option pricing approach). The income approach estimates the enterprise value of the company by discounting the expected future cash flows of the company to present value. We have applied discount rates that reflect the risks associated with our cash flow projections and have used venture capital rates of return for companies at a similar stage of development as us, as a proxy for our cost of capital. Our discounted cash flow calculations are sensitive to highly subjective assumptions that we were required to make at each valuation date relating to appropriate discount rates for various components of our business. For example, the discount rates used to value the cash flow projections from the Model S business factored in the low cost debt we expected to raise from the U.S. Department of Energy. Valuation Date Range of Discount Rates December 31, 2007 30.0 40.0% May 15, 2008 30.0 40.0% December 31, 2008 30.0 40.0% February 28, 2009 30.0 40.0% May 11, 2009 16.2 34.8% August 1, 2009 16.2 34.8% October 15, 2009 12.4 27.1% November 27, 2009 12.4 27.1% February 23, 2010 11.4 20.0% April 21, 2010 14.4 20.0% June 9, 2010 14.5 20.0% Our projected cash flows have been primarily derived from our Tesla Roadster, Model S and powertrain revenue streams. More recently, these cash flow projections take into account the fact that we have been selling the Tesla Roadster since 2008, that we began selling powertrain components in the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and our anticipation of Model S production in 2012. 43 Table of Contents Under the market approach, the total enterprise value of the company is estimated by comparing our business to similar businesses whose securities are actively traded in public markets, or businesses that are involved in a public or private transaction. Prior transactions in our stock are also considered as part of the market approach methodology. We have selected revenue valuation multiples derived from trading multiples of public companies that participate in the automotive OEM, automotive retail, automotive parts and battery technology industries. These valuation multiples were then applied to the equivalent financial metric of our business, giving consideration to differences between our company and similar companies for such factors as company size and growth prospects. For those reports that relied on the fundamental analysis, we prepared a financial forecast to be used in the computation of the enterprise value for both the market approach and the income approach. The financial forecasts took into account our past experience and future expectations. The risks associated with achieving these forecasts were assessed in selecting the appropriate discount rate. As discussed below, there is inherent uncertainty in these estimates. Second, we allocated the resulting equity value among the securities that comprise our capital structure using the Option-Pricing Method. The aggregate value of the common stock derived from the Option-Pricing Method was then divided by the number of common shares outstanding to arrive at the per common share value. For those reports that relied on the recent round of financing, we back-solved for the total equity value such that the value of the instrument sold in the recent round as calculated by the option pricing model was consistent with the observed transaction price. Our Board of Directors has considered the valuations derived from the approaches above, the probability and timing of completing an IPO, as well as other qualitative factors in arriving at our common stock valuations, including the following: significant operating losses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009 and the six months ended June 30, 2010; macroeconomic uncertainty in 2008; the absence of a significant IPO market throughout 2008 and continuing through the second quarter of 2009; and other market developments that influence forecasted revenue. Valuations that we have performed require significant use of estimates and assumptions, If different estimates and assumptions had been used, our common stock valuations could be significantly different and related stock-based compensation expense may be materially impacted. Warrants We have accounted for our freestanding warrants to purchase shares of our convertible preferred stock as liabilities at fair value upon issuance. We have recorded the warrants as a liability because the underlying shares of convertible preferred stock are contingently redeemable and, therefore, may obligate us to transfer assets at some point in the future. The warrants are subject to re-measurement to fair value at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as a component of other income (expense), net on the consolidated statements of operations. 44 Table of Contents In January 2010, we issued a warrant to the DOE in connection with the closing of the DOE Loan Facility to purchase shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock at an exercise price of $2.51 per share. This convertible preferred stock warrant became a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share upon the closing of our IPO in July 2010. Beginning on December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under the warrant will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of the DOE Loan Facility during the prior quarter. The warrant may be exercised until December 15, 2023. If we prepay the DOE Loan Facility in part or in full, the total amount of shares exercisable under the warrant will be reduced. Since the number of shares of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant will vary, this warrant will be carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value reflected in other income (expense), net, until its expiration or vesting. Our ability to prepay the DOE Loan Facility and consequently, the number of shares ultimately issuable under the DOE warrant, was determined to represent an embedded derivative. This embedded derivative is inherently valued and accounted for as part of the warrant. Since the number of shares ultimately issuable under the DOE warrants will vary depending on the average outstanding balance of the loan during the contractual vesting period, and decisions to prepay would be influenced by our future stock price as well as the interest rates on our loans in relation to market interest rates, we measured the fair value of the DOE warrant using a Monte Carlo simulation approach. The Monte Carlo approach simulates various scenarios and captures the optimal decisions to be made between prepaying the DOE loan and the cancellation of the DOE warrant over the expected term of the DOE Loan Facility of 13 years. For the purposes of the simulation, the optimal decision represents the scenario with the lowest economic cost to us. The total warrant value would then be calculated as the average warrant payoff across all simulated paths discounted to our valuation date. The significant assumptions that we use in the valuation of the DOE warrant include similar assumptions used in the valuation of otherwise featureless stock warrants at various simulated stock prices, as well as the interest rate differential between the interest rates under our DOE Loan Facility and market interest rates for companies comparable to us. The estimated value of our stock warrant requires us to use a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which incorporates several assumptions that are subject to significant management judgment as is the case for stock-based compensation discussed above. The differential between the interest rates under our DOE Loan Facility and market interest rates is derived from the credit spread data of several unrelated public companies within industries related to our business. As the average simulated value of our stock warrant increases relative to the credit spread of our comparator companies, the fair value of our DOE warrant decreases since the economic cost of prepaying our outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility and replacing the funds with market interest rate debt, would be lower than the economic cost associated with the dilution caused by the vesting of warrants. Similarly, as the credit spread of our comparator companies increases relative to the average simulated value of our stock warrant, the fair value of our DOE warrant increases since the economic cost associated with prepaying our outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility and replacing the funds with market interest rate debt is higher than the economic cost associated with the dilution caused by the vesting of warrants, and therefore, we would not prepay our outstanding DOE debt and we would allow a higher number of warrants to vest. Prior to completion of our IPO, the fair value of the DOE warrant was included within the convertible preferred stock warrant liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Upon the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, this warrant was reclassified on our consolidated balance sheet from convertible preferred stock warrant liability to common stock warrant liability. The DOE warrant will continue to be recorded at its estimated fair value with changes in the fair value reflected in other income (expense), net, as the number of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant is variable until its expiration or vesting. As of September 30, 2010, the fair value of the DOE warrant of $6.7 million. The relative movements in our stock price as compared to the credit spread of our comparator companies will result in fair value changes being recorded in other income (expense), net, in future periods which may be significant. 45 Table of Contents Excluding the warrant issued to the DOE in January 2010, we have estimated the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrants at the respective balance sheet dates using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model which used several assumptions that are subject to significant management judgment as is the case for stock-based compensation as discussed above. Upon the completion of our IPO in July 2010, these convertible preferred stock warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2010, were net exercised and the related convertible preferred stock warrant liability was settled. Income Taxes We record our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations by estimating our taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We estimate our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences arising from differing treatment of items recognized for financial reporting versus tax return purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. In general, deferred tax assets represent future tax benefits to be received when certain expenses previously recognized in our consolidated statements of operations become deductible expenses under applicable income tax laws, or loss or credit carryforwards are utilized. Valuation allowances are recorded when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We make these estimates and judgments about our future taxable income that are based on assumptions that are consistent with our future plans. As of September 30, 2010, we had recorded a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets because we expect that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of our valuation allowance could be materially impacted. Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result, we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes, such as net operating losses, based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that those positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are required to file income tax returns in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our accounting consideration is adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a material change in estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The eventual impact on our income tax expense depends in part if we still have a valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets in the period that such determination is made. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which requires companies to allocate revenue in multiple-element arrangements based on an elements estimated selling price if vendor-specific or other third-party evidence of value is not available. The guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2011 with early application permitted. We are currently evaluating both the timing and the impact of the standard on our consolidated financial statements. 46 Table of Contents In January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures which requires a reporting entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level I and Level II fair value measurements and to describe the reasons for the transfers. In addition, in the reconciliation of fair value measurements using Level III inputs, a reporting entity will be required to disclose information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross rather than on a net basis. The updated guidance will also require fair value disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and non-recurring Level II and Level III fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective for interim or annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures regarding the reconciliation of Level III fair value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which provides guidance on the criteria to be followed in recognizing revenue under the milestone method. The milestone method of recognition allows a vendor who is involved with the provision of deliverables to recognize the full amount of a milestone payment upon achievement if, at the inception of the revenue arrangement, the milestone is determined to be substantive as defined in the standard. The guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect the adoption of the updated guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 2009 2010 2009 Revenues Automotive sales $ 23,350 $ 45,527 $ 67,906 $ 93,358 Development services 7,891 12,552 Total revenues 31,241 45,527 80,458 93,358 Cost of revenues Automotive sales 19,457 37,828 56,581 85,604 Development services 2,488 4,467 Total cost of revenues 21,945 37,828 61,048 85,604 Gross profit 9,296 7,699 19,410 7,754 Operating expenses Research and development (net of development compensation of $8,509 and $17,170 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, respectively) 26,698 1,257 55,379 11,139 Selling, general and administrative 20,432 10,733 59,224 25,587 Total operating expenses 47,130 11,990 114,603 36,726 Loss from operations (37,834 ) (4,291 ) (95,193 ) (28,972 ) Interest income 100 52 195 97 Interest expense (298 ) (18 ) (992 ) (2,506 ) Other income (expense), net 3,180 (577 ) (6,770 ) (320 ) Loss before income taxes (34,852 ) (4,834 ) (102,760 ) (31,701 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 83 (219 ) 210 (203 ) Net loss $ (34,935 ) $ (4,615 ) $ (102,970 ) $ (31,498 ) 47 Table of Contents Revenues Automotive Sales Automotive sales consisted of the following for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 2009 2010 2009 Vehicle, options and related sales $ 18,221 $ 45,527 $ 55,452 $ 93,358 Powertrain component and related sales 5,129 12,454 Total automotive sales $ 23,350 $ 45,527 $ 67,906 $ 93,358 Automotive sales during the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $23.4 million, a decrease from $45.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Automotive sales for the three months ended September 30, 2010 consisted of $18.2 million of vehicle, options and related sales, and $5.1 million of powertrain component and related sales, compared to $45.5 million of vehicle, options and related sales for the three months ended September 30, 2009. Automotive sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $67.9 million, a decrease from $93.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. Automotive sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 consisted of $55.4 million of vehicle, options and related sales, and $12.5 million of powertrain component and related sales, compared to $93.4 million of vehicle, options and related sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. During the first three quarters of 2009, we continued to fulfill reservations for the Tesla Roadster which we began to deliver in 2008, and we had made a significant effort to increase our production capacity in order to accelerate deliveries to customers who had been on our waitlist for a significant amount of time. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue recognized during the first three quarters of 2009 came from fulfilling reservations placed prior to 2009. Beginning with the quarter ended December 31, 2009, sales of the Tesla Roadster began more closely approximating the level of orders placed during the quarter. Consequently, the comparison of revenue for the three or nine months ended September 30, 2010 versus the corresponding periods in 2009 may not be as meaningful. As such, vehicle, options and related sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 were more reflective of current demand as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009. Similarly, zero emission vehicle, or ZEV, credit sales which are included in vehicle, options and related sales, were higher during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 as the fulfillment of a significant number of reservations allowed us to sell a larger number of ZEV credits. The decrease in vehicle deliveries was partially offset by higher selling prices from an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers. In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases and accordingly, we recognize leasing revenues on a straight-line basis over the term of the individual leases. Lease revenues are recorded in vehicle, options and related sales within automotive sales revenue and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we recognized $0.3 million. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 21% and 13%, respectively, of the vehicles delivered during the period were under operating leases. As of September 30, 2010, we had deferred revenues of $0.9 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. 48 Table of Contents Powertrain component and related sales were comprised primarily of battery packs and chargers that we delivered to supply Daimlers Smart fortwo program. We have been selected by Daimler to supply it with up to 1,500 battery packs and chargers to support a trial of the Smart fortwo electric drive in at least five European cities. We began delivering and recognizing revenue for these production battery packs and chargers at the end of 2009. Prior to 2010, most of our revenues had been generated through sales of our vehicles in the United States and we had no revenues from sales outside of the United States prior to the third quarter of 2009. Our international sales commenced with the launch of the Tesla Roadster in Europe in July 2009 and since then, we have recognized revenue from sales of the Tesla Roadster in additional countries including Canada, Japan and Hong Kong beginning in the three months ended June 30, 2010. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, 58% and 55%, respectively, of our revenue from vehicle, options and related sales, were derived outside of the United States. All of our powertrain component and related sales were derived outside of the United States. As we continue to expand into additional new markets, we expect our international revenues to increase in aggregate dollar amounts and to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of total revenues in the near term. While revenue related to servicing vehicles has been insignificant to date, we expect such revenues to increase in future periods as we sell more vehicles and as vehicle warranties begin to expire. Development Services Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we started entering into development services arrangements with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. We began recognizing development services revenue during the first quarter of 2010 with the development and delivery of modular battery packs for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, or Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler. These battery packs were to be used in electric delivery vans in a limited number of Freightliners customer trials. Prior to 2010, compensation that we had received from our first development arrangement with Daimler for battery packs and chargers for its Smart fortwo program, was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. This early arrangement was motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage Daimler and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, Daimler also engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. We began providing development services for this program during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and had received an aggregate of $5.5 million in payments; however, as we had not executed a final agreement related to this program as of March 31, 2010, we deferred the $5.5 million of payments that had been received from Daimler to that point. In May 2010, we executed a final agreement under which Daimler would make additional payments to us for the successful completion of certain development milestones and the delivery of prototype samples, of which we invoiced $14.1 million during through September 30, 2010 and recognized $11.4 million of the total payments received to date in development services revenue. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we recognized $7.3 million in development services revenue. As of September 30, 2010, there was $2.7 million of deferred revenues that will be recognized during the remaining term of this program. 49 Table of Contents In July 2010, we and Toyota entered into a Phase 0 agreement to initiate development of an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. Under this early phase development agreement, prototypes would be made by us by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began producing and delivering prototypes to Toyota during the three months ended September 30, 2010 and recognized $0.5 million in development services revenue. We intend to grow our development services revenue over time by establishing additional commercial arrangements with Daimler, Toyota and other automobile manufacturers. Additionally, we expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $21.9 million, a decrease from $37.8 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Cost of revenues during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $61.0 million, a decrease from $85.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The decrease in cost of revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 was driven primarily by the significant number of vehicles delivered during the first three quarters of 2009 from fulfilling customer reservations placed prior to 2009. In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases and accordingly, we record cost of automotive sales equal to the depreciation of the leased vehicles on a straight-line basis over the term of the individual leases. Cost of automotive sales related to leased vehicles has not been significant. The decrease in cost of revenues from automotive sales for these periods was partially offset by the increase in cost of revenues from development services. Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs related to this program in cost of revenues. Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $9.3 million, an increase from $7.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase was driven primarily by the gross profit contributed by our development services revenues which we began to recognize in 2010; an expanded offering of options on the Tesla Roadster to our customers; and the continued launch of the Tesla Roadster internationally, where in certain markets, we have experienced higher average selling prices. As discussed above, although we had deferred the recognition of revenues on the Daimler A-Class development program until we had executed a final agreement during the three months ended June 30, 2010, costs we had incurred for these activities during the three months ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development in the first quarter. As such, certain of the A-Class development services revenue that we recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, did not have any corresponding cost of revenues recorded during the quarter, which favorably impacted our gross profit. 50 Table of Contents Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $19.4 million, an increase from $7.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase was driven primarily by the gross profit contributed by our development services revenues which we began to recognize in 2010; an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers; and the continued launch of the Tesla Roadster internationally, where in certain markets, we have experienced higher selling prices; cost improvements associated with the model changeover from the Tesla Roadster to the Tesla Roadster 2 during the second half of 2009. Similar to the comparison of gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2010 with the three months ended September 30, 2009, our gross profit was favorably impacted by the fact that certain of the A-Class development services revenue that we recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 did not have any corresponding cost of revenues recorded during the period. We expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. This may cause our gross profit and gross margin to be similarly impacted. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2010 were $26.7 million, an increase from $1.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Research and development expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2009 included $8.7 million in Daimler Smart fortwo development compensation which was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The $25.4 million increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2010 consisted primarily of the $8.7 million Daimler development compensation offset recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2009, a $5.9 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount, a $5.6 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha build as well as powertrain development activities and a $4.8 million increase in professional and outside services costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities. Research and development expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were $55.4 million, an increase from $11.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. Research and development expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2009 included $17.2 million in Daimler Smart fortwo development compensation which was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The $44.2 million increase in research and development expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 consisted primarily of the $17.2 million Daimler development compensation offset recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2009, a $14.6 million increase in employee compensation expenses primarily associated with significantly higher headcount to support our Model S and powertrain development activities, a $6.7 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha build as well as powertrain development activities and a $5.2 million increase in professional and outside services costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities. 51 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs associated with this program in cost of revenues. Since the commercial launch of the Tesla Roadster, our investment in related research and development has decreased significantly. We are, however, in the process of significantly increasing our research and development efforts for the Model S, which has resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses in both aggregate dollar amounts and as a percentage of our revenues. We also anticipate that the additional costs that we will incur in operating our planned Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California will further increase these expenditures until the start of production of the Model S. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2010 were $20.4 million, an increase from $10.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. The $9.7 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2010 consisted primarily of a $3.6 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide including in Asia, a larger number of stores in the United States and Europe and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $2.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and a higher common stock valuation applied to new grants made subsequent to September 30, 2009, and a $1.8 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, including the opening of new stores and our transition to our Palo Alto headquarters. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were $59.2 million, an increase from $25.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The $33.6 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 consisted primarily of a $10.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards, a higher common stock valuation applied to new grants made subsequent to September 30, 2009, and the $2.4 million correction of additional stock-based compensation expense that should have been recorded during the three months ended December 31, 2009; a $10.4 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support a larger number of stores in the United States and Europe and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business; a $5.6 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, including the opening of new stores and our transition to our Palo Alto headquarters; a $2.2 million increase in professional services costs related to ongoing trademark and patent work, recruiting, as well as general corporate development activities; and a $1.7 million increase in travel and expenses related to our sales and marketing activities. The remainder of the increase was driven primarily by a higher level of marketing activities and costs to support expanded headcount. 52 Table of Contents We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase both in aggregate dollar amounts and as a percentage of revenue in future periods as we continue to grow and expand our operations, increase our sales and marketing team to handle our expanding customer base and market presence, and as we meet support the requirements of being a public company. We also expect an increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of our planned increase in the number of Tesla stores. As of September 30, 2010, we had opened 14 Tesla stores in the United States and Europe. We plan to open additional stores during 2010. We also anticipate that the additional costs we will incur in operating our Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California will further increase these expenditures until the start of production of the Model S. Interest Expense Interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $0.3 million, an increase from $18,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Interest expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $1.0 million, a decrease from $2.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in interest expense during the three months September 30, 2010 was primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility. The decrease for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was primarily related to our convertible notes which were converted into shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock in May 2009, partially offset by interest expense recognized in 2010 related to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility. We expect interest expense to increase significantly in aggregate dollar amounts and, prior to the launch of the Model S, as a percentage of revenues, as we continue to draw down on the DOE Loan Facility. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our warrant liabilities and transaction gains and losses on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our transaction gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Income or charges resulting from the change in the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrant liability, excluding the DOE warrant liability, was eliminated after July 2, 2010, as these warrants were net exercised at the completion of our IPO. The DOE convertible preferred stock warrant became a common stock warrant on July 2 and is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other income (expense), net, until its expiration or vesting. Other income, net, during the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $3.2 million, an increase in income compared to other expense, net, of $0.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Other expense, net, during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $6.8 million, an increase in expense compared to other expense, net, of $0.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase in income for the three months ended September 30, 2010 was primarily due to a more significant fair value change in our warrant liabilities during the three months ended September 30, 2010 resulting from a decrease in our stock price from June 30, 2010. The increase in expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was primarily due to the fair value changes in our warrant liabilities as well as the liability related to common stock warrants to certain of our stockholders which we issued in May 2010, both of which increased significantly in conjunction with the increase in our common stock valuation. 53 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes during the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $0.1 million, compared to a benefit from income taxes of $0.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Our provision for income taxes during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $0.2 million, compared to a benefit from income taxes of $0.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 was due primarily to the launch of the Tesla Roadster in Europe in July 2009 and the ensuing increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions in subsequent periods. Additionally, during the three months ended September 30, 2009, we recognized research and development benefits from our foreign operations resulting in a benefit from income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2010, our principal sources of liquidity were our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $96.6 million which included investments in money market funds. In addition, we had current restricted cash of $88.1M deposited in a dedicated DOE account, per the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility; hence, total cash was $184.7 million. Our primary source of cash historically has been proceeds from the sales of convertible preferred stock, sales of convertible notes, reservation payments from customers for the Tesla Roadster and more recently from sales of the Tesla Roadster, our compensation for electric powertrain development services, sale of powertrain components, the draw downs from the DOE Loan Facility and refundable reservation payments for our Model S. Through June 30, 2010, we had raised an aggregate of $319.2 million from sales of convertible preferred stock and convertible note financings. Initial Public Offering and Toyota Concurrent Private Placement On June 28, 2010, our registration statement on Form S-1 relating to our IPO was declared effective by the SEC. The IPO closed on July 2, 2010, at which time we sold 11,880,600 shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of $188.8 million from this transaction, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. Additionally, we incurred offering costs of $4.4 million related to the IPO. Concurrent with the closing of our IPO, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota in a private placement transaction for aggregate proceeds of $50.0 million. DOE Loan Facility On January 20, 2010, we entered into our DOE Loan Facility for $465.0 million to support the expansion of our manufacturing operations. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million will be made available under the first term loan facility to finance the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components, or the Powertrain facility. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 91.5% of the costs eligible for funding for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan, or the Model S facility. Our obligations for the development of, and the build-out of our manufacturing facility for, the Model S is budgeted to be an aggregate of $33 million or approximately 8.5% of the ongoing budgeted cost, plus any cost overruns for the projects. 54 Table of Contents Our ability to draw down funds under the DOE Loan Facility is conditioned upon several draw conditions. We are currently in compliance with these draw conditions. For the Powertrain facility, the draw conditions include our achievement of progress milestones relating to the successful development of commercial arrangements with third parties for the supply of powertrain components. For the Model S facility, the remaining draw conditions include our achievement of progress milestones relating to the design and development of the Model S and the planned Model S manufacturing facility. Certain advances will be subject to additional conditions to draw-down related to the site on which the applicable project is located. We are currently progressing towards our milestones. Additionally, the DOE Loan Facility provides for the ability to update milestones should a reasonable need arise. Loans may be requested under the facilities until January 22, 2013, and we have committed to complete the projects being financed prior to such date. Through September 30, 2010, we had received loans under the DOE Loan Facility for an aggregate of $56.6 million with interest rates ranging from 1.7% to 3.4%. In October 2010, we received additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility for $6.5 million at interest rates ranging from 1.7% to 2.2%. Interest on advances under the DOE Loan Facility is payable quarterly in arrears. Advances under the Powertrain Facility are repayable in 28 equal quarterly installments commencing on December 15, 2012 (or for advances made after such date, in 26 equal quarterly installments commencing on June 15, 2013). All outstanding amounts under the Powertrain Facility will be due and payable on the maturity date of September 15, 2019. Advances under the Model S Facility are repayable in 40 equal quarterly installments commencing on December 15, 2012 (or for advances made after such date, in 38 equal quarterly installments commencing on June 15, 2013). All outstanding amounts under the Model S Facility will be due and payable on the maturity date of September 15, 2022. Advances under the loan facilities may be voluntarily prepaid at any time. All obligations under the DOE Loan Facility are secured by substantially all of our property. The DOE Loan Facility documents contain customary covenants that include, among others, a requirement that the projects be conducted in accordance with the business plan for such project, compliance with all requirements of the ATVM Program, and limitations on our and our subsidiaries ability to incur indebtedness, incur liens, make investments or loans, enter into mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets, pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock, pay indebtedness, pay management, advisory or similar fees to affiliates, enter into certain affiliate transactions, enter into new lines of business, and enter into certain restrictive agreements, in each case subject to customary exceptions. The DOE Loan Facility documents also contain customary financial covenants. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. The DOE Loan Facility documents also contain customary events of default, subject in some cases to customary cure periods for certain defaults. In addition, events of default include a failure of Elon Musk, our Chief Executive Officer, Product Architect and Chairman, and certain of his affiliates, at any time prior to one year after we complete the project relating to the Model S Facility, to own at least 65% of capital stock held by Mr. Musk and such affiliates as of the date of the DOE Loan Facility. In addition to our obligation to fund a portion of the project costs as described above, we have agreed to set aside 50% of the net proceeds from our IPO and the concurrent Toyota private placement and any subsequent offerings of stock occurring before the completion of the projects, up to an aggregate of $100 million, to fund a separate, dedicated account under our DOE Loan Facility. This dedicated account can be used by us to fund any cost overruns for our powertrain and Model S manufacturing facility projects and will also be used as a mechanism to defer advances under the DOE Loan Facility. This will not affect our ability to draw down the full amount of the DOE loans, but will require us to use the dedicated account to fund certain project costs up front, which costs may then be reimbursed by loans under the DOE Loan Facility once the dedicated account is depleted, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. We will be required to deposit a portion of these reimbursements into the dedicated account, in an amount equal to up to 30% of the remaining project costs for the applicable project and these amounts may similarly be used by us to fund project costs and cost overruns and will similarly be eligible for reimbursement by the draw-down of additional loans under our DOE Loan Facility once used in full, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. Upon the completion of our IPO and concurrent private placement on July 2, 2010, we transferred $100.0 million of the net proceeds from the IPO and the concurrent private placement to fund the dedicated account. During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we transferred $11.9 million from the dedicated account to our operating cash accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. As of September 30, 2010, $88.1 million remained in the dedicated account. As we expect to transfer the remainder of this balance within one year, we have recorded such cash as current restricted cash. In October 2010, we transferred an additional $6.5 million from the dedicated account. 55 Table of Contents For additional information related to our DOE Loan Facility, please see Note 7 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect that the proceeds from our IPO, the concurrent Toyota private placement and the loans under the DOE Loan Facility, together with our anticipated cash from operating activities and cash on hand and the Panasonic private placement that was completed in November 2010, will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next 24 months. This capital will be necessary to fund our ongoing operations, continue research, development and design efforts, establish sales and service branches, improve infrastructure such as expanded battery assembly facilities, and introduce new vehicles such as the Model S. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles prior to the launch of the Model S may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit from government or financial institutions. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Leasing Activities In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. When compared to our sales of vehicles, our leasing activities will spread the cash inflows that we would otherwise receive upon the sale of a vehicle, over the lease term and final disposition of the leased vehicle. As such, our cash and working capital requirements will be directly impacted and if leasing volume increases significantly, the impact may be material. However, after taking into consideration our current and planned sources of operating cash, our ability to monitor and prospectively adjust our leasing activity, as well as our intent to collect nonrefundable deposits for leased vehicles that are manufactured to specification, we do not believe that our planned leasing operations will materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments and obligations as they become due. As we will also be exposed to credit risk related to the timely collection of lease payments from our customers, we intend to utilize our credit approval and ongoing review processes in order to minimize any credit losses that could occur and which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to require deposits from customers electing a lease option for vehicles built to a customers specifications on the same timeframe and under the same circumstances as from customers purchasing our vehicles outright. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 21% and 13%, respectively, of the vehicles delivered during the period were under operating leases. As of September 30, 2010, we had deferred revenues of $0.9 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. Through September 30, 2010, our leasing activity has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. 56 Table of Contents Reservations Payments A source of our cash flows from operations has been through our receipt of reservation payments from our customers. Reservation payments consist of reservation and membership payments that allow potential customers to hold a reservation for the future purchase of a Tesla Roadster or Model S. For our 2010 model year Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial $9,900, 11,500 or 10,000 deposit, depending on the location of the customer. For the Model S, we require an initial reservation payment of at least $5,000. For vehicles purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. Prior to the three months ended June 30, 2010, our reservation policy was to accept reservation payments from all customers who wished to purchase a Tesla Roadster and require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle at the time the customer selected their vehicle specifications. During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we changed our policy to require nonrefundable deposits for Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification at the time a customer enters into a purchase agreement. However, we also occasionally accept reservation payments for the Tesla Roadster if a customer is interested in purchasing a vehicle but not yet prepared to select the vehicle specifications. For customers who have placed a reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. The full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle is required only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. We do not believe that these changes will materially impact our liquidity or capital resources. Reservation payments for a vehicle are recorded as a current liability when received. No later than upon the delivery of a vehicle, the reservation payments collected on a customers account are applied against the total purchase price of the vehicle. Reservation payments are expected to fluctuate as the number of reservation holders on the Tesla Roadster reservation list decreases, while the number of reservation holders on the Model S reservation list increases. Since inception through the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we had accumulated net operating losses of $363.6 million. Summary of Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 2009 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (93,533 ) $ (51,818 ) Net cash used in investing activities (171,747 ) (8,045 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 292,216 157,133 Cash Flows from Operating Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from operations as we expand our business and build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. 57 Table of Contents Net cash used in operating activities was $93.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $103.0 million, which included non-cash charges of $13.3 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $7.7 million related to depreciation and amortization and $5.6 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liabilities. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $114.6 million of operating expenses, $61.0 million of cost of revenues, a $16.9 million increase in inventory, a $5.9 million increase in operating lease vehicles, a $3.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets and a $2.1 million decrease in our accrued liabilities, partially offset by an $8.0 million increase in accounts payable. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales while the net increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business as well as our increased manufacturing activities. Operating lease vehicles increased with the introduction of our leasing program in 2010. Of the cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, approximately $33 million as of September 30, 2010, was eligible for reimbursement from the DOE Loan Facility as it related to the development of the Model S and powertrain research and development activities and had yet to be reimbursed under the DOE Loan Facility. Significant operating cash inflows for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were derived primarily from sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components as well as from development services activity. Significant operating cash inflows were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $67.9 million, $12.6 million of development services revenue, a $3.4 million increase in deferred revenues, partially offset by a $4.6 million increase in accounts receivable. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011, and in May 2010, we executed a final agreement under which Daimler would make additional payments to us for the successful completion of certain development milestones and the delivery of prototype samples. The increase in deferred revenues was primarily driven by payments that we had received from Daimler in relation to this development arrangement for which revenue recognition has yet to be achieved. Deferred revenues also increased from our vehicle leasing activities as we are recognizing the lease down-payments over the term of the operating leases. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to powertrain component sales and development services during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 in relation to Daimlers Smart fortwo and A-Class programs. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we received $7.6 million of net new reservation payments for the Model S. Net cash used in operating activities was $51.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $31.5 million, which included non-cash charges of $5.0 million related to depreciation and amortization and $2.7 million related to interest on convertible notes, as well as a non-cash gain of $1.5 million from the extinguishment of convertible notes and warrants. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $85.6 million of cost of revenues, $36.7 million of operating expenses, a $4.0 million increase in inventory and a $2.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $3.2 million increase in accounts payable. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements and the increases in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and accounts payable were primarily due to the growth in our business. Significant operating cash inflows for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 were derived primarily from sales of the Tesla Roadster as well as development compensation related to the Daimler Smart fortwo development arrangement. Cash inflows related to automotive sales activity were comprised of $93.4 million in revenues and a $1.9 million decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $23.2 million decrease in reservation payments and a $6.0 million decrease in deferred development compensation. Reservation payments decreased as a result of our efforts to accelerate deliveries to customers on our waitlist and the application of the related reservation payments to the respective customers final purchase cost. Cash inflows from the Daimler Smart fortwo development arrangement were $11.2 million comprised primarily of $17.2 million development compensation partially offset by $6.0 million decrease in deferred development compensation. The decrease in deferred development compensation was the result of the amortization of deferred development compensation that we had received from Daimler during the year ended December 31, 2008. 58 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from investing activities as we expand our business, build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally and develop our Model S manufacturing capabilities. Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. Net cash used in investing activities was $171.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 primarily related to capital purchases of $81.8 million and an increase in restricted cash of $90.0 million. The increase in capital purchases was driven primarily by non-refundable payments of $8.0 million and a further $52.1 million of escrow payments made in relation to our purchase of an existing automobile production facility located in Fremont, California from NUMMI, and certain manufacturing assets located thereon to be used for our planned Model S manufacturing, as well as expenditures related to our transition to and build out of our powertrain manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, California, and purchases of manufacturing equipment. Our purchase transactions with NUMMI were completed in October 2010. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to $100.0 million of net proceeds from our IPO and concurrent private placement that we transferred to a dedicated account as required by our DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $11.9 million that was transferred out of the dedicated account during the three months ended September 30, 2010 in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. To a lesser extent, the increase in restricted cash was also related to certain refundable reservation payments segregated in accordance with state consumer protection regulations in Washington State. Net cash used in investing activities was $8.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009 primarily related to purchases of capital equipment of $5.7 million and an increase in restricted cash of $2.4 million. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to a contractual deposit placed with a vendor as part of the vendors normal credit policies. Net cash used in investing activities is expected to increase substantially as we build out and tool our Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, and our powertrain manufacturing facility in Palo Alto, California. Cash Flows from Financing Activities We have financed our operations primarily with proceeds from issuances of convertible preferred stock and convertible notes, which provided us with aggregate net proceeds of $296.8 million on a cumulative basis through December 31, 2009, from loans under the DOE Loan Facility beginning in 2010, and more recently, from the net proceeds from our IPO and concurrent private placement. Cash provided by financing activities was $292.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 comprised primarily of $188.8 million in proceeds from our IPO, $50.0 million in proceeds from the Toyota private placement, $56.6 million we received from our loans under the DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $3.7 million of issuance costs we incurred in relation to our DOE Loan Facility and our IPO. Cash provided by financing activities was $157.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2009 comprised primarily of $82.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Series E convertible preferred stock, $49.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Series E convertible preferred stock and $25.5 million in proceeds received from the issuance of convertible notes and warrants. 59 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, as of September 30, 2010 certain significant cash obligations that will affect our future liquidity (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter Operating lease obligations $ 38,319 $ 1,142 $ 5,522 $ 5,266 $ 5,265 $ 5,106 $ 16,018 Capital lease obligations 910 87 318 286 219 Purchase obligations (1) 19,700 3,600 16,100 $ 58,929 $ 4,829 $ 21,940 $ 5,552 $ 5,484 $ 5,106 $ 16,018 (1) Obligations include significant agreements or purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and where the significant terms are specified. Where a minimum purchase obligation is stipulated, as in the case of our supply agreement with Lotus Cars Limited, the amounts included in the table reflect the minimum purchase amounts based on the September 30, 2010 exchange rate for the British pound. Purchase obligations that are cancelable without significant penalty, are not included in the table. As of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we held reservation payments of $27.9 million and $26.0 million from potential customers, respectively, which are not reflected in the table above. As of September 30, 2010, we held reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $2.4 million and reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $25.5 million. As of December 31, 2009, we held reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $8.2 million and reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $17.9 million. In order to convert the reservation payments into revenue, we will need to sell vehicles to these customers. All reservation payments for the Model S are fully refundable until such time that a customer enters into a purchase agreement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.