ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview and Quarter Highlights We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. The Roadsters proprietary electric vehicle powertrain system is the foundation of our powertrain technology and, with design enhancements, forms the basis for our Model S sedan, our Model X crossover and other future vehicles. We are targeting our second vehicle, Model S, for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and are manufacturing Model S in significantly higher volumes than those for the Tesla Roadster. We commenced deliveries of Model S in June 2012 and increased production to an annualized rate of 20,000 per year by the end of 2012. In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover, a vehicle based on the Model S platform. We plan to start Model X production in late 2014. We sell our vehicles through our own sales and service network. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we recognized total revenues of $561.8 million, an increase of $531.6 million over total revenues of $30.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Automotive sales revenue of $555.2 million increased $536.0 million from the three months ended March 31, 2012, primarily driven by Model S deliveries in North America which commenced in June 2012, regulatory credit sales and powertrain component sales to Toyota for the Toyota RAV4 EV. Development services revenue decreased to $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 from $10.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012, due primarily to the completion of our development activities for the Toyota RAV4 EV program during the first quarter of 2012, partially offset by the start of our development work on a full electric powertrain under the Mercedes-Benz B-Class EV program. During the first quarter of 2013, we recognized development services revenue for the achievement of a development milestone and from the delivery of prototype samples to Daimler under this program. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was 17.1%, an increase from 8% for the three months ended December 31, 2012, reflecting Model S production of over 5,000 vehicles during the quarter, manufacturing efficiencies, part cost reductions and sales of regulatory credits. We delivered approximately 4,900 Model S vehicles during the three months ended March 31, 2013. Research and development (R&D) expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $54.9 million, a decrease from $68.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. R&D expenses for the first quarter of 2012 included expenses related to our Model S pre-production activities, including manufacturing preparedness, process validation, prototype builds and extensive testing at both the vehicle and component levels; development of the Tesla Factory and development and testing of Model S. As the Model S production in the Tesla Factory became fully operational in the second half of 2012, Model S related manufacturing costs, including direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead and amortized tooling, and logistics, were no longer recorded as R&D expenses but instead were fully reflected in cost of automotive sales. R&D expenses for the first quarter of 2013 include continuing activities to homologate Model S for the rest of the world and ongoing research and development activities related to Model S, supercharging and other programs. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we continued to expand our company-owned network of stores, service centers and Superchargers, primarily in the United States. With the higher 20 Table of Contents expenses associated with the expansion of our store network and service infrastructure, selling, general and administrative expenses were $47.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to $30.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. We ended the quarter with $231.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, and current restricted cash. Through cash received from our revenue generating activities as well as careful working capital management, such as the reduction of inventories on-hand, we generated positive free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) of $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we made our second quarterly payment under our Department of Energy (DOE) Loan Facility, as scheduled. We also set aside $14.6 million for our third quarterly DOE payment, which is due in June 2013 and is classified in current restricted cash. In March 2013, we entered into a fourth amendment of our DOE Loan Facility. This amendment, among other things, modified certain future financial covenants, accelerated the maturity date of the DOE Loan Facility to December 15, 2017, created an obligation to repay approximately 1.0% of the outstanding principal under the DOE Loan Facility on or before June 15, 2013, and created additional contingent obligations based on excess cash flows that may result in accelerated repayment of the DOE Loan Facility starting in 2015. Since we agreed to repay all outstanding principal and interest payments under the DOE Loan Facility by December 15, 2017, the DOE warrant is no longer expected to vest. As a result, we eliminated our common stock warrant liability and reflected $10.7 million of other income in other income, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2013. For more information, see Note 6 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect that our current sources of liquidity together with our current projections of cash flow from operating activities, will continue to provide us with adequate liquidity based on our current plans. However, if market conditions are favorable, we may evaluate alternatives to opportunistically pursue liquidity options. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks In 2012, we completed the development of Model S, established our manufacturing capabilities at the Tesla Factory, launched Model S and ramped up our production rate. By the end of 2012, we had successfully increased production volume to over 400 vehicles per week and we have continued to consistently produce at or above this rate during the first quarter of 2013. We expect that this production level will allow us to achieve our goal of 21,000 Model S deliveries worldwide in 2013 and thereby significantly increase automotive sales, as compared to 2012. In our efforts to make Model S available to a wider range of customers, we commenced delivery of cars equipped with the lower priced, 60 kWh battery pack during the first quarter of 2013. At the same time, due to lower than expected demand for Model S with the 40 kWh battery pack, we announced that the 40 kWh battery pack would not be produced. Since some customers had already configured their vehicles with the 40 kWh battery pack, we offered to deliver a vehicle with a 60 kWh battery pack that would be limited to 40 kWh by on-board firmware. We have delivered over 7,500 Model S vehicles solely to customers in North America. We plan to start European deliveries of the Model S this summer and Asian deliveries later in 2013. Although we have made enhancements to our delivery process in North America and will continue to do so, we have not delivered Model S vehicles outside of North America and thus may face difficulties meeting our 21 Table of Contents delivery plans in both Europe and Asia. If we are unable to ramp up deliveries in Europe and Asia and sustain a high level of weekly Model S deliveries throughout the year, our revenues and operating results could be significantly adversely affected and it would be unlikely that we would achieve our goal of 21,000 Model S deliveries worldwide in 2013. In April 2013, we announced a financing plan whereby customers could conveniently obtain financing through one of our partner banks and also receive a residual value guarantee from Tesla. We believe that through this arrangement, customers will be able to realize some of the same benefits as those from a traditional lease. As a result of the residual value guarantee, we expect to apply lease accounting to these sales which would defer the recognition of the associated revenues over time instead of full recognition at delivery. Although lease accounting will not impact our cash flows and liquidity, a significant uptake under this program could adversely impact our 2013 revenues and operating results. Furthermore, while we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, we are exposed to the risk that the vehicles residual value may be lower than our estimates and the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates. In addition to sales of Model S, we will continue to recognize automotive sales from our supply of powertrain systems to Toyota for the Toyota RAV4 EV. However, Toyota is not obligated to continue to purchase powertrain systems from us over an extended period of time. In 2012, we began work on a full electric powertrain under the Mercedes-Benz B-Class EV program. Under this program, we will continue to provide development services and deliver prototype samples in 2013. Similar to our previous development services agreements, due to timing differences that may arise between the recognition of milestone revenues and the underlying costs of development services, the gross margin from our development services activities may vary from period to period. Additionally, we continue to negotiate an agreement to supply Daimler with production parts for the Mercedes-Benz B-Class EV. During the first quarter of 2013, production efficiency on a per vehicle basis improved substantially as we continued to stabilize and improve our production processes. We also benefited from part cost reductions and labor and overhead costs being allocated over higher production volume. We expect these trends to continue as we execute on our roadmap of achieving component cost reductions as well as realizing manufacturing and logistics efficiencies. As a result, we expect to achieve gross margin in the high teens in the second quarter of 2013. This expectation includes the impact from lower zero emission vehicle (ZEV) credit sales, a lower average selling price due to a higher mix of 60 kWh Model S vehicles, as well as limited sales of the now discontinued 40 kWh vehicles, which will have a range-limited 60 kWh battery pack. We expect our gross margin to continue to rise to our target of 25% in the fourth quarter of 2013, which assumes no ZEV credit revenue. We may not be able to achieve the planned cost reductions from our various cost savings and process improvement initiatives, which would negatively affect our ability to reach our gross margin goals. During the first quarter of 2013, we recognized $67.9 million in ZEV sales, which contributed to our gross margin. ZEV credit revenue should decline in future quarters relative to our automotive sales as we grow our sales outside the United States and earn fewer credits on the 60 kWh Model S battery variant for those sales that occur in the United States. Other regulatory credit sales recognized during the first quarter of 2013 were $17.1 million. While we will pursue opportunities to monetize ZEV credits we earn from the sales of our vehicles, we do not plan to rely on these sales to be a significant contributor to gross margin, and our business model is not predicated on such ZEV credits. 22 Table of Contents In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. We currently plan to start production of Model X in late 2014. Our ability to develop and introduce the Model X in this timeframe is based partially on our expectations of leveraging the Model S platform. If there is a lower level of commonality between Model S and Model X than anticipated, our future development and tooling costs may exceed expectations which could delay our Model X production ramp. During the first quarter of 2013, we continued to expand our stores and significantly expand our service infrastructure. As of the end of the quarter, we had 34 stores and galleries around the world, and plan to open about 15 more stores and galleries in 2013, with about half the openings in Europe and Asia to support our expansion into these regions during the second half of 2013. To keep pace with the growing fleet of customer cars, we remain on plan to add approximately 30 service locations around the world in 2013 to our current network of 41 service centers. During the first quarter, significant progress in planning was made to accelerate the deployment of our Supercharger network in the United States. Going forward, we plan to increase the number of Supercharger installations. We may experience difficulties in finding suitable sites, negotiating leases or obtaining required permits for such locations, and our planned expansion of such Superchargers could be delayed or stalled. We plan to transition away from collecting reservations in markets where production has been fully implemented. In this vein, we recently began modifying our sales processes to simplify and enhance the customer pre-delivery experience. As Model S production and deliveries became more reliable during the first quarter, we realized that the reservation process was cumbersome and therefore recently eliminated it for Model S in North America. Customers in North America now initiate their purchase by ordering their customized Model S online in a simple three step process, rather than placing a generic reservation in queue. In markets where full production and delivery rates for Model S have not yet been reached, and for Model X, the reservation process will continue. As a result of this transition away from reservations, we have renamed the reservation payments caption on our condensed consolidated financial statements to customer deposits. We are currently receiving orders at a rate greater than 20,000 cars per year worldwide. Notably, the orders we are receiving are mainly for deliveries in the United States and have only recently begun to accept orders from Europe. We expect that the number of international orders will increase when we enter the European and Asian markets. Despite changes that we have made de-emphasizing reservations, new monthly reservations received in the first quarter of 2013 were higher than our recent nine-month historical monthly average. Cancellations remained elevated as the price increase started to impact older reservation holders and as some of the opportunistic reservations we received at the end of 2012 reversed during the first quarter of 2013. The new streamlined ordering process has resulted in lower cancellations. In 2013, we plan to spend approximately $200 million in capital expenditures as we conclude the majority of our investment in the Tesla Factory and Model S tooling. This reduction will be partially offset by expenditures related to expanding our service, store and Supercharger network as well as new product development. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. 23 Table of Contents For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Revenues Automotive sales $ 555,203 $ 19,245 Development services 6,589 10,922 Total revenues 561,792 30,167 Cost of revenues Automotive sales 461,818 13,932 Development services 3,654 6,025 Total cost of revenues 465,472 19,957 Gross profit 96,320 10,210 Operating expenses Research and development 54,859 68,391 Selling, general and administrative 47,045 30,582 Total operating expenses 101,904 98,973 Loss from operations (5,584 ) (88,763 ) Interest income 10 90 Interest expense (118 ) (65 ) Other income (expense), net 17,091 (1,076 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 11,399 (89,814 ) Provision for income taxes 151 59 Net income (loss) $ 11,248 $ (89,873 ) Revenues Automotive Sales Automotive sales, which include vehicle, options and related sales, and powertrain component and related sales, consisted of the following for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Vehicle, options and related sales $ 540,783 $ 17,888 Powertrain component and related sales 14,420 1,357 Total automotive sales $ 555,203 $ 19,245 24 Table of Contents Automotive sales during the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $555.2 million, an increase from $19.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Vehicle, options and related sales represent sales of Model S and the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Powertrain component and related sales represent the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems, such as battery packs and drive units, to other manufacturers. Vehicle, options and related sales during the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $540.8 million, an increase from $17.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase in vehicle, options and related sales was primarily driven by Model S deliveries which commenced in June 2012, higher sales of regulatory credits including $67.9 million in zero emission credit sales, as well as powertrain component sales to Toyota for the Toyota RAV4 EV, partially offset by a decrease in sales of the Tesla Roadster as we completed production of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012 and limited inventory remains for sale, primarily in Europe and Asia. Powertrain component and related sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $14.4 million, an increase from $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we delivered only a limited number of powertrain components to Daimler as the production for both the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs was substantially completed as of December 31, 2011 and the sales of powertrain systems to Toyota under the RAV4 EV supply and services agreement commenced in March 2012. Powertrain component and related sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were related to powertrain component sales to Toyota for the Toyota RAV4 EV. Development Services Development services represent arrangements where we develop electric vehicle powertrain components and systems for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs, drive units and chargers to meet customers specifications. Development services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $6.6 million, a decrease from $10.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we entered into a development agreement with Daimler to assist with the development of a full electric powertrain for a Mercedes-Benz B-Class EV vehicle. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we recognized development services revenue of $6.5 million for the achievement of a milestone and from the delivery of prototype samples to Daimler under this program. In October 2010, we entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which would be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we completed our remaining milestones and delivered samples under the Phase 1 agreement and recognized $10.7 million of revenue. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues includes cost of automotive sales and costs related to our development services. Cost of automotive sales during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $461.8 million, an increase from $13.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Cost of automotive sales includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, 25 Table of Contents royalty fees, shipping and logistic costs and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. The increase in cost of automotive sales was driven primarily by the commencement of Model S deliveries in June 2012 as well as electric powertrain component and systems sales to Toyota as we began to deliver under the Toyota RAV4 EV supply and services agreement, partially offset by a decrease in the number of Roadster deliveries and battery packs and chargers delivered to Daimler. Cost of development services during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $3.7 million, a decrease from $6.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. The decrease in cost of development services was driven primarily by our development activities for the Toyota RAV4 EV program which we substantially completed during the three months ended March 31, 2012, partially offset by costs associated with development activities related to the Mercedes-Benz B-Class EV program which we commenced in 2012. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $96.3 million, an increase from $10.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. This increase was driven primarily by the commencement of Model S deliveries and the sales of regulatory credits, which carry no associated cost of revenues, partially offset by lower sales of the Tesla Roadster. We expect our development services gross profit and gross margin may fluctuate in future periods as the timing of revenue recognition may not coincide with the period in which the corresponding cost of revenues is recognized. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Overhead costs related to the Tesla Factory prior to the start of production of Model S are also included in research and development expenses. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $54.9 million, a decrease from $68.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The $13.5 million decrease in research and development expenses consisted primarily of a $12.0 million decrease in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S release candidate builds and crash testing in 2012, a $3.7 million decrease in costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities, a $1.9 million decrease in office, information technology and facilities-related costs and a $1.3 million decrease in shipping charges for prototype materials. The decrease was partially offset by a $3.5 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount and a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards due to additional headcount and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants. 26 Table of Contents We anticipate that our research and development expenses in the remainder of 2013 will increase slightly as compared to the first quarter of 2013. In addition, future equity awards may result in an increase in research and development expenses. 27 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2013 were $47.0 million, an increase from $30.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The $16.4 million increase in our selling, general and administrative consisted primarily of a $7.2 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $5.7 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, a $2.6 million increase in professional and outside services costs and a $0.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards due to additional headcount and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase moderately for the remainder of 2013 as we continue to increase our vehicle selling and servicing capabilities. In addition, future equity awards may result in an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. Interest Expense Our interest expense is incurred primarily from our loans under the DOE Loan Facility to fund our Model S and powertrain activities, and as of August 2012, we had fully drawn down on the DOE Loan Facility. We have historically capitalized this interest to construction in progress. During the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, we capitalized $2.1 million and $1.6 million of interest expense to construction in progress, respectively. As our construction activities decrease over time, we expect to capitalize less interest expense in future periods. Consequently, we expect interest expense to increase during the remainder of 2013. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our DOE common stock warrant liability and foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. The DOE warrant is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other expense, net, until its expiration or vesting. Other income, net, during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $17.1 million, an increase in income compared to other expense, net, of $1.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase in other income, net, was primarily due to the reduction in fair value of our DOE common stock warrant liability of $10.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013. In March 2013, we entered into a fourth amendment to the DOE Loan Facility which, among other things, accelerated the maturity date of our DOE loans to December 15, 2017; therefore, the DOE warrant is no longer expected to vest. The increase in other income was also attributable to a favorable foreign currency exchange impact from our foreign currency-denominated liabilities, especially related to the Japanese yen. 28 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $0.2 million compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was due primarily to the increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception and through March 31, 2013, we had accumulated net operating losses of $1.05 billion and have used $660.6 million of cash in operations. As of March 31, 2013, we had $231.1 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $214.4 million which included investments in money market funds, and cash of $14.8 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility to pre-fund our quarterly DOE loan repayment of principal and interest that will come due on June 15, 2013. Other sources of cash include cash from the sales of Model S, customer deposits for Model S and Model X, sales of regulatory credits, cash from the provision of development services and sales of powertrain components and systems. We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, cash held in our dedicated DOE account, together with our current projections of cash flow from operating activities, will continue to provide us with adequate liquidity based on our current plans. These capital sources will enable us to fund our ongoing operations, continue research and development projects, including those for our planned Model X crossover, establish and expand our stores, service centers and Supercharger network and to make the investments in tooling and manufacturing capital required to introduce Model X. If market conditions are favorable, we may evaluate alternatives to opportunistically pursue liquidity options. Also, should prevailing economic conditions and/or financial, business or other factors adversely affect the estimates of our future cash requirements, we could be required to fund our cash requirements through additional or alternative sources of financing. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. DOE Loan Facility On January 20, 2010, we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB), and the DOE, pursuant to the ATVM Incentive Program. We refer to the loan facility with the DOE, as amended, as the DOE Loan Facility. The DOE Loan Facility requires, among other things, that we comply with certain financial covenants and fund a debt service account. The financial covenants include a minimum current ratio, which is a ratio of our current assets to our current liabilities (taking into account certain categorical exclusions); a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, which is a ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA to consolidated fixed charges; and a maximum ratio of total liabilities to stockholder equity. The DOE Loan Facility was amended in June 2011 to expand our cash investment options, in February 2012 to modify the timing of certain future financial covenants and funding of the debt service reserve account, in June and December 2012 to allow us to effect certain initiatives in our business plan. In September 2012, we entered into an amendment with the DOE that: (i) removed our obligation to comply with the current ratio financial covenant for the third quarter of 2012; (ii) amended our funding requirements for the dedicated debt service reserve account to (a) postpone until February 15, 2013, $14.6 million of the $28.8 million pre-funding payment originally due on October 15, 2012; and (b) make additional pre-funding payments, beginning June 15, 2013, of between $14.2 million to $14.5 million each quarter to pre-fund the quarterly principal and interest payments due from September 15, 2013 through December 15, 2014; and (iii) added a covenant requiring us to work in good faith with the DOE to develop an early repayment plan for our outstanding DOE Loan Facility on terms satisfactory to the DOE. We entered into another amendment with the DOE in March 2013 that, among other things: (i) modified certain future financial covenants; (ii) accelerated the maturity date of the DOE 29 Table of Contents Loan Facility to December 15, 2017; (iii) created an obligation to repay approximately 1.0% of the outstanding principal under the DOE Loan Facility on or before June 15, 2013; and (iv) created additional contingent obligations based on excess cash flow that may result in accelerated repayment of the DOE Loan Facility starting in 2015. The original amortization schedule for the DOE Loan Facility is not affected by this recent amendment, and so the debt service payments remain the same until the new maturity date when all outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility are to be repaid. In February 2013, we pre-funded $14.6 million for all principal and interest that will come due on June 15, 2013 into a dedicated debt service reserve account in accordance with the pre-funding requirement under the DOE Loan Facility. For more information on the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 6 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 1, Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 64,079 $ (63,300 ) Net cash used in investing activities (55,236 ) (66,227 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,684 92,831 We have restated the unaudited statement of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Amounts related to purchases of property and equipment during the period that were not paid as of March 31, 2012 were erroneously included as cash outflows from investing activities in our previously issued financial statements. This correction resulted in a $13.2 million decrease in purchases of property and equipment included in cash flows used in investing activities and a corresponding increase in the change in accounts payable resulting in an increase in cash flows used in operating activities. There was no impact on our previously reported total cash and cash equivalents, condensed consolidated balance sheet or condensed consolidated statement of operations. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $64.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 net of adjustments for non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization of $17.9 million, non-cash charges of $14.9 million related to stock-based compensation expense, and inventory write-downs of $1.5 million, partially offset by other income associated with the reduction in fair value of the DOE common stock warrant liability of $10.7 million. Significant operating cash inflows were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $555.2 million, an $18.2 million decrease in inventory and operating lease vehicles, $6.6 million of development services revenue and a $4.1 million net increase in deferred revenue associated with various vehicle service plans introduced in March 2013. Significant operating cash outflows for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were primarily related to $465.5 million of cost of revenues, $101.9 million of operating expenses, a $26.6 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities primarily due to the timing of vendor payments, an $8.1 million net decrease in customer deposits as a result of the sales of Model S and a $2.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. 30 Table of Contents Net cash used in operating activities was $63.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $89.9 million, which included non-cash charges of $10.7 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $4.2 million related to depreciation and amortization and $2.6 million related to inventory write-downs and adverse purchase commitments. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $99.0 million of operating expenses, $20.0 million of cost of revenues and a $5.6 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles, partially offset by a $6.3 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and a $2.5 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Inventory increased to meet our planned production requirements for the Model S and powertrain component sales while the net increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business and the timing of vendor payments. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets was primarily driven by various tax refunds received during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Significant operating cash inflows for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $19.2 million, $10.9 million of development services revenue and a $21.6 million net increase in customer deposits, partially offset by a $4.1 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to receivables from Toyota for the achievement of our final milestones under the Toyota RAV4 EV Phase 1 contract services agreement. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. We currently expect our capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $200 million, as we have concluded the majority of our investment in the Tesla Factory and Model S tooling. This reduction will be partially offset by expenditures related to the expansion of our service, store and Supercharger network, investing in new capital equipment and tooling to reduce variable costs and new product development. Net cash used in investing activities was $55.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily related to $57.7 million in purchases of capital equipment and tooling, partially offset by a $2.6 million net decrease in restricted cash. Net cash used in investing activities was $66.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily related to $54.8 million in purchases of capital equipment and a net transfer of $11.0 million into our dedicated DOE accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. The increase in capital purchases was primarily due to significant continuing development and construction activities at the Tesla Factory as well as purchases of manufacturing equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 and was comprised primarily of $17.9 million received from the exercise of common stock options by employees and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by $12.7 million related to our planned quarterly repayment of loan principal under the DOE Loan Facility, and $1.5 million related to principal payments on our capital leases. 31 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities was $92.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012 and was comprised primarily of $84.3 million received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility and $9.0 million received from the exercise of common stock options by employees and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.