MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview and Quarter Highlights We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, advanced electric vehicle powertrain components and energy storage applications. We are currently producing and selling our second vehicle, the Model S sedan. Model S is a four door, five-passenger premium sedan that offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. Model S inherited many of the electric powertrain innovations we introduced with our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster. We commenced deliveries of Model S in June 2012 and have delivered over 66,000 vehicles through March 31, 2015. In 2014 we announced the availability of our All-Wheel Drive Model S and began delivery, starting with a performance-optimized version, in December 2014. Since then we have announced a 70 kWh All-Wheel Drive Model S and discontinued the 60 kWh Model S. We are continuing to develop our Model X crossover vehicle and intend to commence customer deliveries late in the third quarter of 2015. After the Model X, our goal is to introduce Model 3, a lower priced sedan designed for the mass market, in 2017. Our primary source of revenue is from the sale of our vehicles. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we recognized total revenues of $939.9 million, an increase of $319.3 million over total revenues of $620.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, primarily driven by growth of Model S deliveries worldwide. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 27.7%, an increase from 25.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Higher vehicle production volume, manufacturing efficiencies and vehicle cost reductions, combined with favorable product mix, contributed to higher gross margin in the first quarter of 2015, despite the strengthening of the U.S. dollar which affected our revenue from sales in foreign markets. Research and development (R&D) expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $167.2 million, an increase from $81.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Higher R&D expenses in the first quarter of 2015 reflected our growing engineering work on Model X as well as efforts to develop the right hand drive All-Wheel Drive Model S. We continue to increase our sales and service footprint worldwide and expand our Supercharging network. With the continued global expansion of our customer support and Supercharger infrastructure, selling, general and administrative expenses were $195.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to $117.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Orders, Production and Deliveries During the last several months, we have broadened the appeal of Model S by introducing all-wheel drive vehicles and Model S 70D. In addition, we remain on track to introduce Model X late in the third quarter of this year. We expect that demand for our vehicles will continue to increase worldwide as more people drive and become aware of our vehicles, as we grow our customer support infrastructure, and as we continue to develop our products. In order to meet this anticipated demand for both Model S and Model X, we are executing a plan to increase our combined Model S and Model X production capacity to over 2,000 units per week by the end of 2015. In August 2014, we began our production ramp by transitioning to our new final assembly line and upgrading our body center. We are continuing to make further investment in production capacity during 2015, including building a new paint shop, a new body shop for Model X, and additional stamping capacity. We expect our annual production will increase by over 50% each year for the next several years. In addition, scaling our deliveries entails that we increase the number of customer-configured cars in-transit. We therefore expect production to increase faster than deliveries, resulting in higher finished goods inventory. Our recent production capacity expansion contributed to average weekly production in excess of 1,000 vehicles per week during the first quarter of 2015, considering the planned shutdown of production during the first week of the year. During 2015, we plan to achieve significant efficiencies in Model S production and begin production of Model X with the intent of achieving a significantly faster initial production ramp than we achieved with Model S. The introduction of Model X into our existing production process will add significant complexity and may affect our ability to initially meet future efficiency and delivery targets. 19 In addition to expanding our production, we expect to continue to lower the cost of manufacturing our vehicles and improve our gross margin. Significant cost improvements for Model S were achieved in 2014, including material cost reductions from both engineering and commercial actions, as well as manufacturing efficiencies. We expect that this trend will continue as we execute on our roadmap. We expect that such improvements will allow us to significantly improve our gross margin excluding the impact of foreign currency movements. During our product introductions in 2014, we incurred manufacturing inefficiencies which negatively impacted our gross margin. When we introduce Model X, we expect that both production inefficiencies and supply chain inefficiencies typical of a new product introduction will suppress Model X margins for at least a few quarters after its introduction. If we are not able to achieve the planned cost reductions from our various cost savings and process improvement initiatives or introduce Model X efficiently, our ability to reach our gross margin goals would be negatively affected. We expect to deliver approximately 55,000 Model S and X vehicles worldwide in 2015, which is about 74% more deliveries than we achieved in 2014. To support this growth, we plan to continue to expand our Supercharger, stores and service infrastructure worldwide as well as to provide better service in areas with a high concentration of Model S customers. As we now offer Model S in many countries within North America, Europe and Asia, our expansion will primarily occur in geographic areas in which we already have a presence. Based on our current projections, we expect our long-term sales outside of North America will be almost half of our worldwide automotive revenue. Despite initial challenges in China, we plan to continue to invest in our infrastructure in China as we believe that the country could be one of our largest markets within a few years. However, as compared to markets in the United States and Europe, we have relatively limited experience in China and other Asian markets; thus, we may face continuing difficulties meeting our future expansion plans in Asia. Trends in Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses Our capital expenditures and operating expenses have significantly increased in the past year. As we continue to invest in the long term growth of Tesla, capital spending and operating expenses will continue to increase, but at a more moderate pace than in 2014. During 2015, capital expenditures are expected to be about $1.5 billion as we expand production capacity, complete Model X development, and continue to build the Gigafactory and expand our stores and service centers, as well as continue other product development programs, including Model 3. Our operating expenses will continue to grow in 2015, but at less than half the pace of growth in 2014. Our R&D expenses in particular will continue to increase as we complete the development, validation, and testing of Model X and accelerate design and engineering work on Model 3. Growth of sales, general and administrative expenses will be more modest as we will be particularly focused on increasing operational efficiency while we continue to expand our customer and corporate infrastructure. Over time, we expect overall operating expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue. As of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the net book value of our Supercharger network was $128.5 million and $107.8 million and currently includes 425 locations globally. We plan to continue investing in our Supercharger network for the foreseeable future, including in North America, Europe and Asia and expect such spending to be approximately 5% of total capital spending over the next 12 months. During 2015, this investment will grow our Supercharger network by about 50%. We allocate Supercharger related expenses to cost of automotive revenues and selling, general, and administrative expenses. These costs were immaterial for all periods presented. Customer Financing Options We offer loans and leases in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offer a resale value guarantee in connection with certain loans offered by financial institutions and provide this guarantee to approximately 11,760 Model S customers. We expanded this program to selected European and Asian markets this quarter. Model S deliveries with the resale value guarantee currently do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. However, this program requires the deferral of revenues and costs into future periods under lease accounting. Although lease accounting will continue to impact our revenues and operating results in the period cars are sold under this and similar programs, as time passes, the amortization of existing deferred revenues and costs will begin to partially offset this adverse impact. Furthermore, while we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, we are exposed to the risk that a vehicles resale value may be lower than our estimates and the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates which could adversely impact our cash flows. 20 We currently offer leases in the U.S. directly from Tesla Finance, our captive financing entity, as well as through a banking partner. Leasing through Tesla Finance is now available in 37 states, the District of Columbia and in 4 provinces of Canada. Through March 31, 2015, we have leased approximately 1,740 vehicles through Tesla Finance and approximately 900 vehicles through our banking partner. Leasing through both Tesla Finance and our banking partner exposes us to residual value risk and will adversely impact our near-term revenues and operating results by requiring the deferral of revenues and costs into future periods under lease accounting. In addition, for leases offered directly from Tesla Finance (but not for those offered through our bank partner), we will not receive the full amount of the cash for the vehicle price at delivery and will assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expanding our leasing offerings. We have set the residual values given to our customers under our resale value guarantee program at what we estimate will be the trade-in value of these vehicles at the end of the term of the option. Based on current market demand for our cars, we estimate the resale prices for our vehicles will continue to be above our resale value guarantee amounts. Should market values or customer demand decrease, these estimates may be impacted materially. The Tesla Gigafactory We are building the Tesla Gigafactory, a facility where we intend to work together with our suppliers to integrate battery precursor material, cell, module and battery pack production in one location. In June 2014, we broke ground on the Gigafactory outside of Reno, Nevada. Construction continued during the first quarter of 2015 with plans that the first cells will be produced in 2016. We will prepare and provide the land, buildings and utilities for the Gigafactory, invest in production equipment for battery cell, module and pack production and be responsible for the overall management of the Gigafactory and we will engage with partners who have significant experience in battery cell production. We have partnered with Panasonic to manufacture and supply us with battery cells and we anticipate bringing on additional partners to create a fully integrated industrial complex. Although planning discussions with production and supply chain partners continue to progress, to-date we have not formalized any agreements with any other partners. Given the size and complexity of this undertaking, the cost of building and operating the Gigafactory could exceed our current expectations and the Gigafactory may take longer to bring online than we anticipate. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Revenues Automotive revenue includes revenues related to deliveries of new Model S, including internet connectivity, Supercharging access, and specified software updates for cars equipped with Autopilot hardware, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers, amortization of revenue for cars sold with resale value guarantees, and Model S leasing revenue. Services and other revenue consists of sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other manufacturers, maintenance and development services, Tesla Energy, and pre-owned Tesla vehicle sales. Automotive revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015, were $893.3 million, an increase from $588.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily driven by the ramp in Model S deliveries. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, automotive revenue includes $53.7 million and $23.7 million from the accretion of the deferred revenues from our resale value guarantee and other similar programs, as well as Model S leasing. 21 Service and other revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $46.6 million, an increase from $31.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014 related primarily to increases in maintenance service revenue and powertrain sales. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, royalty fees, shipping and logistic costs and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $679.8 million, an increase from $465.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase in cost of automotive revenues was driven primarily by increased Model S deliveries. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we recognized $24.9 million and $14.5 million in cost of automotive revenues related to vehicle depreciation for cars accounted for as operating leases. For cars accounted for as leases our warranty reserves do not include projected warranty costs as such actual warranty costs are expensed as incurred. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, warranty costs incurred for our lease vehicles were $1.8 million and $1.2 million. Cost of services and other revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $48.1 million, an increase from $29.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase in cost of services and other revenues was driven primarily by increased cost associated powertrain sales to Daimler and maintenance services. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were $260.1 million and $155.1 million. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were 27.7% and 25.0%. The increase in gross profit from 2014 to 2015 was primarily due to manufacturing efficiencies, vehicle cost reductions, and favorable product mix, as well as higher regulatory credit sales, partially offset by increased warranty reserve estimates. Services and other gross margin was negative 3.2%, which was primarily driven by a planned price reduction for powertrain sales to Daimler. Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in R&D expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. R&D expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $167.2 million, an increase from $81.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase in R&D expenses consisted primarily of a $39.8 million increase in expensed materials primarily to support our Model X development, Autopilot, and other Model S improvements, a $22.7 million increase in employee compensation expenses, a $10.4 million increase in costs related to Model X, Autopilot, and dual motor powertrain engineering, design and testing activities, and a $5.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to increased headcount and increasing values of awards granted. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. SG&A expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $195.4 million, an increase from $117.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. SG&A expenses increased primarily from higher headcount and costs to support an expanded retail, service and Supercharger footprint as well as the general growth of the business. The $77.8 million increase in our SG&A expenses consisted primarily of a $36.5 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business as well as sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence, a $33.3 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, and a $9.9 million increase in professional and outside services costs. 22 Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $26.6 million and $11.9 million. The increase in interest expense from 2014 to 2015 was due to the issuance of $920.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2019 Notes and $1.38 billion aggregate principal amount of 2021 Notes during the first half of 2014. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Other expense, net, during the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $22.3 million, as compared to $6.7 million other income during the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase in our other expense, net, is primarily attributable to a $21.7 million unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact from our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, primarily unsettled intercompany balances and cash held in foreign currencies. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $3.0 million and $0.8 million. The increases in the provision for income taxes were due primarily to the increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015, we had $1.51 billion in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents including $874.3 million of money market funds. Amounts held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $408 million as of March 31, 2015, and consisted primarily of Norwegian krone, Japanese yen, euro, and Chinese yuan. Sources of cash are predominately from our deliveries of Model S, as well as customer deposits for Model S and Model X, sales of regulatory credits, and sales of powertrain components and systems. We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents, together with our current projections of cash flow from operating activities, will provide us with adequate liquidity over the next 12 months based on our current plans. These cash flows enable us to fund our ongoing operations, research and development projects for our planned Model X, Model 3, and certain other future products; purchase tooling and manufacturing equipment required to introduce Model X and to continue to ramp up production of Model S; construct our Gigafactory; and establish and expand our stores, service centers and Supercharger network. We currently anticipate making aggregate capital expenditures of about $1.5 billion during 2015. When market conditions are favorable, we may evaluate alternatives to pursue liquidity options to fund capital intensive initiatives. Should prevailing economic, financial, business or other factors adversely affect our ability to meet our operating cash requirements, we could be required to obtain funding though traditional or alternative sources of financing. We cannot be certain that additional funds would be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (131,794 ) $ 58,723 Net cash used in investing activities (432,344 ) (329,180 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 186,156 1,816,559 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as manufacturing, research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. 23 Our operating cash inflows include cash from sales of our Model S, customer deposits for Model S and Model X, sales of regulatory credits, cash from the provision of development services, and sales of powertrain components and systems. These cash inflows are offset by payments we make to our suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, employee compensation, operating leases and interest expense on our financings. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, cash provided by (used in) operating activities was ($131.8) million and $58.7 million. The decrease in operating cash flows in 2015 as compared to 2014 was due to an increase in finished goods inventory primarily due to cars in transit for customer orders and pre-owned vehicles, partially offset by proceeds from sales and marketing vehicles, as well as cash used for operating lease vehicles and higher operating expenses in R&D and SG&A. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing equipment and tooling and our stores, service centers and Supercharger network infrastructure. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, cash used in investing activities was $432.3 million and $329.2 million. Cash flows from investing activities and variability between comparable periods related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $426.1 million and $141.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Expenditures in all periods consisted primarily of purchases of capital equipment, tooling, and facilities to support our Model S and Model X manufacturing. Additionally, during the three months ended March 31, 2014 we purchased $189.1 million in marketable securities. In 2014, we began construction of our Gigafactory facility in Nevada. Teslas contribution to total capital expenditures is expected to be about $2.0 billion over the next 5 years. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we used cash of $56.3 million towards the construction of this project and expect to spend up to $300 million for the full year. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, net cash provided by financing activities was $186.2 million and $1.82 billion. Cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted primarily of $76.7 million in net proceeds from our warehouse facility and $78.0 million received from vehicle sales to our bank leasing partners. Cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2014 consisted primarily of $1.8 billion net proceeds from the issuance of our 2019 and 2021 Notes, including the associated hedge and warrant transactions. 0.25% and 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes and Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions In 2014, we issued $920.0 million principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 Notes) and $1.38 billion principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 Notes) in a public offering. The total net proceeds from these offerings, after deducting transaction costs, were approximately $905.8 million from 2019 Notes and $1.36 billion from 2021 Notes. The interest rates are fixed at 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for the 2019 and 2021 Notes and are payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on September 1, 2014. In connection with the offering of these notes in 2014, we purchased a convertible note hedges for $603.4 million and sold warrants $389.2 million. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of warrants are intended to offset any actual dilution from the conversion of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes. During the first quarter of 2015, the closing price of our common stock did not meet or exceed 130% of the applicable conversion price of our 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes on at least 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of the quarter; furthermore, no other conditions allowing holders of these notes to convert have been met as of March 31, 2015. Therefore, the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes are not convertible during the second quarter of 2015 and are classified as long-term debt. Should the closing price conditions be met in the second quarter of 2015 or a future quarter, the Notes will be convertible at their holders option during the immediately following quarter. 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes and Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions In May 2013, we issued $660.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% convertible senior notes due 2018 (the Notes) in a public offering. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting transaction costs, were approximately $648.0 million. The interest under the Notes is fixed at 1.50% per annum and is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 2013. 24 In connection with the offering of the 2018 Notes, we purchased a convertible note hedge for $177.5 million and sold warrants for $120.3 million. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of warrants are intended to offset any actual dilution from the conversion of the 2018 Notes. During the first quarter of 2015, the closing price of our common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price of our 2018 Notes on at least 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of the quarter; therefore, holders of 2018 Notes may convert their notes during the second quarter of 2015. Upon conversion of 2018 Notes, we will be obligated to pay cash for the principal amount of the converted notes and we may also have to deliver shares of our common stock in respect of such converted notes. Any conversion of the notes prior to their maturity or acceleration of the repayment of the notes could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, results of operations and financial condition. Should the closing price conditions be met in the second quarter of 2015 or a future quarter, 2018 Notes will be convertible at their holders option during the immediately following quarter. Under current market conditions, we do not expect the 2018 Notes will be converted in the short term. For more information on the 2018 Notes, 2019 Notes, and 2021 Notes see Note 6 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Contractual Obligations We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties, including certain debt financing arrangements and leases, primarily for stores, service centers, certain manufacturing and corporate offices. These also include, as part of our normal business practices, contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services and capacity reservation contracts. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we received proceeds of $77.7 million under our Warehouse Facility. The Warehouse facility matures in March 2017, at which time all outstanding borrowing will become due. Prior to that date, principal payments will be due in the amount that the borrowing limit decreases below our outstanding principal balance. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 we made additional sales to bank leasing partners, which are accounted for as collateralized borrowing. Under these arrangements, we have guaranteed that the bank will receive a minimum residual value for each vehicle. Should the car be sold by the bank to a third party, we are obligated to pay the bank for the difference between sales proceeds and the guarantee amount. We may, at our option, elect to repurchase the vehicles by paying the full guarantee amount, which was $55.4 million March 31, 2015. There have been no other material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2015 from the contractual obligations disclosed in Part II, Item 7, Contractual Obligations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. I TEM 3.