MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to accelerate the worlds transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation and other services related to our products. Automotive We achieved first-quarter records for vehicle production and deliveries in the first quarter of 2020 with 102,672 and 88,496, respectively. This contributed to our achievement, for the first time in our history, of both positive income from operations and net income for the seasonally weak first fiscal quarter of the year. We also commenced production and deliveries of Model Y, our compact sport utility vehicle built on the Model 3 platform, in the first quarter of 2020, significantly ahead of the schedule we announced at its unveiling. Energy Generation and Storage During the first quarter of 2020, we continued to ramp customer installations of our Solar Roof product and its production at Gigafactory New York, and reached a significant milestone of production in one week of roof tiles sufficient for 1,000 roofs. We also deployed our first Megapack, our up to 3 MWh energy storage system for commercial, industrial and utility and energy generation customers, and installed our 100,000 th Powerwall. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Impact of Current Macroeconomic Factors During and following the first quarter of 2020, there has been a widespread worldwide impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Numerous government regulations and public advisories, as well as shifting social behaviors, have temporarily limited or closed non-essential transportation, government functions, business activities and person-to-person interactions, and the duration of such trends is difficult to predict. Our operations have also been adversely affected in the first quarter of 2020 and beyond, including as described below. We experienced a government-imposed suspension of operations for 10 days at Gigafactory Shanghai immediately following a scheduled 7-day closure for the Lunar New Year holiday, after which we resumed operations on February 10, 2020. Panasonic, our partner that manufactures lithium-ion battery cells for our products at our Gigafactory Nevada, suspended its operations there for 14 days before resuming certain operations starting on April 11, 2020. Finally, we temporarily suspended most production at Gigafactory New York starting on March 14, 2020 pursuant to a New York State executive order, and we decided to temporarily suspend all production at the Fremont Factory starting on March 23, 2020 and most production at Gigafactory Nevada starting on April 12, 2020 in order to accommodate the related challenges for our employees and their families and our suppliers. We also instituted certain temporary cost reduction measures by furloughing certain of our hourly employees and reducing most salaried employees base salaries globally while our U.S. operations are scaled back. Social distancing measures and reduced operations or closures at government offices and businesses, including motor vehicle departments, vehicle auction houses and municipal and utility company inspectors, also resulted in challenges in or postponements past the first quarter of 2020 for our new vehicle deliveries, used vehicle sales, and energy product deployments, and such conditions have generally continued. The specific timing and pace of our resumption of normal U.S. manufacturing operations will depend on the status of various government regulations and the readiness of our suppliers, vendors and currently inactive production workforce. Although we are working with each of our suppliers and government agencies on how best to resume and sustain production, it ultimately remains uncertain how quickly we and our suppliers will be able to return to prior levels of production and maintain such levels. Likewise, it is possible that the contingencies generally inherent in our ongoing construction of and ramp at Gigafactory Shanghai and Gigafactory Berlin may be exacerbated by such conditions. 34 Even after we restore operations at our U.S. production facilities, our manufacturing rates and timelines may also be affected by global economic conditions and levels of consumer comfort and spend, which could impact demand in the worldwide transportation and automotive industries and for construction projects such as the addition of solar energy systems. We have always monitored macroeconomic conditions to remain flexible and optimize and evolve our business as appropriate, and we will continue to do so. Because the impact of current conditions on an ongoing basis is yet largely unknown, is rapidly evolving, and has been varied across geographic regions, this ongoing assessment will be particularly critical to allow us to accurately project demand and infrastructure requirements globally and deploy our production, workforce, and other resources accordingly. Moreover, as we have offered and continue to offer various financing options for our vehicles and energy products, we bear the credit risk on such transactions. To the extent that market conditions, unemployment rates and/or government-mandated moratoriums on periodic payments result in significant rates of default by our customers, our business would be adversely impacted. AutomotiveProduction We have experienced early success with the production ramp of Model Y at the Fremont Factory, and we were able to manufacture more vehicles in less than a full quarter of production than either in the first six months of Model 3 production at Fremont or in the first quarter of Model 3 production at Gigafactory Shanghai. Production of Model Y includes processes that also accommodate Model 3 production, and the benefit of our simplified, flexible and scalable approach to manufacturing is increasingly evident. Investing in our product roadmap remains a key priority and opportunity, and we are supporting this investment with ongoing cost reduction and productivity improvement efforts. At Gigafactory Shanghai, we have continued to ramp our installed Model 3 capacity, and construction of the next phase to add Model Y manufacturing capacity remains underway. We also completed land preparations at and are proceeding with the construction of Gigafactory Berlin, where Model Y will be the first vehicle we produce. The construction of and ramp at these factories are subject to a number of uncertainties inherent in all new manufacturing operations, including ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements, maintenance of operational licenses and approvals for additional expansion, potential supply chain constraints, hiring, training and retention of qualified employees, and the pace of bringing production equipment and processes online with the capability to manufacture high-quality units at scale, and it is not yet certain whether and to what extent the COVID-19 pandemic may further affect such uncertainties. Overall, we are encouraged by our early Model Y progress and the achievement of our all-time first quarter vehicle production record, assisted by our expansion to multiple factories. Our manufacturing capabilities are becoming increasingly resilient, and we plan to continue that trend with our existing and future factories. AutomotiveDemand and Sales Likewise, we achieved a first-quarter vehicle delivery record in the first quarter of 2020 notwithstanding, in addition to COVID-19-related challenges, the sunset or reduction of government incentives on electric vehicles in the U.S. and Norway and the fact that sales of vehicles in the automotive industry tend to be particularly difficult to grow in the seasonally low early part of the year. The maturity and adaptability of our business model, together with the advanced technology in our vehicles, allowed us to pioneer touchless vehicle deliveries in certain regions, which contributed to our deliveries, as well as touchless test drives, which allow prospective customers to experience our vehicles while promoting their comfort and convenience. We continue to increase our addressable market by offering additional Model 3 trims in China that will be produced at Gigafactory Shanghai, and for Model Y, ramping production at the Fremont Factory and preparing for future production at Gigafactory Shanghai and Gigafactory Berlin. As always, we also strive to improve the performance and functionality of our products, including by increasing the EPA-estimated maximum range of Model S to 391 miles and of Model X to 351 miles without increasing battery size, and introducing a heat pump and octovalve system in Model Y to increase its power efficiency. In April 2020, we also enabled for our applicable FSD-optioned users stop sign and traffic light recognition and braking, which we had piloted during the first quarter of 2020 through our Early Access Program, and we expect this critical step on the path to fully autonomous driving to improve markedly with additional fleet learning. 35 As is inherent in the automotive industry , we may be impacted by trade and environmental policies, political uncertainty and economic cycles involving geographic regions where we have significant operations, which are inherently unpredictable. We may also make certain adjustments to our prices from time to time in the ordinary course of business, including as we introduce new vehicles and variants and optimize the pricing among them. Such pricing changes may impact our vehicles resale values, and in turn our operating results. While we cannot predict the magnitude or duration of current macroeconomic conditions, we believe that we have gained key advantages with the flexibility and momentum we have shown in the first quarter of 2020, the ongoing ramp of our offering of Model Y in the globally popular compact sport utility vehicle space, and a significant backlog of vehicle orders. Moreover, we are hopeful that the demonstrabl y positive environmental impact from the recent worldwide reduction in the transportation-related consumption of fossil fuels will facilitate greater awareness for the importance of sustainable energy and related products, including our products. AutomotiveDeliveries and Customer Infrastructure We continue to optimize our worldwide vehicle manufacturing and delivery patterns while relying on production at only two factories. While we have historically experienced planning and logistics challenges related to single-site production, Gigafactory Shanghai is becoming an increasingly larger contributor to our overall production and we expect to ultimately alleviate such challenges through increased local production, including at Gigafactory Berlin. We also continue to expand and invest in our servicing and charging locations and capabilities to keep pace with our customer vehicle fleet and ensure a convenient and efficient customer experience. However, if our customer vehicles, particularly in the rapidly growing Model 3 fleet and newly launched Model Y fleet, experience unexpected reliability issues, it could outpace and overburden our servicing capabilities and parts inventory. Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment We believe we have positioned ourselves well for growth upon the resumption of our energy product-related operations that were gaining momentum prior to their temporary suspension or reduction, including the ramp of our Solar Roof production and installation training, and the offering of our largest energy storage product with Megapack, for which the demand is currently far outpacing our production capacity. Cross-selling between our solar energy systems and energy storage systems is another area of opportunity, and a significant portion of our residential customers of the former are also opting for the latter. In April 2020, the government agency overseeing our agreement with the SUNY Foundation for the construction and use of Gigafactory New York issued guidance that all obligations relating to investment and employment targets under certain of its projects, including our obligation to be compliant with our applicable targets under such agreement on April 30, 2020, may be deferred for a one-year period upon such agencys approval of an application for relief by the obligor. As we temporarily suspended most of our manufacturing operations at Gigafactory New York pursuant to a New York State executive order issued in March 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we intend to apply for and expect to be granted such deferral. Moreover, as we had exceeded our investment and employment obligations under this agreement prior to such mandated reduction of operations, we do not currently expect any issues meeting all applicable future obligations under this agreement. However, if our expectations set forth above or as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or substantial payments to the SUNY Foundation. 36 Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses Our capital expenditures are typically difficult to project beyond the short term given the number and breadth of our core projects at any given time, and uncertainties in future global market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic currently makes projections, including in the near-term, more challenging. For example, the curve of any new product ramp, such as for Model Y and the Solar Roof, is inherently subject to uncertainty of timing, and if we are able to meet various milestones along such ramp more quickly than expected, our capital expenditures may be accelerated. We also continuously evaluate, and as appropriate adjust, our capital expenditures based on, among other things: our manufacturing plans for our various products, which we may rebalance from time to time based on the mix of demand among them and other contingent factors; the pace and prioritization of current projects under development; and the addition of any new projects. Moreover, we are generally increasing the capital efficiency of our projects with experience , and we may find that our actual capital expenditures on new projects are different than previously expected. Subject to the above, considering the expected pace of the manufacturing ramps for our products, construction and expansion of our factories, and pipeline of announced projects under development, and consistent with our current strategy of using partners to manufacture battery cells, as well as considering all other infrastructure growth, we currently expect our average annual capital expenditures in 2020 and the two succeeding fiscal years to be $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion. We expect operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to continue to decrease in the future as we focus on increasing operational efficiency and process automation, and as long as macroeconomic factors facilitate the achievement of increases in overall revenues from expanding sales. In March 2018, our stockholders approved the 2018 CEO Performance Award, with vesting contingent on our Board of Directors certification of the achievement of specified market capitalization and operational milestones. We will incur significant non-cash stock-based compensation expense for each tranche under this award after the related operational milestone initially becomes probable of being met, and if later than the grant date, we will also have to record a cumulative catch-up expense at such time. Such catch-up expense may be material depending on the length of time elapsed from the grant date. Moreover, as the expense for a tranche is recorded over the longer of (i) the expected achievement period of the relevant operational milestone and (ii) only if the related market capitalization milestone has not been achieved, its expected achievement period, the achievement of a market capitalization milestone earlier than expected may accelerate the rate at which such expense is recognized. Upon vesting of a tranche, all remaining associated expense will be recognized immediately. As of March 31, 2020, two operational milestones have been achieved and no market capitalization milestones have been achieved and consequently, no shares subject to the 2018 CEO Performance Award have vested as of the date of this filing. However, if the value of Teslas closing stock price continues near or higher than the levels seen in late April 2020, the first market capitalization milestone of $100 billion is expected to be met during the second quarter of 2020. If the first tranche under the 2018 CEO Performance Award vests during the second quarter of 2020 as currently expected, the remaining unamortized expense of $22 million for that tranche, which was expected to be recognized in the third quarter of 2020 as determined on the grant date, would be accelerated into the second quarter of 2020. See Note 11, Equity Incentive Plans2018 CEO Performance Award , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details regarding the stock-based compensation relating to the 2018 CEO Performance Award. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. 37 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been uncertainty and disruption in the global economy and financial markets. The estimates used for, but not limited to, determining significant economic incentive for residual value guarantee arrangements, sales return reserves, the collectability of accounts receivable, inventory valuation, fair value of long-lived assets, goodwill, fair value of financial instruments, fair value and residual value of operating lease vehicles and solar energy systems subject to leases could be impacted. We have assessed the impact and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that required an update to our estimates and assumptions or materially affected the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. T hese estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Part II, Item 7, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Automotive sales $ 4,893 $ 3,509 $ 1,384 39 % Automotive leasing 239 215 24 11 % Total automotive revenues 5,132 3,724 1,408 38 % Services and other 560 493 67 14 % Total automotive & services and other segment revenue 5,692 4,217 1,475 35 % Energy generation and storage segment revenue 293 324 (31 ) -10 % Total revenues $ 5,985 $ 4,541 $ 1,444 32 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash deliveries of new Model S, Model X, Model 3 and Model Y vehicles, including access to our Supercharger network, internet connectivity, Autopilot and FSD features and over-the-air software updates, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Cash deliveries are vehicles that are not subject to lease accounting. Our revenue from regulatory credits fluctuates by quarter depending on when a contract is executed with a buyer and when the credits are delivered. However, we generally expect higher revenue from regulatory credit sales as our production and deliveries increase. For example, our revenue from regulatory credit sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $111 million while it was $354 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020. Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles under direct lease agreements as well as those sold with resale value guarantees accounted for as operating leases under lease accounting. We began offering direct leasing for Model 3 vehicles in the second quarter of 2019. We do not yet offer leasing for Model Y vehicles. Services and other revenue consists of non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers, and vehicle insurance revenue. 38 Automotive sales revenue increased $1.38 billion, or 39% , in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 , primarily due to an increase of 21,174 Model 3 and Model Y cash deliveries from additional production capacity at Gigafactory Shanghai and the commencement of Model Y deliveries in the first quarter of 2020. Additionally, due to pricing adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the three months ended March 31, 2019, we estimated that there was a greater likelihood that customers would exercise their buyback options and adjusted our sales return reserve on vehicles previously sold under our buyback options program which resulted in a reduction of automotive sales revenue of $501 million that did not similarly occur this period. There was also an increase of $139 million from additional sales of regulatory credits to $354 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase s in automotive sales revenue were partially offset by a decrease in the average selling price of our Model 3 cash deliveries primarily due to Gigafactory Shanghai producing only Standard Range Plus Model 3 in the first quarter of 2020. Automotive leasing revenue increased $24 million, or 11%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program, partially due to the introduction of Model 3 direct leasing in the second quarter of 2019, partially offset by a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee leasing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. Services and other revenue increased $67 million, or 14%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in non-warranty maintenance services revenue as our fleet continues to grow and an increase in sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers, partially offset by a decrease in volume of used vehicle sales. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Energy generation and storage revenue includes sales and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products, services related to such products, and sales of solar energy systems incentives. Energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $31 million, or 10%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to decreases in deployments of solar cash and loan jobs. 39 Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Cost of revenues Automotive sales $ 3,699 $ 2,856 $ 843 30 % Automotive leasing 122 117 5 4 % Total automotive cost of revenues 3,821 2,973 848 29 % Services and other 648 686 (38 ) -6 % Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues 4,469 3,659 810 22 % Energy generation and storage segment 282 316 (34 ) -11 % Total cost of revenues $ 4,751 $ 3,975 $ 776 20 % Gross profit total automotive $ 1,311 $ 751 Gross margin total automotive 26 % 20 % Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment $ 1,223 $ 558 Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment 21 % 13 % Gross profit energy generation and storage segment $ 11 $ 8 Gross margin energy generation and storage segment 4 % 2 % Total gross profit $ 1,234 $ 566 Total gross margin 21 % 12 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of operating lease vehicles over the lease term, as well as warranty expenses recognized as incurred. Cost of automotive leasing revenue also includes vehicle connectivity costs and allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network for vehicles under our leasing programs. Costs of services and other revenue includes costs associated with providing non-warranty after-sales services , costs to acquire and certify used vehicles, costs for retail merchandise, and costs to provide vehicle insurance. Cost of services and other revenue also includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead associated with the sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers. 40 Cost of automotive sales revenue increased $843 m illion, or 30% , in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 , primarily due to an increase of 21,174 Model 3 and Model Y cash deliverie s . D ue to pricing adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the three months ended March 31, 2019, we estimated that there was a greater likelihood that customers would exercise their buyback options and if customers elect to exercise the buyback option, we expect to be able to subsequently resell the returned vehicles, which resulted in a reduction of automotive cost of sales of $409 million that did not similarly occur this period. The increase in cost of automotive sales revenue was partially offset by a decrease in average Model 3 costs per unit due to Gigafactory Shanghai producing only Standard Range Plus Model 3 in the first quarter of 2020 , lower freight and duty costs from local production in China , and additional manufacturing efficiencies in the production of Model 3 in our Fremont Factory . Additionally, as a result of temporary suspension of production at the Fremont Factory, we incurred idle capacity charges of $24 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020. Cost of automotive leasing revenue increased $5 million, or 4%, in the year ended March 31, 2020 compared to the year ended March 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program, partially due to the introduction of Model 3 direct leasing in the second quarter of 2019, partially offset by a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee leasing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. Cost of services and other revenue decreased $38 million, or 6%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to decreased costs of used vehicle sales from lower sales volume, offset by an increase in cost of sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers in line with the increase in revenue and a slight increase in costs of our new service centers, additional service personnel in existing and new service centers, Mobile Service capabilities, parts distribution centers and investment in new body shops to provide maintenance services to our rapidly growing fleet of vehicles. Gross margin for total automotive increased from 20% to 26% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due an increase of $139 million in sales of regulatory credits and an improvement of Model 3 gross margin primarily from lower freight and duty costs from local production in China and additional manufacturing efficiencies in the production of Model 3 in our Fremont Factory . Additionally, there was an improvement of Model S and Model X gross margin from lower freight and duties from regional sales mix. While Model Y gross margin was positive in the first quarter of deliveries, it partially offset the increases in total automotive gross margin as it is lower than the margins of our existing automotive products. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment increased from 13% to 21% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to the automotive gross margin impacts discussed above and improved services and other gross margin from increased operational efficiencies. Additionally, there was an increase due to a lower proportion of services and other within the segment in the three months ended March 31, 2020, which operates at a lower gross margin than our automotive business. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect material and labor costs, warehouse rent, freight, warranty expense, other overhead costs and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. In addition, where arrangements are accounted for as operating leases, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of the cost of leased solar energy systems, maintenance costs associated with those systems and amortization of any initial direct costs. Cost of energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $34 million, or 11%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in deployments of solar cash and loan jobs and lower costs per unit for both Powerpack and Powerwall, partially offset by higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from 2% to 4% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Energy storage gross margin improved in the current year as a result of lower materials costs, partially offset by a lower gross margin in our cash and loan solar business driven by higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. 41 Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Research and development $ 324 $ 340 $ (16 ) -5 % As a percentage of revenues 5 % 7 % Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 7% to 5% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily from an increase in overall revenues from our expanding sales, as well as from our focus on increasing operational efficiency and process automation, our efforts to scale down and optimize our cost structure relative to the size of our business. R&D expenses decreased $16 million, or 5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a $22 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from cost efficiency initiatives, partially offset by an increase of $10 million in facilities, freight, and depreciation expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 627 $ 704 $ (77 ) -11 % As a percentage of revenues 10 % 16 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses generally consist of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and litigation settlements. SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 16% to 10% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily from an increase in overall revenues from our expanding sales, as well as from our focus on increasing operational efficiency and process automation, our efforts to scale down and optimize our cost structure relative to the size of our business. SG&A expenses decreased $77 million, or 11%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a $60 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from cost efficiency initiatives and an $18 million decrease in office, information technology and facilities-related expenses and sales and marketing activities. Restructuring and other Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Restructuring and other $ $ 44 $ (44 ) -100 % As a percentage of revenues 0 % 1 % During the first quarter of 2019, we carried out certain restructuring actions in order to reduce costs and improve efficiency. As a result, we recognized $44 million of costs primarily related to employee termination expenses and losses from closing certain stores. These costs were substantially paid by the end of first quarter of 2019. There were no restructuring actions in the three months ended March 31, 2020. 42 Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Interest expense $ 169 $ 158 $ 11 7 % As a percentage of revenues 3 % 3 % Interest expense increased by $11 million, or 7%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in our average outstanding indebtedness as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Other income (expense), net $ (54 ) $ 26 $ (80 ) Not meaningful As a percentage of revenues -1 % 1 % Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and changes in the fair values of our fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Other income (expense), net, changed unfavorably by $80 million, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The change was primarily due to unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and an increase in losses from interest rate swaps related to our debt facilities year-over-year. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Provision for income taxes $ 2 $ 23 $ (21 ) -91 % Effective tax rate 3 % -4 % Our provision for income taxes decreased by $21 million, or 91%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to the decrease in income within certain foreign jurisdictions year-over-year. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 $ % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries $ 52 $ 34 $ 18 53 % Our net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests was related to financing fund arrangements. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests increased by $18 million, or 53%, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The change was primarily due to lower activities from new financing fund arrangements. 43 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had $8.08 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $2.05 billion and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan, euros and Canadian dollars. Our sources of cash are predominantly from our deliveries of vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt facilities, proceeds from financing funds and proceeds from equity offerings. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows enable us to fund ongoing operations, research and development projects for new products, establishment and/or increases of Model 3 and Model Y production capacity at the Fremont Factory and at Gigafactory Shanghai, the continued expansion of Gigafactory Nevada, the construction of Gigafactory Berlin, the manufacturing ramp of the Solar Roof at Gigafactory New York, and the continued expansion of our retail and service locations, body shops, Mobile Service fleet and Supercharger network. As discussed in and subject to the considerations referenced in Part I, Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsManagement Opportunities, Challenges and RisksTrends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, considering the expected pace of the manufacturing ramps for our products, construction and expansion of our factories, and pipeline of projects under development, and consistent with our current strategy of using a partner to manufacture battery cells, as well as considering all other infrastructure growth, we currently expect our average annual capital expenditures in 2020 and the two succeeding fiscal years to be $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion. We expect that the cash we generate from our core operations will generally be sufficient to cover our future capital expenditures and to pay down our near-term debt obligations, although we may choose to seek alternative financing sources. For example, we expect that much of our investment in Gigafactory Shanghai will continue to be funded through indebtedness arranged through local financial institutions in China, such as the RMB 9.0 billion (or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars) fixed asset term facility and RMB 2.25 billion (or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars) working capital revolving facility that our local subsidiary entered into in December 2019, and we expect the same with respect to Gigafactory Berlin . As always, we continually evaluate our capital expenditure needs and may decide it is best to raise additional capital to fund the rapid growth of our business. We have an agreement to spend or incur $5.0 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period following full production at Gigafactory New York. In April 2020, the government agency overseeing this agreement issued guidance that all obligations relating to investment and employment targets under certain of its projects, including our obligation to be compliant with our applicable targets under such agreement on April 30, 2020, may be deferred for a one-year period upon such agencys approval of an application for relief by the obligor. As we temporarily suspended most of our manufacturing operations at Gigafactory New York pursuant to a New York State executive order issued in March 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we intend to apply for and expect to be granted such deferral. Moreover, as we had exceeded our investment and employment obligations under this agreement prior to such mandated reduction of operations, we do not currently expect any issues meeting all applicable future obligations under this agreement , and we do not believe that we face a significant risk of default. We expect that our current sources of liquidity together with our projection of cash flows from operating activities will provide us with adequate liquidity over at least the next 12 months. A large portion of our future expenditures is to fund our growth, and we can adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment, including future expansion of our product offerings, retail and service locations, body shops, Mobile Service fleet, and Supercharger network. For example, if the resumption of our normal U.S. manufacturing operations takes longer than expected, including due to global economic conditions and levels of consumer comfort and spend impacting demand in the worldwide transportation, automotive and energy product industries, the pace of our capital expenditures may be correspondingly slowed. We may need or want to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available to us when we need or want them, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. 44 In addition, we had $2.43 billion of unused committed amounts under our credit facilities and financing funds as of March 31, 2020 , some of which are subject to satisfying specified conditions prior to draw-down (such as pledging to our lenders sufficient amounts of qualified receivables, inventories, leased vehicles and our interests in those leases, solar energy systems and the associated customer contracts, our interests in financing funds or various other assets; and contributing or selling qualified solar energy systems and the associated customer contracts or qualified leased vehicles and our interests in those leases into the financing funds). Upon the draw-down of any unused committed amounts, there are no restrictions on use of available funds for general corporate purposes. For details regarding our indebtedness and financing funds, refer to Note 1 0 , Debt , and Note 1 3 , Variable Interest Entity Arrangements , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q . Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 Net cash used in operating activities $ (440 ) $ (640 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (480 ) $ (306 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 2,708 $ (653 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative and working capital, especially inventory, which includes vehicles in transit. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales, customer lease payments, customer deposits, cash from sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage products. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, operating expenses, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings. Net cash used in operating activities decreased by $200 million to $440 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $640 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019. This favorable change was primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses and gains, of $783 million and $188 million of the repayment of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2019 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 (which was classified as an operating activity, as this represented an interest payment on the discounted convertible notes), partially offset by the increase in working capital of $771 million. The increase in working capital was mainly driven by a smaller increase in deferred revenue, due to higher deferred regulatory credits in the three months ended March 31, 2019, a larger decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities from less sales related tax due as a result of quarter-over-quarter changes in deliveries, an increase in operating lease vehicles in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to a decrease for the same period in 2019, as Model 3 leases were introduced in the second quarter of 2019, and a larger increase in inventory from buildup of finished goods from limited capacity to deliver or install our products at the end of the first quarter of 2020. The increase in working capital was partially offset by an increase in customer deposits in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to a decrease for the same period in 2019. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $455 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020, mainly for Model Y production at the Fremont Factory and Gigafactory Shanghai construction, and $280 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, mainly for Model 3 production. Design, acquisition and installation of solar energy systems amounted to $26 million and $25 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 45 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2020 consisted primarily of $2.31 billion from our February 2020 public offering of common stock, net of issuance costs, $359 million of net borrowings under our vehicle lease-backed loan and security agreements (the Warehouse Agreements) , $292 million of net borrowings under the senior secured asset-based revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) and $160 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options and other stock issuances. These cash inflows were partially offset by $129 million of payments of the automotive asset-backed notes and $100 million principal repayments of our finance leases. Cash flows used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 consisted primarily of a $732 million portion of the repayment of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2019 that was classified as financing activity, collateralized lease repayments of $134 million, and repayments of $115 million of the automotive asset-backed notes. These cash outflows were partially offset by $316 million of net borrowings under the Credit Agreement and $82 million of net borrowings under the Warehouse Agreements. Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations did not materially change during the three months ended March 31, 2020 except for debt activity, as discussed in more detail in Note 10, Debt , and the aggregate impact of new and updated supplier arrangements for Gigafactory Shanghai and Gigafactory Berlin during the quarter ended March 31, 2020. The following tables sets forth the aggregate impact from these supplier arrangements on our purchase obligations as of March 31, 2020 (in millions): Nine months ending December 31, 2020 $ 912 2021 86 Total $ 998 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 46