MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We design, develop, manufacture, and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, and energy storage products. We are currently producing and selling our Model S sedan and our Model X sport utility vehicle. Since the introduction of Model S in June 2012, we have enhanced our vehicle offerings with all-wheel drive capability, autopilot options, and free over-the-air software updates. We commenced customer deliveries of our Model X in September 2015 and are currently ramping production. We have delivered over 122,000 vehicles through March 31, 2016. We unveiled Model 3, a lower priced sedan designed for the mass market, in the first quarter of 2016 to significant interest. Given this demand for Model 3, we expect to achieve volume production and deliveries in late 2017. In addition to our automotive products, we recently announced the next generation of our energy storage products, the 7 kWh Powerwall for residential applications and the 100 kWh Powerpack for commercial and industrial applications. We began production and deliveries of these products, which we sell under the Tesla Energy brand, in the third quarter of 2015. We transitioned the production of these products from the Tesla Factory to the Gigafactory during the fourth quarter of 2015. Our primary source of revenue is from the sale of our vehicles. During the quarter ended March 31, 2016, we recognized total revenues of $1.15 billion, an increase of $207.2 million over total revenues of $939.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, primarily driven by growth of Model S deliveries worldwide. Gross margin for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 was 22.0%, a decrease from 27.7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. We continue to increase our sales and service footprint worldwide and expand our Supercharging and destination charging networks. With the continued global expansion of our customer support infrastructure, selling, general and administrative expenses were $318.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $195.4 million for the quarter ended March 30, 2015. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Demand, Production and Deliveries We are currently producing and selling both the Model S sedan and the Model X sport utility vehicle. We have broadened the appeal of Model S by introducing new variants that improve range, performance, and value. The introduction of Model X now provides customers with a performance electric vehicle option in the sport utility segment for the first time. Similar to Model S, we expect to introduce new versions and functionality for the Model X over time, beginning with the 75 kWh version of Model X that we recently introduced. We unveiled Model 3 in the first quarter of 2016 and received more than 325,000 reservations for this vehicle within one week of its introduction. Overall, we expect that demand for our vehicles will continue to increase worldwide as more people drive and become aware of our vehicles, as we grow our customer sales and service infrastructure, and as we continue to develop our vehicles. We have been increasing our vehicle production activities and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. In August 2014, we began a significant production capacity increase at the Tesla Factory by transitioning to our new final assembly line and upgrading our body center. These production capacity increases continued into 2015, with further investments including building a new paint shop, a new body shop for Model X, and additional stamping capacity. In the first quarter of 2016, we produced 15,510 vehicles, including about 2,650 Model X vehicles. Our Model X production ramp has faced challenges, including supplier part shortages. However, we are making significant progress in increasing production and plan to continue increasing total vehicle production to support over 50,000 deliveries in the second half of this year, which gives us confidence in our ability to deliver 80,000 to 90,000 new Model S and Model X vehicles in 2016. In addition, we are on track to achieve volume production and deliveries of Model 3 in late 2017. In order to meet that timeframe, we will be holding both ourselves and our suppliers accountable to be ready for volume production in advance of that timing. We expect our production will increase considerably each year for the next several years, and are targeting an overall vehicle production level of 500,000 vehicles, including Model S, Model X and Model 3, in 2018. Increasing production five fold over the next two years will be challenging and will likely require some additional capital, but this is our goal and we will be working hard to achieve it. 23 In addition to expanding our vehicle production and deliveries, we expect to continue to lower the cost of manufacturing our vehicles over the next several q uarters. We expect that this trend will contribute to improved automotive gross margin over time, excluding the impact of foreign currency movements. Significant cost improvements for Model S were achieved in 2014 and 2015 relating to material cost reducti ons from both engineering and commercial actions, and manufacturing efficiencies, excluding the impact of newly introduced Model S variants and Model X. However, during our product introductions over the last few years, we encountered manufacturing ineffic iencies and supplier constraints which negatively impacted our gross margin. We expect that automotive gross margin should increase during 2016 due to cost reductions for Model S, and improving margin on Model X as our manufacturing efficiency improves for that vehicle, supporting our plan to be profitable for the fourth quarter of 2016. If we are not able to achieve the planned cost reductions from our various cost savings and process improvement initiatives or ramp Model X efficiently, our ability to reac h our gross margin goals would be negatively affected. We are expanding our sales, service and charging infrastructure worldwide to accommodate a much larger fleet of vehicles and provide more timely service in areas with a high concentration of Tesla customers. In particular, we remain on plan to open more than 70 additional retail and service locations in 2016, to bring our total to nearly 300 locations. Since we now offer our vehicles in many countries throughout North America, Europe and Asia, our expansion will primarily occur in geographic areas in which we already have a presence. We expect our long-term sales outside of North America will be over half of our worldwide automotive revenue. As compared to markets in the United States, we have relatively limited experience in international markets, and thus we may face difficulties meeting our future international expansion plans. If we experience unexpected difficulties or delays in finding and opening desirable locations for stores and service centers, we may not be able to meet our delivery plans. Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses We have decided to advance our 500,000 total unit build plan by two years to 2018, which is approximately double our prior growth plan. Given this plan, we are currently in the process of evaluating our capital expenditure needs, but expect it will be approximately 50% higher than the $1.5 billion we previously estimated for the full year of 2016. Our capital expenditure needs include expenditures for the tooling, production equipment and construction of the Model 3 production lines, equipment to support cell production at the Gigafactory, more than 70 new retail locations and service centers, and approximately 250 new Supercharger locations. While we are also currently in the process of evaluating our operating expenditures given our revised vehicle build plan, we currently expect operating expenses to grow by approximately 20 25% in 2016 as compared to 2015. This increase is driven primarily by the expansion of our retail and service centers, as well as increases in research and development required to bring Model 3 to market and selling, general and administrative costs to support the growth of our business. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to decline over time as a percentage of revenue as we focus on increasing operational efficiency while continuing to expand our customer and corporate infrastructure. Over time, we also expect total operating expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the net book value of our Supercharger network was $170.6 million and $166.6 million, and as of March 31, 2016 our Supercharger network included 613 locations globally. We plan to continue investing in our Supercharger network for the foreseeable future, including in North America, Europe and Asia, and expect such spending to be a minimal portion of total capital spending during 2016. During 2016, we expect that this investment will grow our Supercharger network by about 40%. We allocate Supercharger related expenses to cost of automotive revenues and selling, general, and administrative expenses. These costs were immaterial for all periods presented. Customer Financing Options We offer loans and leases in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offer a resale value guarantee in connection with certain loans offered by financial institutions and as of March 31, 2016 had approximately 20,690 vehicles under this program. We expanded this program to selected European and Asian markets during the first half of 2015. Resale value guarantees available for exercise within the next 12 months total $192.4 million in value and relate to 4,209 vehicles. Vehicle deliveries with the resale value guarantee do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. However, this program requires the deferral of revenues and costs into future periods as they are considered leases for accounting purposes. 24 While we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, if a customer exercises the option to return the vehicle to us, we are exposed to liquidity risk that the resale value of vehicles under these programs may be lower than our guarantee, or the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates, or we may be unable to resell the used cars in a timely manner, all of which could adversely impact our cash flows. Alternatively, in cases where customers retain their vehicles past the expiration of the guarantee period, the remaining deferred revenues and costs will be recognized at no gross profit. Based on current market demand for our cars, we estimate the resale prices for our vehicles will continue to be above our resale value guarantee amounts. Should market values of our vehicles or customer demand decrease, these estimates may be impacted materially. We currently offer leases in the U.S. directly from our captive financing entity, as well as through a leasing partner. Leasing through Tesla Finance is now available in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We also offer financing arrangements through entities in Canada, Germany and the U.K. As of March 31, 2016, we have active leases for approximately 5,060 vehicles through our captive financing entities in the U.S. and Germany and approximately 9,200 vehicles through our leasing partner. Leasing through both our captive financing entities and our leasing partner exposes us to residual value risk and will adversely impact our near-term operating results by requiring the deferral of revenues and costs into future periods under lease accounting. In addition, for leases offered directly from our captive financing entities (but not for those offered through our bank partner), we only receive a limited portion of cash for the vehicle price at delivery and will assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expanding our financing offerings, including our lease financing options and the financial sources to support them, to support the overall financing needs of our customers. To the extent that we are unable to arrange such options for our customers on terms that are attractive, our sales, financial results and cash flow could be negatively impacted. The Gigafactory We are developing the Gigafactory as a facility where we work together with our suppliers to integrate production of battery material, cells, modules and battery packs in one location. We broke ground on the Gigafactory in June 2014 and began assembling our Tesla Energy products in the first portion of the facility in the fourth quarter of 2015. We currently expect to produce cells at the Gigafactory beginning in the fourth quarter of 2016 for use initially in our Tesla Energy products and later for our vehicles. The revision in our vehicle build plan also includes an adjustment of our cell production plans at the Gigafactory. We continue to invest in construction of the building and utilities at the Gigafactory and in production equipment for battery, module and pack production. We will be responsible for the overall management of the Gigafactory and will engage with partners who have significant experience in battery cell and material production. Panasonic has agreed to partner with us on the Gigafactory with investments in production equipment that it will use to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment located at the Gigafactory at negotiated prices. As these terms convey a right to use the production related assets as defined within ASC 840 Leases , we will consider these leased assets beginning with the start of cell production in 2016. This will result in us recording the value of such assets within property, plant, and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding liability recorded to financing obligations. Given the size and complexity of this undertaking, the cost of building and operating the Gigafactory could exceed our current expectations and the Gigafactory may take longer to bring online than we anticipate. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which also includes discussion of Recent Accounting Pronouncements that may impact us. 25 Results of Operations Revenues Automotive revenue includes revenues related to deliveries of new Model S and Model X vehicles, including internet connectivity, Supercharging access, and specified software updates for cars equipped with Autopilot hardware, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers, amortization of revenue for cars sold with resale value guarantees, and Model S leasing revenue. Services and other revenue consists of sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other manufacturers, maintenance and development services, Tesla Energy products, and pre-owned Tesla vehicles. Automotive revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $1.03 billion, an increase from $893.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase was primarily driven by Model X deliveries and an increase in the active population of cars subject to lease accounting. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, automotive revenue includes $124.2 million from the accretion of the deferred revenues from our resale value guarantee and other similar programs, as well as Model S leasing, an increase from $53.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 as a result of a greater number of resale value guarantees. Service and other revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $121.0 million, an increase from $46.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, related primarily to increases in pre-owned vehicle sales, Tesla Energy sales, and maintenance service revenue. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, royalty fees, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $779.3 million, an increase from $631.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in cost of automotive revenues was driven primarily by increased Model X deliveries. In the three months ended March 31, 2016, we recognized $62.3 million in cost of automotive revenues related to cars accounted for as operating leases. In the three months ended March 31, 2015, we recognized $31.4 million in cost of automotive revenues related to cars accounted for as operating leases. Cost of services and other revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $115.3 million, an increase from $48.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in cost of services and other revenues was driven primarily by greater pre-owned vehicle sales, Tesla Energy sales, maintenance services sales. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $252.5 million, a decrease from $260.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was 22.0%, a decrease of 5.7% from the three months ended March 31, 2015. The lower gross margin was primarily due to product mix shift, as a greater percentage of sales were derived from Model X and from Model S vehicle models with lower average selling prices, partially offset by higher ZEV credits revenue. This margin decrease was also offset by an increasing amount of revenues from vehicles accounted for as leases including direct lease vehicles and those under our resale value guarantee programs which have a significantly higher gross margin and from material cost savings. Services and other gross margin improved year over year, primarily driven by a mix shift away from lower margin powertrain sales to Daimler. Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in R&D expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. 26 R&D expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $182.5 million, an increase from $167.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The increase in R&D expenses consisted primarily of a $29.2 million increase in e mployee compensation expenses and a $21.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to increased headcount and increasing values of awards granted , partially offset by a $20.4 million decrease in expensed materials related to our Model X development . Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. SG&A expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $318.2 million, an increase from $195.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. SG&A expenses increased primarily from higher headcount and costs, including stock based compensation, to support an expanded retail, service and Supercharger footprint as well as the general growth of the business. The increase in our SG&A expenses consisted primarily of a $53.3 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $25.0 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to increased headcount, increased likelihood of achieving operational milestones under performance awards, and increased fair value of awards granted, and a $32.9 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business as well as sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $40.6 million, as compared to $26.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase as compared to the same period in the prior year was due to an increase in interest expense on vehicles sales that we account for as collateralized borrowing, as well as increased interest expense on build-to-suite leases, and on higher balances of outstanding debt. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Other income (expense) was $9.2 million and ($22.3) million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Fluctuations in other income (expense) are primarily the result of unrealized gains (losses) from foreign currency exchange of $9.4 million and ($28.0) million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 related to euro, Chinese renminbi, Norwegian krone, British pound, Swiss franc, and Canadian dollar. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $3.8 million, compared to $3.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increases in the provision for income taxes were due primarily to an increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2016, we had $1.44 billion in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents including $757.9 million of money market funds. This balance also reflects $565.0 million drawn under our asset based line of credit. As of April 30, 2016, we had repaid $350.0 million under our asset based line, leaving $215.0 million outstanding. The cash and cash equivalents balance as of March 31, 2016, does not include cash inflow for Model 3 reservations that were recorded in accounts receivable from our credit card banking partners as of the end of the quarter, the cash inflow from for Model 3 reservations received after the end of the quarter, and cash payments for vehicles in transit to customers as of the end of the quarter. Amounts held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $446.2 million as of March 31, 2016, and consisted primarily of euro, Danish krone, Norwegian krone, Swedish krona, Canadian dollar, and Japanese yen . 27 Sources of cash are p redominately from our deliveries of vehicles, as well as customer deposits, sales of regulatory credits, proceeds from financing activities, sales of Tesla Energy products, and non-warranty repair and maintenance services. We expect that our current source s of liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents, together with our current projections of cash flow from operating activities, will provide us with adequate liquidity based on our current plans through at least the end of the current fiscal year. These current sources of liquidity and cash flows enable us to fund our ongoing operations and research and development projects, the initial investments in tooling and manufacturing capital for our planned Model 3; investments required to continue to ramp up p roduction of Model X and Model S; the continued construction of our Gigafactory; and the expansion of our retail stores, service centers and Supercharger network. We have decided to advance our 500,000 total unit build plan by two years to 2018, which is approximately double our prior growth plan. Given this plan, we are currently in the process of evaluating our capital expenditure needs, but expect it will be approximately 50% higher than the $1.5 billion we previously estimated for the full year of 201 6. In 2015, we entered into the senior secured asset-based revolving Credit Agreement with a syndicate of banks. Our drawdowns are subject to certain conditions, including a borrowing limit of the lesser of (1) the current total commitment amount of $1 billion and (2) the value of the secured assets as determined monthly pursuant to the Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2016, the value of the secured assets was the limiting factor in our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement. Borrowed funds bear interest, at the Companys option, at an annual rate of (a) 1% plus LIBOR or (b) the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the lenders prime rate or (iii) 1% plus LIBOR. When market conditions are favorable, we may evaluate alternatives to pursue liquidity options to fund capital intensive initiatives. Should prevailing economic, financial, business or other factors adversely affect our ability to meet our operating cash requirements, we could be required to obtain funding though traditional or alternative sources of financing. We cannot be certain that additional funds would be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Summary of Cash Flows (in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (249,605 ) $ (131,794 ) Net cash used in investing activities (233,819 ) (432,344 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 715,435 186,156 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as manufacturing, research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Our operating cash inflows include cash from sales of our vehicles, customer deposits for Model S and Model X, sales of regulatory credits, sales of powertrain components and systems, and Tesla Energy products. These cash inflows are offset by payments we make to our suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, employee compensation, operating leases and interest expense on our financings. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, cash provided by (used in) operating activities was ($249.6) million and ($131.8) million. The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to an increase in operating lease vehicles, partially offset by proceeds from vehicle sales, including those with residual value guarantees. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S and Model X manufacturing equipment and tooling and our stores, service centers and Supercharger network infrastructure. Cash used in investing activities was $233.8 million and $432.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Cash flows from investing activities and variability between each year related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $216.9 million and $426.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. In 2014, we began construction of our Gigafactory facility in Nevada. Teslas contribution to total capital expenditures are expected to be about $2.0 billion. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 we used cash of $51.8 million towards Gigafactory construction and expect to spend a total of approximately $520.0 million during 2016. 28 Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, net cash provided by financing activities was $715.4 million and $186.2 million. Cash flows from financing activities consisted primarily of draws under our asset backed or warehouse credit lines of $430.0 million and $77.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 and proceeds received from vehicle sales to our bank leasing partners of $245.6 million and $78.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. 0.25% and 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes and Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions In 2014, we issued $920.0 million principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 Notes) and $1.38 billion principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 Notes) in a public offering. The total net proceeds from these offerings, after deducting transaction costs, were approximately $905.8 million from 2019 Notes and $1.36 billion from 2021 Notes. The interest rates are fixed at 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for the 2019 and 2021 Notes and are payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on September 1, 2014. In connection with the offering of these notes in 2014, we purchased convertible note hedges for an aggregate $603.4 million and sold warrants for an aggregate $389.2 million. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of warrants are intended to reduce potential dilution and/or offset potential cash payments upon the conversion of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes. During the first quarter of 2016, the closing price of our common stock did not meet or exceed 130% of the applicable conversion price of our 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes on at least 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of the quarter; furthermore, no other conditions allowing holders of these notes to convert have been met as of March 31, 2016. Therefore, the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes are not convertible during the second quarter of 2016 and are classified as long-term debt. Should the closing price conditions be met in the second quarter of 2016 or a future quarter, the 2019 Notes and/or the 2021 Notes will be convertible at their holders option during the immediately following quarter. 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes and Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions In May 2013, we issued $660.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% convertible senior notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes) in a public offering. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting transaction costs, were approximately $648.0 million. The interest under the 2018 Notes is fixed at 1.50% per annum and is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 2013. In connection with the offering of the 2018 Notes, we purchased convertible note hedges for an aggregate $177.5 million and sold warrants for an aggregate $120.3 million. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of warrants are intended to reduce potential dilution and/or offset potential cash payments upon the conversion of the 2018 Notes. During the first quarter of 2016, the closing price of our common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price of our 2018 Notes on at least 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of the quarter; therefore, holders of 2018 Notes may convert their notes during the second quarter of 2016. As such, we classified the $617.1 million carrying value of our 2018 Notes as current liabilities and classified $42.6 million, representing the difference between the aggregate principal of our 2018 Notes of $659.8 million and the carrying value of 2018 Notes, as mezzanine equity on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2016. Should the closing price conditions be met in the second quarter of 2016 or a future quarter, the 2018 Notes will be convertible at their holders option during the immediately following quarter. For more information on the 2018 Notes, 2019 Notes, and 2021 Notes see Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Contractual Obligations We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties, including certain debt financing arrangements and leases, primarily for stores, service centers, certain manufacturing and corporate offices. These also include, as part of our normal business practices, contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services and capacity reservation contracts. There have been no other material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2016, from the contractual obligations disclosed in Part II, Item 7, Contractual Obligations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 29 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. I TEM 3.