Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (in thousands, except per share data). Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 (1) 2015 2014 2013 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Total revenues $ 11,758,751 $ 7,000,132 $ 4,046,025 $ 3,198,356 $ 2,013,496 Gross profit $ 2,222,487 $ 1,599,257 $ 923,503 $ 881,671 $ 456,262 Loss from operations $ (1,632,086 ) $ (667,340 ) $ (716,629 ) $ (186,689 ) $ (61,283 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (1,961,400 ) $ (674,914 ) $ (888,663 ) $ (294,040 ) $ (74,014 ) Net loss per share of common stock attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (11.83 ) $ (4.68 ) $ (6.93 ) $ (2.36 ) $ (0.62 ) Weighted average shares used in computing net loss per share of common stock, basic and diluted 165,758 144,212 128,202 124,539 119,421 (1) We acquired SolarCity on November 21, 2016. SolarCitys results of operations have been included in our results of operations from the acquisition date. See Note 3, Business Combinations, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this transaction. As of December 31, 2017 2016 (1) 2015 2014 2013 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working (deficit) capital $ (1,104,150 ) $ 432,791 $ (29,029 ) $ 1,072,907 $ 585,665 Total assets 28,655,372 22,664,076 8,067,939 5,830,667 2,411,186 Total long-term obligations 15,348,310 10,923,162 4,125,915 2,753,595 1,069,535 (1) We acquired SolarCity on November 21, 2016. SolarCitys financial positions have been included in our financial positions from the acquisition date. See Note 3, Business Combinations, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this transaction. 38 I TEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview and 2017 Highlights Our mission is to accelerate the worlds transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation and other services related to our products. Automotive Our production vehicle fleet includes our Model S premium sedan and our Model X sport utility vehicle, which are our highest-performance vehicles, and our Model 3, a lower priced sedan designed for the mass market which we began to produce and deliver in the second half of 2017. We continue to enhance our vehicle offerings with enhanced autopilot options, Internet connectivity and free over-the-air software updates to provide additional safety, convenience and performance features. In addition, we have several future electric vehicles in our product pipeline, including those we unveiled in 2017 an electric semi-truck and a new version of the Tesla Roadster . In 2017, our vehicle production capability continued to scale and gain operational efficiencies, and vehicle production volume increased by 20% year-over-year. Additionally, we delivered 101,420 Model S and Model X vehicles and 1,764 Model 3 vehicles in 2017. Energy Generation and Storage We lease and sell solar energy systems and sell renewable energy and energy storage products to our customers. We have partnered with Panasonic to provide capital and operational support to manufacture PV cells, thus enabling high volume integrated tile and PV cell production at our Gigafactory 2 in Buffalo, New York. We also recently commenced Solar Roof production at Gigafactory 2. Our energy storage products, which we manufacture at Gigafactory 1, consist of Powerwall mostly for residential applications and Powerpack for commercial, industrial and utility-scale applications. In late 2017, we completed installation of the largest battery in the world in South Australia. This battery delivers electricity during peak hours to help maintain the reliable operation of South Australias electrical infrastructure. In 2017, we deployed 358 MWh of energy storage products and 523 MW of solar energy generation. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks and 2018 Outlook Automotive Demand, Production and Deliveries We drive demand for our vehicles by continually improving our vehicles through over-the-air software updates, expanding our retail, service and charging infrastructure, and by periodically developing and introducing new passenger and commercial electric vehicle variants and models. Our goal is to become the best manufacturer in the automotive industry, and having cutting edge robotic expertise in-house is at the core of that goal. Our recent acquisitions of advanced automation companies have added to our talent base and are helping us increase vehicle production rates more effectively. The worldwide automotive market for alternative fuel vehicles and self-driving technology are highly competitive and we expect them to become even more so. Many companies including established automakers have announced plans to expand, and in some cases fully transition to, production of electric or environmentally friendly vehicles, and to also develop self-driving technologies. We welcome the acceleration of the worlds transition to sustainable transport. Nonetheless, we believe that the unique features of our vehicles, our constant innovation, our growing brand, the increased affordability introduced with Model 3, our global Supercharger network and our future vehicles, will continue to generate incremental demand for our vehicles by making our vehicles accessible to larger and previously untapped consumer and commercial markets. 39 We expect Model S and Model X deliveries to be approximately 100,000 in total in 2018 , constrained by the supply of cells with the 18650 form factor used in those vehicles . As our sales network continues to expand to new markets in 2018, we believe vehicle orders should continue to grow . With demand outpacing production, we plan to optimize the trim and option mix in order to optimize revenue and gross margin. W e have made significant and sustained progress in the production processes of Model S and Model X , and we will continue to improve manufacturing efficiencies for these vehicles in 2018. We expect Model 3 production and deliveries to grow significantly in 2018. The initial phase of manufacturing any new vehicle is always challenging, and the Model 3 production ramp has been no exception, particularly given our focus on highly automated manufacturing processes, that we expect will ultimately result in higher volumes at significantly lower costs. Model 3 volume production has been less than we initially anticipated due to production bottlenecks, with the battery module assembly line at Gigafactory 1 being the primary production constraint to date, although future bottlenecks in other areas of vehicle manufacturing may surface. We have redirected our best engineering talent to Gigafactory 1 to fine-tune the automated processes and related robotic programming not only to address the challenges we have experienced but also to continue evaluating our overall manufacturing process for efficiencies. Based on our current progress, we are targeting a production rate of 2,500 Model 3 vehicles per week by the end of the first quarter of 2018 and 5,000 Model 3 vehicles per week by the end of the second quarter. It is important to note that while these are the levels we are focused on hitting and we have plans in place to achieve them, our prior experience on the Model 3 ramp has demonstrated the difficulty of accurately forecasting specific production rates at specific points in time. We are systematically addressing bottlenecks and adding capacity and resources in places like the battery module line where we have experienced constraints, and these actions should result in our Model 3 production rate significantly increasing during the first half of 2018. In some cases, we may not achieve the manufacturing labor efficiencies until we ramp up to fully automated manufacturing lines, which may take us longer than anticipated. In order to optimize the incremental improvement of our automation processes and the efficiency of our capital expenditures, we will implement the capacity to further ramp production to 10,000 units per week only after we have achieved a 5,000 units per week run rate. We are also making strides in other aspects of our vehicle production, deliveries and customer infrastructure. For example, we expect to continue to lower the cost of manufacturing our vehicles due to economies of scale, material cost reductions and more efficient manufacturing and equipment utilization. We have achieved cost improvements through material cost reductions from both engineering and commercial actions and increased manufacturing efficiencies including better inventory control for Model S and Model X. We have also seen improved product reliability in our vehicles, batteries and drive units. Likewise, we may experience infrastructure constraints and customer experience issues relating to vehicle deliveries, but are trying to address such issues by opening additional delivery and service centers to scale the volume of vehicles we are able to deliver. Generally, as sales of Tesla vehicles ramp in 2018, we plan to continue to open new Tesla retail, locations, service centers and delivery hubs around the world, we plan continue to expand our mobile repair services, and we plan to significantly increase the number of Superchargers and Destination Charging connectors globally with the goal of remaining ahead of the Model 3 ramp. We are also making progress with our self-driving technology. An overhaul of the underlying architecture of our software has been completed, which has enabled a step-change improvement in the collection and analysis of data and fundamentally enhanced its machine learning capabilities. The aggregate of such data and learnings, which we refer to as our neural net, is able to collect and analyze more high-quality data than ever before, enabling us to rollout a series of new autopilot features in 2018 and beyond. Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment We are continuing to reduce customer acquisition costs of our energy generation products, including by cutting advertising spend and increasingly selling these products in Tesla stores with dedicated energy product sales personnel and leveraging channel partnerships. Moreover, we have deemphasized absolute volume growth for our solar products, and we have instead prioritized projects for cash generation and profitability. Solar Roof installations will initially ramp slowly in the first half of 2018. As Solar Roof is truly the first-of-its-kind and there is significant complexity in both its manufacturing and installation, we are deliberately ramping production at a gradual pace to 40 ensure reliability and a great customer experience. With demand outpacing production, we expect our backlog to remain in excess of one year for the next several quarters. We expect energy storage products to experience significant growth, with our aim being to at least triple our sales in 2018. We are ramping up production for these products at our Gigafactory 1 over the next several quarters, but demand is greater than our current production capacity for energy storage. We expect energy generation and storage gross margin to improve significantly in 2018 as we enter the year with a backlog of higher-margin commercial solar projects and a more profitable energy storage business due to overall cost and manufacturing efficiencies from scaling. Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses Capital expenditures in 2018 are projected to be slightly more than 2017, with the majority of the spending to support increases in Model 3 production capacity at Gigafactory 1 and the Tesla Factory, and for building additional stores, service centers and Superchargers. We expect operating expenses to grow in 2018 as compared to 2017, although operating expenses should decrease significantly as a percentage of revenue due to the significant increase in expected revenue in 2018 and as we focus on increasing operational efficiency. The growth in operating expense will mainly be driven by engineering, design and testing of new products or changes to existing products and higher sales and service costs associated with expanding our worldwide geographic presence. In addition, we expect operating expenses to increase as a result of increased selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by our energy generation and storage business. We are seeking stockholder approval for a new 10-year CEO performance award for Elon Musk with vesting contingent on achieving market capitalization and operational milestones. If Tesla stockholders approve the award, we would incur significant additional stock-based compensation expense over the term of the award as each performance milestone becomes probable of vesting. Automotive Financing Options We offer loans and leases for our vehicles in certain markets in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offered resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to all direct customers who purchase vehicles and who financed their vehicle through one of our specified commercial banking partners. Subsequent to June 30, 2016, this program is available only in certain international markets. Resale value guarantees available for exercise within the 12 months following December 31, 2017 totaled $ 375.7 million in value. We plan to adopt the new revenue recognition standard ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018. This will impact the way we account for vehicle sales with a resale value guarantee and vehicles leased through our leasing partners, which now will qualify to be accounted for as sales with a right of return. In addition, for certain vehicles sales with a resale value guarantee and vehicles leased through leasing partners prior to 2018, we will cease recognizing lease revenue starting in 2018 and record the associated cumulative adjustment to equity under the modified retrospective approach. Vehicle deliveries with the resale value guarantee do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. While we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, if a customer exercises the option to return the vehicle to us, we are exposed to liquidity risk that the resale value of vehicles under these programs may be lower than our guarantee, or the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates or we may be unable to resell the used cars in a timely manner, all of which could adversely impact our cash flows. Through 2017, we only had an insignificant number of customers who exercised their resale value guarantees and returned their vehicles to us. Based on current market demand for our cars, we estimate the resale prices for our vehicles will continue to be above our resale value guarantee amounts. Should market values of our vehicles or customer demand decrease, these estimates may be impacted materially. We currently offer vehicle leases in the U.S. for Model S and Model X directly from Tesla Finance, our captive financing entity, as well as through leasing partners. Leasing through Tesla Finance is available in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We also offer financing arrangements through our entities in Canada, Germany and the 41 United Kingdom. Leasing through our captive financing entities and our leasing partners exposes us to residual value risk . In addition, for leases offered directly from our captive financing entities , we assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expanding our financing offerings, including our lease financing options and the financial sources to support them, and to support the overall financing needs of our customers. To the extent that we are unable to arrange such options for our customers on terms that are attractive, our sales, financial results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Energy Generation and Storage Financing Options We offer our customers the choice to either purchase and own solar energy systems or to purchase the energy that our solar energy systems produce through various contractual arrangements. These contractual arrangements include long-term leases and power purchase agreements. In both structures, we install our solar energy systems at our customers premises and charge the customer a monthly fee. In the lease structure, this monthly payment is fixed with a minimum production guarantee. In the power purchase agreement structure, we charge customers a fee per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, based on the amount of electricity the solar energy system actually produces. The leases and power purchase agreements are typically for 20 years with a renewal option, and generally when there is no upfront prepayment, the specified monthly fees are subject to annual escalations. For customers who want to purchase and own solar energy systems, we also offer solar loans, whereby a third-party lender provides financing directly to a qualified customer to enable the customer to purchase and own a solar energy system designed, installed and serviced by us. We enter into a standard solar energy system sale and installation agreement with the customer. Separately, the customer enters into a loan agreement with a third-party lender, who finances the full purchase price. We are not a party to the loan agreement between the customer and the third-party lender, and the third-party lender has no recourse against us with respect to the loan. Gigafactory 1 We continue to develop Gigafactory 1 as a facility where we work together with our suppliers to integrate production of battery material, cells, modules, battery packs and drive units in one location for vehicles and energy storage products. We also continue to invest in the future expansion of Gigafactory 1 and in production equipment for battery cell, module and pack production. Panasonic has partnered with us on Gigafactory 1 with investments in the production equipment that it uses to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment at negotiated prices. As these terms convey to us the right to use, as defined in ASC 840, Leases , their production equipment, we consider them to be leased assets when production commences. This results in us recording the value of their production equipment within property, plant and equipment, net, on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding liability recorded to financing obligations. For all suppliers and partners for which we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment located at Gigafactory 1, we will apply similar accounting. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded $473.3 million on the consolidated balance sheet. While we currently believe that our progress at Gigafactory 1 will allow us to reach our production targets, our ultimate ability to do so will require us to resolve the types of challenges that are typical of a production ramp. For example, we have experienced bottlenecks in the assembly of battery modules at Gigafactory 1, which has negatively affected our production of Model 3. While we continue to make progress to resolve such issues at Gigafactory 1, given the size and complexity of this undertaking, it is possible that future events could result in the cost of building and operating Gigafactory 1 exceeding our current expectations and Gigafactory 1 taking longer to expand than we currently anticipate. Gigafactory 2 We have an agreement with the SUNY Foundation for the construction of a factory capable of producing at least 1.0 gigawatts of solar cells annually in Buffalo, New York, referred to as Gigafactory 2. In December 2016, we entered into an agreement with Panasonic under which it will manufacture custom PV cells and modules for us, primarily at Gigafactory 2, and we will purchase certain quantities of PV cells and modules from Panasonic during the 10-year term. 42 The terms of our agreement with the SUNY Foundation require us to comply with a number of covenants, and any failure to comply with these covenants could obligate us to pay significant amounts to the SUNY Foundation and result in termination of the agreement. Although we remain on track with our progress at Gigafactory 2, our expectations as to the cost of building the facility, acquiring manufacturing equipment and supporting our manufacturing operations may prove incorrect, which could subject us to significant expenses to achieve the desired benefits. Other Manufacturing In addition, we continue to expand production capacity at our Tesla Factory and are exploring additional production capacity in Asia and Europe. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating the consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue for products and services when: (i) a persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred and there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; (iii) pricing or fees are fixed or determinable and (iv) collection is reasonably assured. Automotive Segment Automotive revenue includes revenues related to deliveries of new vehicles, sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers and specific other elements that meet the definition of a deliverable under multiple-element accounting guidance, including free internet connectivity, free access to our Supercharger network and future free over-the-air software updates. These other elements are valued on a stand-alone basis, and we recognize their revenue over our performance period, which is generally the eight-year life of the vehicle, except for internet connectivity, which is over the free four-year period. If we sell a deliverable separately, we use that pricing to determine its fair value; otherwise, we use our best estimated selling price by considering costs used to develop and deliver the service, third-party pricing of similar options and other information that may be available. At the time of revenue recognition, we record a reserve against revenue for estimated future product returns. Such estimates are based on historical experience and were immaterial in all periods presented. In addition, any fees that are paid or payable by us to a customers lender, when we arrange the financing, would be recognized as an offset against automotive sales revenue, in accordance with ASC 605-50, Customer Payments and Incentives . Automotive leasing revenue includes revenue recognized under lease accounting guidance for our direct leasing programs as well as programs with resale value guarantees. See Vehicle sales to customers with a resale value guarantee, Vehicle sales to leasing partners with a resale value guarantee and Direct Vehicle Leasing Program for further details. Service and other revenue consists of repair and maintenance services, service plans, merchandise, sales of used Tesla vehicles, sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other manufacturers and sales of non-Tesla vehicle trade-ins. 43 Vehicle sales to customers with a resale value guarantee Prior to June 30, 2016, we offered resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to all customers who purchased vehicles and who financed their vehicles through one of our specified commercial banking partners. Since June 30, 2016, this program is available only in certain international markets. Under this program, customers have the option of selling their vehicle back to us during the guarantee period, which currently is generally at the end of the term of the applicable loan or financing program, for a determined resale value. Although we receive full payment for the vehicle sales price at the time of delivery, we are required to account for these transactions as operating leases. The amount of sale proceeds equal to the resale value guarantee is deferred until the guarantee expires or is exercised. The remaining sale proceeds are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the stated guarantee period to automotive leasing revenue. The guarantee period expires at the earlier of the end of the guarantee period or the pay-off of the initial loan. We capitalize the cost of these vehicles on the consolidated balance sheet as operating lease vehicles, net, and depreciate their value, less salvage value, to cost of automotive leasing revenue over the same period. In cases where a customer retains ownership of a vehicle at the end of the guarantee period, the resale value guarantee liability and any remaining deferred revenue balances related to the vehicle are settled to automotive leasing revenue, and the net book value of the leased vehicle is expensed to cost of automotive leasing revenue. If a customer returns the vehicle to us during the guarantee period, we purchase the vehicle from the customer in an amount equal to the resale value guarantee and settle any remaining deferred balances to automotive leasing revenue, and we reclassify the net book value of the vehicle on the consolidated balance sheet to used vehicle inventory. Vehicle sales to leasing partners with a resale value guarantee We also offer resale value guarantees in connection with automobile sales to certain leasing partners. As we have guaranteed the value of these vehicles and as the vehicles are leased to end-customers, we account for these transactions as interest bearing collateralized borrowings as required under ASC 840. Under this program, cash is received for the full price of the vehicle and is recorded within resale value guarantees for the long-term portion and deferred revenue for the current portion. We accrete the deferred revenue amount to automotive leasing revenue on a straight-line basis over the guarantee period and accrue interest expense based on our borrowing rate. We capitalize vehicles under this program to operating lease vehicles, net, on the consolidated balance sheet, and we record depreciation from these vehicles to cost of automotive leasing revenue during the period the vehicle is under a lease arrangement. Cash received for these vehicles, net of revenue recognized during the period, is classified as collateralized lease borrowings within cash flows from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. At the end of the lease term, we settle our liability in cash by either purchasing the vehicle from the leasing partner for the resale value guarantee amount or paying a shortfall to the guarantee amount the leasing partner may realize on the sale of the vehicle. Any remaining balances within deferred revenue and resale value guarantee will be settled to automotive leasing revenue. In cases where the leasing partner retains ownership of the vehicle after the end of our guarantee period, we expense the net value of the leased vehicle to cost of automotive leasing revenue. On a quarterly basis, we assess the estimated market values of vehicles under our resale value guarantee program to determine if we have sustained a loss on any of these contracts. As we accumulate more data related to the resale values of our vehicles or as market conditions change, there may be material changes to their estimated values. Direct Vehicle Leasing Program We offer a vehicle leasing program in certain locations in the North America and Europe. Qualifying customers are permitted to lease a vehicle directly from Tesla for up to 48 months. At the end of the lease term, customers have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing if for a pre-determined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases, and we recognize leasing revenues on a straight-line basis over the contractual term and record the depreciation of these vehicles to cost of automotive leasing revenue. 44 Maintenance and Service Plans We offer a prepaid maintenance program for our vehicles, which includes plans covering maintenance for up to four years or up to 50,000 miles, provided these services are purchased within a specified period of time. The maintenance plans cover annual inspections and the replacement of wear and tear parts, excluding tires and the battery. Payments collected in advance of the performance of service are initially recorded in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet and recognized in automotive sales as we fulfill our performance obligations. We also offer an extended service plan, which covers the repair or replacement of vehicle parts for an additional four years or up to an additional 50,000 miles, after the end of our initial New Vehicle Limited Warranty, provided they are purchased within a specified period of time. Payments collected in advance of the performance of service are initially recorded in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet and recognized in automotive sales ratably over the service coverage periods. Energy Generation and Storage Segment For solar energy systems and components sales wherein customers pay the full purchase price, either directly or through the solar loan program, revenue is recognized when we install a solar energy system and the solar energy system passes inspection by the utility or the authority having jurisdiction, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. In instances where there are multiple deliverables in a single arrangement, we allocate the arrangement consideration to the various elements in the arrangement based on the relative selling price method. Costs incurred on residential installations before the solar energy systems are completed are included in inventories as work-in-progress in the consolidated balance sheet. However, any fees that are paid or payable by us to a solar loan lender would be recognized as an offset against energy generation and storage revenue, in accordance with ASC 605-50, Customer Payments and Incentives . Revenue from an energy storage product sale is recognized when the product has been delivered, installed and accepted by the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. For revenue arrangements where we are the lessor under operating lease agreements for solar energy systems, including energy storage products, we record lease revenue from minimum lease payments, including upfront rebates and incentives earned from such systems, on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease term, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. For incentives that are earned based on the amount of electricity generated by the system, we record revenue as the amounts are earned. The difference between the payments received and the revenue recognized is recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet. For solar energy systems where customers purchase electricity from us under PPAs, we have determined that these agreements should be accounted for, in substance, as operating leases pursuant to ASC 840. Revenue is recognized based on the amount of electricity delivered at rates specified under the contracts, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We record as deferred revenue any amounts that are collected from customers, including lease prepayments, in excess of revenue recognized. Deferred revenue also includes the portion of rebates and incentives received from utility companies and various local and state government agencies, which are recognized as revenue over the lease term, as well as the fees charged for remote monitoring service, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the respective customer contract term. We capitalize initial direct costs from the origination of solar energy system leases or PPAs (i.e. the incremental cost of contract administration, referral fees and sales commissions) as an element of solar energy systems, leased and to be leased, net, and subsequently amortize these costs over the term of the related lease or PPA. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using standard cost for vehicles and energy storage products, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. In addition, cost for solar energy systems are recorded using actual cost. We record inventory write-downs for excess or obsolete inventories based upon assumptions about on current and future demand forecasts. If our inventory on-hand is in excess of our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written-off. 45 We also review our inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the estimated cost to convert the inventory on-hand into a finished product. Once inventory is written-down, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change, additional and potentially material increases to this reserve may be required. A small change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. Warranties We provide a manufacturers warranty on all new and used vehicles, production powertrain components and systems and energy products we sell. In addition, we also provide a warranty on the installation and components of the solar energy systems we sell for periods typically between 10 to 30 years. We accrue a warranty reserve for the products sold by us, which includes our best estimate of the projected costs to repair or replace items under warranty. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of future claims. These estimates are inherently uncertain given our relatively short history of sales, and changes to our historical or projected warranty experience may cause material changes to the warranty reserve in the future. The warranty reserve does not include projected warranty costs associated with our vehicles subject to lease accounting and our solar energy systems under lease contracts or PPAs, as the costs to repair these warranty claims are expensed as incurred. The portion of the warranty reserve expected to be incurred within the next 12 months is included within accrued liabilities and other while the remaining balance is included within other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Warranty expense is recorded as a component of cost of revenue. Stock-Based Compensation We use the fair value method of accounting for our stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) granted to employees and our employee stock purchase plan (the ESPP) to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the stock-based awards. The fair value of stock options and ESPP is estimated on the grant or offering date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. These inputs are subjective and generally require significant judgment. The fair value of RSUs is measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our common stock. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards, usually the vesting period, which is generally four years for stock options and RSUs and six months for the ESPP. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of actual forfeitures in the period (prior to 2017, net of estimated projected forfeitures). For performance-based awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the expected performance achievement period of individual performance milestones when the achievement of each individual performance milestone becomes probable. For performance-based awards with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of both performance and market conditions, stock-based compensation expense is recognized for each pair of performance and market conditions over the longer of the expected achievement period of the performance and market conditions, beginning at the point in time that the relevant performance condition is considered probable of achievement. The fair value of such awards is estimated on the grant date using Monte Carlo simulations. As we accumulate additional employee stock-based awards data over time and as we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate significantly different volatilities and expected lives, which could materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in cost of revenue, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense. Income Taxes We are subject to federal and state taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We make these estimates and judgments about our future taxable income that are based on assumptions that are consistent with our future plans. Tax laws, regulations, and 46 administrative practices may be subject to change due to economic or political conditions including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., many countries in the European Union and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded a full valuation allowance on our net U.S. deferred tax assets because we expect that it is more likely than not that our U.S. deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of our valuation allowance could be materially impacted. Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result, we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that those positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are required to file income tax returns in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our consideration is adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a change in estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The eventual impact on our income tax expense depends in part if we still have a valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets in the period that such determination is made. On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a federal corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. We are required to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment, such as re-measuring our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as reassessing the net realizability of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Tax Act did not give rise to any material impact on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations due to our historical worldwide loss position and the full valuation allowance on our net U.S. deferred tax assets. In December 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date. Since the Tax Act was enacted late in the fourth quarter of 2017 (and ongoing guidance and accounting interpretations are expected over the next 12 months), we consider the accounting of deferred tax re-measurements and other items, such as state tax considerations, to be incomplete due to the forthcoming guidance and our ongoing analysis of final year-end data and tax positions. We expect to complete our analysis within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118. We do not expect any subsequent adjustments to have any material impact on the consolidated balance sheets or statements of operations due to our historical worldwide loss position and the full valuation allowance on our net U.S. deferred tax assets. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements reflect our accounts and operations and those of our subsidiaries in which we have a controlling financial interest. In accordance with the provisions of ASC 810, Consolidation , we consolidate any variable interest entity (VIE) of which we are the primary beneficiary. We form VIEs with our financing fund investors in the ordinary course of business in order to facilitate the funding and monetization of certain attributes associated with our solar energy systems. The typical condition for a controlling financial interest ownership is holding a majority of the voting interests of an entity; however, a controlling financial interest may also exist in entities, such as VIEs, through arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests. ASC 810 requires a variable interest holder to consolidate a VIE if that party has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIEs economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. We do not consolidate a VIE in which we have a majority ownership interest when we are not 47 considered the primary beneficiary. We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of a number of VIEs. We evaluate our relationships with all the VIEs on an ongoing basis to ensure that we continue to be the primary beneficiary. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated upon consolidation. Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests represent third-party interests in the net assets under certain funding arrangements, or funds, that we enter into to finance the costs of solar energy systems and vehicles under operating leases. We have determined that the contractual provisions of the funds represent substantive profit sharing arrangements. We have further determined that the appropriate methodology for calculating the noncontrolling interest and redeemable noncontrolling interest balances that reflects the substantive profit sharing arrangements is a balance sheet approach using the hypothetical liquidation at book value (HLBV) method. We, therefore, determine the amount of the noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in the net assets of the funds at each balance sheet date using the HLBV method, which is presented on the consolidated balance sheet as noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries. Under the HLBV method, the amounts reported as noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheet represent the amounts the third-parties would hypothetically receive at each balance sheet date under the liquidation provisions of the funds, assuming the net assets of the funds were liquidated at their recorded amounts determined in accordance with GAAP and with tax laws effective at the balance sheet date and distributed to the third-parties. The third-parties interests in the results of operations of the funds are determined as the difference in the noncontrolling interest and redeemable noncontrolling interest balances in the consolidated balance sheets between the start and end of each reporting period, after taking into account any capital transactions between the funds and the third-parties. However, the redeemable noncontrolling interest balance is at least equal to the redemption amount. The redeemable noncontrolling interest balance is presented as temporary equity in the mezzanine section of the consolidated balance sheet since these third-parties have the right to redeem their interests in the funds for cash or other assets. Business Combinations We account for business acquisitions under ASC 805, Business Combinations . The total purchase consideration for an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets (including intangible assets), liabilities assumed (including contingent liabilities) and noncontrolling interests in an acquisition are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. We recognize goodwill if the fair value of the total purchase consideration and any noncontrolling interests is in excess of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. We recognize a bargain purchase gain within other income (expense), net, on the consolidated statement of operations if the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed is in excess of the fair value of the total purchase consideration and any noncontrolling interests. We include the results of operations of the acquired business in the consolidated financial statements beginning on the acquisition date. When determining such fair values, we make significant estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from the underlying assets and discount rates. Our estimate of fair values is based on assumptions believed to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. As a result, actual results may differ from our estimates. Furthermore, our estimates might change as additional information becomes available, as more fully discussed in Note 3, Business Combinations , included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 48 Results of Operations Revenues Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Automotive sales $ 8,534,752 $ 5,589,007 $ 3,431,587 $ 2,945,745 53 % $ 2,157,420 63 % Automotive leasing 1,106,548 761,759 309,386 344,789 45 % 452,373 146 % Total automotive revenues 9,641,300 6,350,766 3,740,973 3,290,534 52 % 2,609,793 70 % Services and other 1,001,185 467,972 290,575 533,213 114 % 177,397 61 % Total automotive & services and other segment revenue 10,642,485 6,818,738 4,031,548 3,823,747 56 % 2,787,190 69 % Energy generation and storage segment revenue 1,116,266 181,394 14,477 934,872 515 % 166,917 1153 % Total revenues $ 11,758,751 $ 7,000,132 $ 4,046,025 $ 4,758,619 68 % $ 2,954,107 73 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to sale of new Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles, including internet connectivity, Supercharger access, and specified software updates for cars equipped with autopilot hardware, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for Model S and Model X vehicles sold with resale value guarantees accounted for as operating leases under lease accounting. We do not yet offer leasing for Model 3 vehicles. Services and other revenue consists of maintenance services, sales of used vehicles and sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other manufacturers. 2017 Compared to 2016 Automotive sales revenue increased $2.95 billion, or 53%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily related to a 58% increase in deliveries to 80,060 vehicles resulting from increased sales of Model S and Model X, at average selling prices that remained relatively consistent as compared to the prior period, as well as sales of 1,764 Model 3 vehicles since its launch in the third quarter of 2017. Additionally there was an increase of $58.0 million to $360.3 million in sales of regulatory credits offset partially by additional deferrals of autopilot 2.0 revenue in the year ended December 31, 2017. Automotive leasing revenue increased $344.8 million, or 45%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to an approximately 30% increase in the number of vehicles under leasing programs or programs with a resale value guarantee compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized an increase of $23.4 million of automotive leasing revenue upon early payoff and expiration of resale value guarantees as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Service and other revenue increased $533.2 million, or 114%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This was primarily due to an increase in used vehicle sales as a result of increased automotive sales as well as from the expansion of our trade-in program. Additionally, there was a $41.1 million increase from the inclusion of engineering service revenue from Grohmann, which we acquired on January 3, 2017, and a $68.4 million increase in maintenance services revenue as our fleet continued to grow during the year ended December 31, 2017. 49 2016 Compared to 2015 Automotive sales revenue increased $2.16 billion, or 63% to $5.59 billion during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily related to a 55% increase in vehicle deliveries to approximately 50,700. The increase in volume is primarily due to a full-year of Model X deliveries in 2016, as well as increased production and sales of Model S. Further, there was an overall increase in average selling price of 6% primarily due to the introduction of Model X which are higher priced vehicles compared to Model S. In addition, there is an increase of $133.4 million to $302.3 million of the sale of regulatory credits from the year ended December 31, 2015 to the corresponding period in 2016. These increases were partially offset by negative impact from the movement of foreign currency exchange rates. Automotive leasing revenue increased $452.4 million, or 146%, to $761.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily due to an 83% increase in cumulative vehicle deliveries under leasing programs and programs with a resale value guarantee from the year ended December 31, 2015 to the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized $112.6 million in automotive leasing revenue upon the expiration of resale value guarantees. Service and other revenue increased $177.4 million, or 61%, to $468.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase of $117.4 million in used vehicle sales as we received more trade-ins and an increase in maintenance service revenue of $66.6 million as our fleet continues to grow. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Energy generation and storage revenue includes sale of solar energy systems and energy storage products, leasing revenue from solar energy systems under operating leases and PPAs and the sale of solar energy systems incentives. 2017 Compared to 2016 Energy generation and storage revenue increased by $934.9 million, or 515%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, predominantly due to the inclusion of the full-year of revenue from our solar business, which we gained by acquiring SolarCity on November 21, 2016. 2016 Compared to 2015 Energy generation and storage revenue increased $166.9 million, or 1,153%, primarily due to $84.1 million as a result of the inclusion of revenue from SolarCity from the acquisition date of November 21, 2016 through December 31, 2016, as well as an increase of $82.8 million in energy storage revenue as we ramped up our energy storage sales effort and completed several utility scale projects such as Southern California Edison Mira Loma substation . 50 Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Cost of revenues Automotive sales $ 6,724,480 $ 4,268,087 $ 2,639,926 $ 2,456,393 58 % $ 1,628,161 62 % Automotive leasing 708,224 481,994 183,376 226,230 47 % 298,618 163 % Total automotive cost of revenues 7,432,704 4,750,081 2,823,302 2,682,623 56 % 1,926,779 68 % Services and other 1,229,022 472,462 286,933 756,560 160 % 185,529 65 % Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenue 8,661,726 5,222,543 3,110,235 3,439,183 66 % 2,112,308 68 % Energy generation and storage segment 874,538 178,332 12,287 696,206 390 % 166,045 1351 % Total cost of revenues $ 9,536,264 $ 5,400,875 $ 3,122,522 $ 4,135,389 77 % $ 2,278,353 73 % Gross profit total automotive $ 2,208,596 $ 1,600,685 $ 917,671 Gross margin total automotive 23 % 25 % 25 % Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment $ 1,980,759 $ 1,596,195 $ 921,313 Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment 19 % 23 % 23 % Gross profit energy generation and storage segment $ 241,728 $ 3,062 $ 2,190 Gross margin energy generation and storage segment 22 % 2 % 15 % Total gross profit $ 2,222,487 $ 1,599,257 $ 923,503 Total gross margin 19 % 23 % 23 % 51 Automotive & Services and Other Segment Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes primarily the amortization of operating lease vehicles over the lease term, as well as warranty expenses recognized as incurred. Cost of services and other revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead associated with the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other manufacturers, costs associated with providing maintenance services and costs to acquire and certify used vehicles. 2017 Compared to 2016 Cost of automotive sales revenues increased $2.46 billion, or 58%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This was primarily due to a 58% increase in vehicle deliveries resulting from increased sales of Model S and Model X, as well as the commencement of deliveries of Model 3 in the third quarter of 2017. Cost of automotive leasing revenue increased $226.2 million, or 47%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This was primarily due to an approximately 30% increase in the number of vehicles under leasing programs or programs with a resale value guarantee compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized an increase of $23.4 million in cost of automotive leasing revenue upon early payoff and the expiration of resale value guarantees. Cost of services and other revenue increased $756.6 million, or 160%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the increase in cost of used vehicle sales due to increased volume and the increase in cost to provide maintenance services as our fleet continues to grow. Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 25% to 23% during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The commencement of deliveries of Model 3 in the third quarter of 2017 whereby the full operating costs and depreciation were recorded at much lower production volumes as production ramps, higher current period early payoffs and expirations of resale value guarantees, as compared to the same period in the prior year, contributed to the lower gross margin. Lower material and manufacturing costs for Model S and Model X, as we further improved our vehicle production processes and the partial recognition of autopilot 2.0 revenue in the current period partially offset the overall decrease. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 23% to 19% during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. These decreases are driven by the factors impacting gross margin for total automotive, as explained above, as well as higher costs of maintenance service. 2016 Compared to 2015 Cost of automotive revenues increased $1.63 billion, or 62%, to $4.27 billion during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily due to a 55% increase in vehicle deliveries as a result of a full-year of Model X deliveries as well as increased deliveries for Model S. In addition, the increase is due to product mix as Model X has a higher cost structure than Model S. The increase in cost of automotive revenue is partially offset by a reduction of warranty expense of $20.0 million resulting from better vehicle reliability. 52 Cost of automotive leasing revenue increased $298.6 million, or 163%, to $482.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase is primarily due to an 83% increase in cumulative vehicle deliveries under leasing programs and programs with resale value guarantees from the year ended December 31, 2015 to the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized $114.3 million in cost of automotive leasing revenues upon the expiration of resale value guarantees. Cost of services and other revenue increased $185.5 million, or 65%, to $472.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase of $120.8 million in cost of used vehicle sales due to increase in volume, and an increase of $64.9 million in cost to provide maintenance service as our fleet continues to grow. Gross margin for total automotive remained consistent during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. Gross profit for total automotive & services and other segment increased from $921.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 to $1.60 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment increased from 22.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 to 23.4% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to lower material and manufacturing costs as we further improve our production processes, partially offset by a negative impact from the movement in foreign exchange and increased expenditures to build out our service centers and provide maintenance. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct material and labor costs, overhead of solar energy systems and energy storage products and the depreciation expense and maintenance costs associated with leased solar energy systems. 2017 Compared to 2016 Cost of energy generation and storage revenue increased by $696.2 million, or 390%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This was primarily due to the inclusion of the full-year of costs from our solar business, which we gained by acquiring SolarCity on November 21, 2016. Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from 2% to 22% during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This was predominantly due to the inclusion of the full-year of revenue and costs from our solar business, which we gained by acquiring SolarCity. 2016 Compared to 2015 Cost of energy generation and storage revenue increased $166.0 million to $178.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was due to an increase of $67.0 million as a result of the inclusion of SolarCitys financial results from the acquisition date of November 21, 2016 to December 31, 2016. The remaining increase was due to increase in the sale of energy storage products and increased expenditures to increase the capacity of energy storage products. Research and Development Expense Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Research and development $ 1,378,073 $ 834,408 $ 717,900 $ 543,665 65 % $ 116,508 16 % As a percentage of revenues 12 % 12 % 18 % Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. 53 R&D expenses increased $543.7 million, or 65%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase was primarily due t o a $274.9 million increase in employee and labor related expenses from increased headcount as a result of our acquisitions as well as headcount growth from the expansion of our automotiv e and energy generation and storage businesses, and a $44.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to an increase in headcount and number of employee stock awards granted for new hire and refresher employee stock grants. Additionally, there were increases in facilities expenses, depreciation expenses, professional and outside service expenses and expensed materials to support the development of future products . R&D expenses increased $116.5 million, or 16%, to $834.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase of $116.5 million was primarily due to a $78.2 million increase in employee and labor related expenses due to a 15% headcount increase as we expanded our vehicle business in the U.S. and internationally, and a $65.0 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to an increase in headcount and number of employee stock awards granted for new hire and refresher employee stock grants. This is partially offset by a $25.9 million decrease in expensed materials related to our Model X development, which was primarily incurred in 2015. The overall increase also includes $11.0 million related to SolarCity. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 2,476,500 $ 1,432,189 $ 922,232 $ 1,044,311 73 % $ 509,957 55 % As a percentage of revenues 21 % 20 % 23 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and litigation settlements. SG&A expenses increased $1.04 billion, or 73%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase was primarily due to a $524.0 million increase in employee and labor related expenses from increased headcount as a result of our acquisitions as well as headcount growth from the expansion of our automotive and energy generation and storage businesses, and a $64.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to an increase in headcount and number of employee stock awards granted for new hire and refresher employee stock grants. Additionally, the increase was due to a $310.6 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related expenses to support the growth of our business as well as sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence and a $140.6 million increase in professional and outside service expenses to support the growth of our business. SG&A expenses increased $510.0 million, or 55%, to $1.43 billion during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily due to a $247.2 million increase in employee and labor related expenses due to a 61% increase in headcount as we expanded our business in the U.S. and internationally, a $91.0 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business as well as sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence, and a $58.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to increased number of employee stock awards granted for new hire and existing employees. The increase includes $74.3 million related to SolarCity. 54 Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Interest expense $ (471,259 ) $ (198,810 ) $ (118,851 ) $ (272,449 ) 137 % $ (79,959 ) 67 % As a percentage of revenues 4 % 3 % 3 % Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased $272.4 million, or 137%, from the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of the full-year of interest expense from SolarCity of $185.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, our average outstanding indebtedness has increased in the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the prior year mainly due to the Convertible Senior Notes due in 2022 and the Senior Notes due in 2025, both of which we issued during 2017. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased $80.0 million, or 67%, from the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 consisted primarily of a $33.1 million increase in interest expense on vehicles sales that we account for as collateralized borrowing, a $28.5 million increase in interest expense on build-to-suit leases and a $22.0 million increase in interest expense associated with SolarCitys indebtedness, financing obligations and capital lease obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Other income (expense), net $ (125,373 ) $ 111,272 $ (41,652 ) $ (236,645 ) -213 % $ 152,924 -367 % As a percentage of revenues -1 % 2 % -1 % Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Additionally, other income (expense), net, includes a gain from the acquisition of SolarCity for the year ended December 31, 2016. Other income (expense), net, decreased by $236.7 million, or 213%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to measurement period adjustments to the acquisition date fair value of SolarCity and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Other income, net, increased by $152.9 million as we recognized a gain from the acquisition of SolarCity of $88.7 million and a loss on conversion of our 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2018 of $7.2 million. The remainder of the change in other income (expense), net, was primarily result of fluctuations in gains (losses) from foreign currency exchange. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2017 vs. 2016 Change 2016 vs. 2015 (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 $ % $ % Provision for income taxes $ 31,546 $ 26,698 $ 13,039 $ 4,848 18 % $ 13,659 105 % Effective tax rate -1 % -4 % -1 % Our provision for income taxes increased by $4.9 million, or 18%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase was primarily due to the increase in vehicle deliveries in foreign tax jurisdictions, partially offset by $10.5 million of future U.S. alternative minimum tax refunds as a result of the Tax Act, which previously had an associated valuation allowance. 55 Our provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $26.7 million and $13.0 million, respectively. This increase was primarily due to the increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Our net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests was related to financing fund arrangements. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2017, we had $3.37 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $521.5 million and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan, euros and Norwegian kroner. Our sources of cash are predominately from our deliveries of vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt facilities, proceeds from financing funds and proceeds from equity offerings. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows enable us to fund ongoing operations, research and development projects, investments in tooling and manufacturing equipment for the production ramp of Model 3, the continued construction of Gigafactory 1 and the continued expansion of our retail stores, service centers, mobile repair services and Supercharger network. We are growing our vehicle manufacturing capacity primarily to fulfill Model 3 production at 5,000 vehicles per week and, in a later phase, to 10,000 vehicles per week. Capital expenditures in 2018 are projected to be slightly more than 2017. We continually evaluate our capital expenditure needs and may raise additional capital to fund the rapid growth of our business. We have an agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period following full production at Gigafactory 2. We anticipate meeting these obligations through our operations at Gigafactory 2 and other operations within the State of New York, and we do not believe that we face a significant risk of default. We expect that our current sources of liquidity together with our projection of cash flows from operating activities will provide us with adequate liquidity over at least the next 12 months. A large portion of our future expenditures is to fund our growth, and we can adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment, including future expansion of our product offerings, stores, service centers, delivery centers and Supercharger network. We may need or want to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available to us when we need or want them, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. In addition, we had $2.04 billion of unused committed amounts under our credit facilities and financing funds, some of which are subject to satisfying specified conditions prior to draw-down. For details regarding our indebtedness and financing funds, refer to Note 13, Convertible and Long-Term Debt Obligations , and Note 18, VIE Arrangements , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Summary of Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 Net cash used in operating activities $ (60,654 ) $ (123,829 ) $ (524,499 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (4,418,967 ) $ (1,416,430 ) $ (1,673,551 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 4,414,864 $ 3,743,976 $ 1,523,523 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales, lease payments directly from customers, customer deposits, sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage products. These cash inflows are offset by our 56 payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, employee compensation, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased by $63.2 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 due to the decrease in net operating assets and liabilities of $197.3 million partially offset by the decrease in net loss, excluding non-cash expenses and gains, of $134.1 million. The decrease in working capital was mainly driven by faster processing of payments for our vehicles and our focus on reducing inventory in the fourth quarter of 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2016, cash used in operating activities was primarily a result of our net loss of $773.0 million, the increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $750.6 million as our business expanded, the increase in resale value guarantees of $326.9 million and deferred revenue of $383.0 million as the number of vehicles with a resale value guarantee increased and the increase in customer deposits of $388.4 million primarily due to Model 3 reservations. These increases were partially offset by the increase in inventories and operating lease vehicles of $2.47 billion as we expanded our program for direct leases and vehicles with a resale value guarantee. During the year ended December 31, 2015, cash used in operating activities was primarily a result of our net loss of $888.7 million and the increase in inventories and operating lease vehicles of $1.57 billion as we expanded our program for direct leases and vehicles with a resale value guarantee. These increases were partially offset by the increase in resale value guarantees of $442.3 million and deferred revenue of $322.2 million as the number vehicles with a resale value guarantee increased. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $4.08 billion during 2017, $1.44 billion during 2016 and $1.63 billion during 2015. Capital expenditures during 2017 were from $3.41 billion of purchases of property and equipment (mainly for Model 3 production) and $666.5 million for the design, acquisition and installation of solar energy systems under operating leases with customers. We also paid $114.5 million, net of the cash acquired, for acquisitions in 2017. In 2014, we began construction of Gigafactory 1. During 2017, we used cash of $1.45 billion towards Gigafactory 1 construction. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2017 consisted primarily of $966.4 million from the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes due in 2022, $1.77 billion from the issuance of the Senior Notes due in 2025 and $400.2 million from our March 2017 public offering of common stock, net of underwriter fees. However, we paid $151.2 million for the purchase of bond hedges net of the amount we received from the sale of warrants. Furthermore, we received $511.3 million of net proceeds from collateralized lease borrowings and $527.5 million of net proceeds from fund investors. Cash flows from financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2016 consisted primarily of $1.70 billion from our May 2016 public offering of common stock, net of underwriter fees, $995.4 million of proceeds from issuances of debt net of repayments and $769.7 million of net proceeds from collateralized lease borrowings. The net proceeds from issuances of debt consisted primarily of $834.0 million of net borrowings under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit agreement and $390.0 million of borrowings under the vehicle lease-backed loan and security agreement entered into in 2016, partially offset by settlements of $454.7 million for certain conversions of the Convertible Senior Notes due in 2018. Furthermore, we received $180.3 million of net proceeds from fund investors. Cash flows from financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2015 consisted primarily of $730.0 million from our August 2015 public offering of common stock and $568.7 million of net proceeds from collateralized lease borrowings. 57 Contractual Obligations We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties, including certain debt financing arrangements and leases, primarily for stores, service centers, certain manufacturing and corporate offices. These also include, as part of our normal business practices, contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services and capacity reservation contracts. The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2017, certain significant obligations that will affect our future liquidity (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Total 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Operating lease obligations $ 1,317,226 $ 224,630 $ 204,335 $ 175,612 $ 156,552 $ 130,802 $ 425,295 Capital lease obligations, including interest 785,215 127,180 137,313 167,281 138,042 133,772 81,627 Purchase obligations (1) 17,525,445 2,761,819 2,279,682 3,484,953 3,433,787 3,435,956 2,129,248 Long-term debt (2) 11,797,022 2,506,499 2,173,097 413,430 1,798,676 1,582,240 3,323,080 Total $ 31,424,908 $ 5,620,128 $ 4,794,427 $ 4,241,276 $ 5,527,057 $ 5,282,770 $ 5,959,250 (1) These amounts represent (i) purchase orders of $1.18 billion issued under binding and enforceable agreements with all vendors as of December 31, 2017 and (ii) $16.34 billion in other estimable purchase obligations pursuant to such agreements, primarily relating to the purchase of lithium-ion cells to be produced by Panasonic at Gigafactory 1, including any additional amounts we may have to pay vendors if we do not meet certain minimum purchase obligations. In cases where no purchase orders were outstanding under binding and enforceable agreements as of December 31, 2017, we have included estimated amounts based on our best estimates and assumptions or discussions with the relevant vendors as of such date or, where applicable, on amounts or assumptions included in such agreements for purposes of discussion or reference. In certain cases, such estimated amounts were subject to contingent events. Furthermore, these amounts do not include future payments for purchase obligations that were recorded in accounts payable or accrued liabilities as of December 31, 2017. (2) Long-term debt includes our non-recourse indebtedness of $ 2.93 billion. Non-recourse debt refers to debt that is recourse to only specified assets of our subsidiaries. The table above excludes unrecognized tax benefits of $191.0 million because if recognized, they would be an adjustment to our deferred tax assets. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.