MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to accelerate the worlds transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation and other services related to our products. Automotive Our production vehicle fleet includes our Model S premium sedan and our Model X sport utility vehicle, which are our highest-performance vehicles, and our Model 3, a lower-priced sedan designed for the mass market which we began to produce and deliver in the second half of 2017. We continue to enhance our vehicle offerings with enhanced Autopilot options, Internet connectivity and free over-the-air software updates to provide additional safety, convenience and performance features. In addition, we have several future electric vehicles in our product pipeline, including those we unveiled in 2017 an electric semi-truck and a new version of the Tesla Roadster . Energy Generation and Storage We lease and sell solar energy systems and sell renewable energy and energy storage products to our customers. We have partnered with Panasonic to provide capital and operational support to manufacture PV cells, thus enabling high volume integrated tile and PV cell production at our Gigafactory 2 in Buffalo, New York. We are also continuing to ramp Solar Roof production at Gigafactory 2. Our energy storage products, which we manufacture at Gigafactory 1, consist of Powerwall, mostly for residential applications, and Powerpack, for commercial, industrial and utility-scale applications. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Automotive Demand, Production and Deliveries We drive demand for our vehicles by continually improving our vehicles through over-the-air software updates, expanding our retail, service and charging infrastructure, and by periodically developing and introducing new passenger and commercial electric vehicle variants and models. Our goal is to produce the worlds highest quality vehicles as quickly and as cost-effectively as possible with a priority on workplace health and safety. The worldwide automotive markets for alternative fuel vehicles and self-driving technology are highly competitive and we expect them to become even more so. A growing number of companies, including established automakers, have announced plans to expand, and in some cases fully transition to, production of electric or environmentally friendly vehicles, and/or to develop self-driving technologies. We welcome the acceleration of the worlds transition to sustainable transport. Nonetheless, we believe that the unique features of our vehicles, our constant innovation, our growing brand, the increased affordability introduced with Model 3, our global Supercharger network and our future vehicles will continue to generate incremental demand for our vehicles by making our vehicles accessible to larger and previously untapped consumer and commercial markets. We have made significant progress on the ramp of Model 3 since the second half of the first quarter of 2018. We remain committed to our automation strategy, which is key to achieving our goals, and we are seeing many benefits from heavily increasing automation as part of the Model 3 production process. Model 3 is already the highest quality vehicle we have ever produced, due in large part to this automation. That said, we added automation too quickly in certain manufacturing processes and experienced challenges in ramping select areas of production, including portions of the battery module line at Gigafactory 1 and part of the materials flow system and two steps of the general assembly line at the Tesla Factory. We have temporarily reduced automation in these areas and introduced semi-automated or manual processes while we work to eventually turn back to fully automated processes. As a result of our efforts, we have largely overcome the bottleneck in our battery module line, which for months was our main production bottleneck. Prior to taking a planned downtime in the third week of April 2018 to address several small, known constraints, our production of Model 3 exceeded 2,000 vehicles per week for three consecutive weeks. 33 We continue to target Model 3 production of approxi mately 5,000 per week around the beginning of July 2018, although our prior experience has demonstrated the difficulty of accurately forecasting specific production rates at specific points in time because of the exponential nature of the ramp. We also pla n to take additional days of downtime during the remainder of the second quarter of 2018 to address other bottlenecks across the manufacturing lines and increase production. After achieving the 5,000 per week production rate, we will begin offering new Mod el 3 options such as all-wheel drive and the base model with a standard-sized battery pack. At that point, we also intend to incorporate our cumulative experience to continue to increase output on our existing manufacturing lines beyond 5,000 vehicles per week, and then add incremental capacity in a capital-efficient manner to ultimately achieve a weekly production rate of 10,000 vehicles. We expect Model S and Model X deliveries to be approximately 100,000 in total in 2018, constrained by the total available supply of cells with the 18650 form factor used in those vehicles. As our sales network continues to expand to new markets in 2018, we believe vehicle orders should continue to grow. With demand outpacing production, we plan to optimize the trim and option mix in order to optimize revenue and gross margin. We have made significant and sustained progress in the production processes of Model S and Model X, and we will continue to improve manufacturing efficiencies for these vehicles in 2018. We are also making strides in other aspects of our vehicle production, deliveries and customer infrastructure. For example, we expect to continue to lower the cost of manufacturing our vehicles due to economies of scale, material cost reductions and more efficient manufacturing and equipment utilization. We have achieved cost improvements through material cost reductions from both engineering and commercial actions and increased manufacturing efficiencies including better inventory control for Model S and Model X. We have also seen improved product reliability in our vehicles, batteries and drive units. Likewise, we may experience infrastructure constraints and customer experience issues relating to vehicle deliveries, but are trying to address such issues by opening additional delivery and service centers to scale the volume of vehicles we are able to deliver. We are also in the process of changing the quarterly production patterns of Model S and Model X vehicles by geographical region to ensure a more linear flow of deliveries through the quarter. We believe this change will provide a better customer experience and reduce the stress on our delivery system. As sales of Tesla vehicles ramp in 2018, we plan to continue to open new Tesla retail, locations, service centers and delivery hubs around the world, we plan to continue to expand our Mobile Service fleet, and we plan to significantly increase the number of Superchargers and Destination Charging connectors globally with the goal of remaining ahead of the Model 3 ramp. We are also making progress with our self-driving technology. In March 2018, we released a significant Autopilot update and we upgraded our mapping architecture, which establishes a key platform to enable safer driving and the transition towards full autonomy. This latest mapping software is dramatically simpler and faster, providing a better user experience and superior performance. Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment We are continuing to reduce customer acquisition costs of our energy generation products, including by cutting advertising spend and increasingly selling these products in Tesla stores with dedicated energy product sales personnel and leveraging channel partnerships. We have deemphasized absolute volume growth for our retrofit solar products, and we have instead prioritized projects for upfront cash generation and profitability. Our Solar Roof at Gigafactory 2 continued to ramp during the first quarter of 2018. We are working to enhance the design and manufacturing process of this product in order to improve the customer experience while reducing manufacturing cost and achieving high levels of quality. Production should accelerate significantly in the second half of 2018. We expect energy storage products to experience significant growth, with our aim being to at least triple our sales in 2018. We are ramping up production for these products at our Gigafactory 1 over the next several quarters, but demand is greater than our current production capacity for energy storage. For example, although we deployed a record number of residential Powerwall systems in the first quarter of 2018, our net backlog continued to grow in the same quarter. We expect energy generation and storage gross margin to improve significantly in 2018 as a result of higher-margin commercial solar projects and a more profitable energy storage business due to overall cost and manufacturing efficiencies from scaling. Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses Capital expenditures in 2018 are expected to support increases in Model 3 production capacity at Gigafactory 1 and the Tesla Factory, and for building additional stores, service centers and Superchargers. However, we have significantly reduced our projections for capital expenditures by focusing on the critical near-term needs that will benefit us primarily in the next two years. At this stage, we are expecting total 2018 capital expenditures to be slightly below $3 billion. Ultimately, our capital expenditures will develop in line with Model 3 production, our profitability and our operating cash generation. 34 We expect operating expenses to grow in 2018 as compared to 2017, although operating expenses should decrease significantly as a percentage of revenue due to the significant increase in expected revenue in 2018 and as we focus on increasing operational efficiency. The growth in operating expense will mainly be driven by engineering, design and testing of new products or changes to existing products and higher sales and service costs associated with expanding our worldwide geographic presence. In addition, we expect operating expenses to increase as a result of increased selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by our energy generation and storage business. In March 2018, our stockholders approved a new 10-year CEO performance award for Elon Musk with vesting contingent on achieving market capitalization and operational milestones. Consequently, we may incur significant additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense over the term of the award as each operational milestone becomes probable of vesting. Automotive Financing Options We offer loans and leases for our vehicles in certain markets in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offered resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to all direct customers who purchase vehicles and who financed their vehicle through one of our specified commercial banking partners. Subsequent to June 30, 2016, this program is available only in certain international markets. Resale value guarantees available for exercise within the 12 months following March 31, 2018 totaled $ 125.1 million in value. We have adopted the new revenue recognition standard ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018. This impacts the way we account for vehicle sales with a resale value guarantee and vehicles leased through our leasing partners, which now generally qualify to be accounted for as sales with a right of return. In addition, for certain vehicles sales with a resale value guarantee and vehicles leased through leasing partners prior to 2018, we have ceased recognizing lease revenue starting in 2018 and now record the associated cumulative adjustment to equity under the modified retrospective approach. Vehicle deliveries with the resale value guarantee do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. While we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, if a customer exercises the option to return the vehicle to us, we are exposed to liquidity risk that the resale value of vehicles under these programs may be lower than our guarantee, or the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates or we may be unable to resell the used vehicles in a timely manner, all of which could adversely impact our cash flows. Through 2017, we only had an insignificant number of customers who exercised their resale value guarantees and returned their vehicles to us. Based on current market demand for our vehicles, we estimate the resale prices for our vehicles will continue to be above our resale value guarantee amounts. Should market values of our vehicles or customer demand decrease, these estimates may be impacted materially. We currently offer vehicle leases in the U.S. for Model S and Model X directly from Tesla Finance, our captive financing entity. Leasing through Tesla Finance is available in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We also offer financing arrangements through our entities in Canada, Germany and the United Kingdom. We also offer leasing through leasing partners in certain jurisdictions. Leasing through our captive financing entities and our leasing partners exposes us to residual value risk. In addition, for leases offered directly from our captive financing entities, we assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expanding our financing offerings, including our lease financing options and the financial sources to support them, and to support the overall financing needs of our customers. To the extent that we are unable to arrange such options for our customers on terms that are attractive, our sales, financial results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Energy Generation and Storage Financing Options We offer our customers the choice to either purchase and own solar energy systems or to purchase the energy that our solar energy systems produce through various contractual arrangements. These contractual arrangements include long-term leases and power purchase agreements. In both structures, we install our solar energy systems at our customers premises and charge the customer a monthly fee. In the lease structure, this monthly payment is fixed with a minimum production guarantee. In the power purchase agreement structure, we charge customers a fee per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, based on the amount of electricity the solar energy system actually produces. The leases and power purchase agreements are typically for 20 years with a renewal option, and generally when there is no upfront prepayment, the specified monthly fees are subject to annual escalations. For customers who want to purchase and own solar energy systems, we also offer solar loans, whereby a third-party lender provides financing directly to a qualified customer to enable the customer to purchase and own a solar energy system designed, installed and serviced by us. We enter into a standard solar energy system sale and installation agreement with the customer. Separately, the customer enters into a loan agreement with a third-party lender, who finances the full purchase price. We are not a party to the loan agreement between the customer and the third-party lender, and the third-party lender has no recourse against us with respect to the loan. 35 Gigafactory 1 We continue to develop Gigafactory 1 as a facility where we work together with our suppliers to integrate production of battery material, cells, modules, battery packs and drive units in one location for vehicles and energy storage products. We also continue to invest in the future expansion of Gigafactory 1 and in production equipment for battery cell, module and pack production. Panasonic has partnered with us on Gigafactory 1 with investments in the production equipment that it uses to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment at negotiated prices. As these terms convey to us the right to use, as defined in ASC 840, Leases , their production equipment, we consider them to be leased assets when production commences. This results in us recording the value of their production equipment within property, plant and equipment, net, on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding liability recorded to financing obligations. For all suppliers and partners for which we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment located at Gigafactory 1, we will apply similar accounting. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $103.0 million on the consolidated balance sheet. While we currently believe that our progress at Gigafactory 1 will allow us to reach our production targets, our ultimate ability to do so will require us to resolve the types of challenges that are typical of a production ramp. For example, we have experienced bottlenecks in the assembly of battery modules at Gigafactory 1, which has negatively affected our production of Model 3. While we have made significant progress resolving the known issues at Gigafactory 1, given the size and complexity of this undertaking, it is possible that future events could result in the cost of building and operating Gigafactory 1 exceeding our current expectations and Gigafactory 1 taking longer to expand than we currently anticipate. Gigafactory 2 We have an agreement with the SUNY Foundation for the construction of a factory capable of producing at least 1.0 gigawatts of solar cells annually in Buffalo, New York, referred to as Gigafactory 2. In December 2016, we entered into an agreement with Panasonic under which it manufactures custom PV cells and modules for us, primarily at Gigafactory 2, and we will purchase certain quantities of PV cells and modules from Panasonic during the 10-year term. The terms of our agreement with the SUNY Foundation require us to comply with a number of covenants, and any failure to comply with these covenants could obligate us to pay significant amounts to the SUNY Foundation and result in termination of the agreement. Although we have commenced production at Gigafactory 2, our expectations as to the cost of building the facility, acquiring manufacturing equipment and supporting our manufacturing operations may prove incorrect, which could subject us to significant expenses to achieve the desired benefits. Other Manufacturing In addition, we continue to expand production capacity at our Tesla Factory and are exploring additional production capacity in Asia and Europe. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by us. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an on-going basis. To the extent that there are material differences between our estimates and actual results, the future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be affected. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 36 Results of Operations Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Automotive sales $ 2,561,881 $ 2,035,060 $ 526,821 26 % Automotive leasing 173,436 254,540 (81,104 ) -32 % Total automotive revenues 2,735,317 2,289,600 445,717 19 % Services and other 263,412 192,726 70,686 37 % Total automotive & services and other segment revenue 2,998,729 2,482,326 516,403 21 % Energy generation and storage segment revenue 410,022 213,944 196,078 92 % Total revenues $ 3,408,751 $ 2,696,270 $ 712,481 26 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to sale of new Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles, including internet connectivity, Supercharger access, and specified software updates for cars equipped with autopilot hardware, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for Model S and Model X vehicles under direct lease agreements as well as those sold with resale value guarantees accounted for as operating leases under lease accounting. We do not yet offer leasing for Model 3 vehicles. Services and other revenue consists of maintenance services, sales of used vehicles and sales of electric vehicle components and systems to other manufacturers, as well as sales by our recently acquired subsidiaries to third party customers. Automotive sales revenue increased $526.8 million, or 26%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily related to 8,182 deliveries of Model 3 vehicles, and the recognition of $299.0 million of additional sales due to the adoption of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , and all the related amendments (new revenue standard). Additionally, there was an increase of $62.9 million in sales of regulatory credits to $80.3 million. The increase in revenue is offset by a decrease in cash deliveries for Model S and Model X of 2,134 excluding the impact of adoption of the new revenue standard, at average selling prices that remained relatively consistent as compared to the prior period. Short-term operational and logistical issues led to an increase in the number of Model S and Model X vehicles in transit to customers at the end of the quarter, contributing to the decrease in cash deliveries as compared to prior quarter. Automotive leasing revenue decreased $81.1 million, or 32%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to a downward adjustment of $165.0 million from the adoption of the new revenue standard offset by additional vehicles under leasing programs. Service and other revenue increased $70.7 million, or 37%, during the year three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This was primarily due to an increase in used vehicle sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Energy generation and storage revenue increased by $196.1 million, or 92%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, predominantly due to increase in Powerpack and Powerwall deliveries as well as $72.5 million revenue related to the South Australia battery project. Additionally, revenue increased for energy generation due to additional systems deployed. The increase in energy generation revenue was slightly offset by a decrease of $3.4 million due to the adoption of the new revenue standard. 37 Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Cost of revenues Automotive sales $ 2,091,397 $ 1,496,649 $ 594,748 40 % Automotive leasing 104,496 166,026 (61,530 ) -37 % Total automotive cost of revenues 2,195,893 1,662,675 533,218 32 % Services and other 380,969 213,876 167,093 78 % Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues 2,576,862 1,876,551 700,311 37 % Energy generation and storage segment 375,363 151,773 223,590 147 % Total cost of revenues $ 2,952,225 $ 2,028,324 $ 923,901 46 % Gross profit total automotive $ 539,424 $ 626,925 Gross margin total automotive 20 % 27 % Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment $ 421,867 $ 605,775 Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment 14 % 24 % Gross profit energy generation and storage segment $ 34,659 $ 62,171 Gross margin energy generation and storage segment 8 % 29 % Total gross profit $ 456,526 $ 667,946 Total gross margin 13 % 25 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes primarily the amortization of operating lease vehicles over the lease term, as well as warranty expenses recognized as incurred. Cost of services and other revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead associated with the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other manufacturers, costs associated with providing maintenance services and costs to acquire and certify used vehicles. Cost of automotive sales revenues increased $594.7 million, or 40%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This was primarily due to a 49% increase in vehicle deliveries mainly due to sales from Model 3 offset by a decrease in cost for Model S and Model X due to lower deliveries and lower costs per unit. Cost of automotive leasing revenue decreased $61.5 million, or 37%, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the adoption of the new revenue standard offset by additional vehicles under leasing programs. Cost of services and other revenue increased $167.1 million, or 78%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to the increase in cost of used vehicle sales due to increased volume and the increase in cost of our service infrastructure to provide maintenance services as our fleet continues to grow. 38 Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 27% to 20% in the three months ended Ma rch 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease is mainly due to higher cost for Model 3 as a result of temporary under-utilization of manufacturing capacity at lower production volumes as production ramps. The decrease in g ross margin is partially offset due to lower costs for Model S and Model X. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 24% to 14% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. These decreases are driven by the factors impacting gross margin for total automotive, as explained above, as well as higher costs of maintenance service. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Cost of energy generation and storage revenue increased by $223.6 million, or 147%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This is primarily due to higher MWh deployed in the three months ended March 31, 2018 including the cost related to the South Australia battery project. Additionally, cost increased for energy generation due to additional systems deployed. Gross margin for energy generation and storage decreased from 29% to 8% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Energy storage revenue as a percentage of energy generation and storage revenue was higher for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, resulting in lower gross margin as we had negative margins for energy storage due to manufacturing under-utilization and one-time costs. Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Research and development $ 367,096 $ 322,040 $ 45,056 14 % As a percentage of revenues 11 % 12 % Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. R&D expenses increased $45.1 million, or 14%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This increase was primarily due to a $47.6 million increase in employee and labor related expenses from increased headcount as a result of headcount growth from the expansion of our business, a $13.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to an increase in headcount and number of employee stock awards granted for new hire and refresher employee stock grants. Additionally, there were increases in facilities expenses and depreciation expenses offset by a decrease in expensed materials to support the development of future products. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 686,404 $ 603,455 $ 82,949 14 % As a percentage of revenues 20 % 22 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and litigation settlements. SG&A expenses increased $83.0 million, or 14%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This increase was primarily due to a $63.6 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related expenses to support the growth of our business as well as sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence. Additionally, the increase was due to a $18.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to the number of employee stock awards granted for new hires, refresher employee stock grants and the 2018 CEO Performance Award. 39 Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Interest expense $ (149,546 ) $ (99,346 ) $ (50,200 ) 51 % As a percentage of revenues 4 % 4 % Interest expense increased by $50.2 million, or 51%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in our average outstanding indebtedness and the weighted average interest rates for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Other expense, net $ (37,716 ) $ (18,098 ) $ (19,618 ) 108 % As a percentage of revenues -1 % -1 % Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Other income (expense), net, decreased by $19.6 million, or 108%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates offset by a gain from interest rate swaps related to our debt facilities. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 $ % Provision for income taxes $ 5,605 $ 25,278 $ (19,673 ) -78 % Effective tax rate -1 % -7 % Our provision for income taxes decreased by $19.7 million, or 78%, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily due to the reduction in taxable profits in certain foreign jurisdictions. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Our net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests was related to financing fund arrangements. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2018, we had $2.67 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $882.5 million and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan, euros and Norwegian kroner. Our sources of cash are predominately from our deliveries of vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt facilities, proceeds from financing funds and proceeds from equity offerings. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows enable us to fund ongoing operations, research and development projects, investments in tooling and manufacturing equipment for the production ramp of Model 3, the continued construction of Gigafactory 1 and the continued expansion of our retail stores, service centers, mobile repair services and Supercharger network. Once we have achieved a 5,000 weekly production rate for Model 3, we intend to incorporate our cumulative experience to continue to increase output on our existing manufacturing lines beyond 5,000 vehicles per week, and then add incremental capacity in a capital-efficient manner to ultimately achieve a weekly production rate of 10,000 vehicles . At this stage, we are expecting total 2018 capital expenditures to be slightly below $3 billion. Ultimately, our capital expenditures will develop in line with Model 3 production, our profitability and our operating cash generation. We continually evaluate our capital expenditure needs and may raise additional capital to fund the rapid growth of our business. 40 We have an agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period following full production at Gigafactory 2. We anticipate meeting these obligations through our operations at Gigafactory 2 and other operations within the State of New York, and we do not believe that we face a significant risk of defau lt. We expect that our current sources of liquidity together with our projection of cash flows from operating activities will provide us with adequate liquidity over at least the next 12 months. A large portion of our future expenditures is to fund our growth, and we can adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment, including future expansion of our product offerings, stores, service centers, delivery centers and Supercharger network. We may need or want to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available to us when we need or want them, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. In addition, we had $1.96 billion of unused committed amounts under our credit facilities and financing funds, some of which are subject to satisfying specified conditions prior to draw-down. For details regarding our indebtedness and financing funds, refer to Note 10, Convertible and Long-Term Debt Obligations , and Note 13, VIE Arrangements , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Net cash used in operating activities $ (398,376 ) $ (69,811 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (728,637 ) $ (881,719 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 371,660 $ 1,598,749 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales, lease payments directly from customers, customer deposits, sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage products. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, employee compensation, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $328.6 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to the increase in net loss, excluding non-cash expenses and gains, of $265.9 million and the increase in net operating assets and liabilities of $62.6 million. The increase in net operating assets and liabilities was mainly driven by increases in inventory and accounts receivable, as a result of the timing of deliveries, partially offset by the increase in accounts payable, as a result of increased expenditures to support our ramp of Model 3 deliveries. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased by $153.1 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to the $147.0 million decrease in purchases of solar energy systems, leased and to be leased, and the $109.1 million that we spent on acquisitions of businesses in 2017, partially offset by the $103.0 million increase in purchases of property and equipment (mainly for Model 3 production). In 2014, we began construction of Gigafactory 1. We used cash of $173.3 million and $276.6 million towards Gigafactory 1 construction during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 consisted primarily of $546.1 million from the issuance of automobile lease-backed notes and $177.0 million of net borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Additionally, there were net repayments of $337.6 million under the Warehouse Agreements. Cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2017 consisted primarily of $966.4 million from issuance of convertible notes, and $400.2 million from public offering of our common stock, net of underwriter fees and issuance costs. Additionally, we paid $151.2 million for bond hedges net of the amount we received from the sale of warrants. Furthermore, we received proceeds from our collateralized borrowing program of $186.4 million and net proceeds from investment by fund investors of $78.3 million. 41 Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations did not materially change during the three months ended March 31, 2018 except for debt activity, as discussed in more detail in Note 10, Convertible and Long-Term Debt Obligations . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.