MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to accelerate the worlds transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation and other services related to our products. Automotive Our production vehicle fleet includes our Model S premium sedan and our Model X SUV, which are our highest-performance vehicles, and our Model 3, a lower-priced sedan designed for the mass market. We continue to enhance our vehicle offerings with enhanced Autopilot options, internet connectivity and free over-the-air software updates to provide additional safety, convenience and performance features. In March 2019, we unveiled Model Y, a compact SUV utilizing the Model 3 platform, which we expect to produce at high volumes by the end of 2020. In addition, we have several future electric vehicles in our product pipeline, including Tesla Semi, a pickup truck and a new version of the Tesla Roadster. Energy Generation and Storage We sell and lease retrofit solar energy systems and sell renewable energy and energy storage products to our customers, and are ramping our Solar Roof product that combines solar energy generation with attractive, integrated styling. Our energy storage products, which we manufacture at Gigafactory 1, consist of Powerwall, mostly for residential applications, and Powerpack, for commercial, industrial and utility-scale applications. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Automotive Demand, Production and Deliveries Our goal is to produce the worlds highest quality vehicles as quickly and as cost-effectively as possible with a priority on workplace health and safety. The worldwide automotive markets for alternative fuel vehicles and self-driving technology are highly competitive and we expect them to become even more so. However, we believe that the unique features and the safety aspects of our vehicles, our constant innovation, our growing brand, the increased affordability introduced with Model 3, the expansion of our global service and charging operations and infrastructure, and our future vehicles will continue to generate incremental demand for our vehicles by making them accessible to larger and previously untapped consumer and commercial markets. We believe that an increasingly important factor in our success will be the Autopilot features in our vehicles and eventually, our self-driving technology in which we are making significant strides through our proprietary and powerful full self-driving computer and remotely updateable artificial intelligence software, which we expect will facilitate the achievement of fully autonomous driving in our vehicles. While we are subject to regulatory constraints over which we have no control, our ultimate goal is an autonomously-driven future that improves safety for everyone on the road and provides our customers with convenience and additional income through participation in an autonomous Tesla ride-hailing network, which we will also operate with our own vehicles. We also believe that we have an advantage over our competitors with respect to our battery and powertrain technology, as our vehicles EPA-rated range per kWh is expected to be superior to that of other electric vehicles to be introduced in the near term, and we have the ability to improve our vehicles through over-the-air software updates. 33 On the other hand, we may be impacted by trade policies, political uncertainty and economic cycles involving geographic regions where we have significant operations. Sales of vehic les in the automotive industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to increased volatility. In addition, the federal tax credit for the purchase of a qualified electric vehicle in the U.S. was reduced to $3,750 for any Tesla vehic le delivered during the first or second quarter of 2019, and will be further reduced to $1,875 for each Tesla vehicle delivered in the third or fourth quarter of 2019 and to $0 for each Tesla vehicle delivered thereafter. We believe that this phase-out lik ely pulled forward some vehicle demand into 2018 and could create similar pull-forwards in 2019 before each further step reduction in the federal tax credit. In the long run, we do not expect a meaningful impact to our sales in the U.S., as we believe that each of our vehicle models offers a compelling proposition even without incentives. Finally, in the first quarter of 2019, we announced a global shift to exclusively transact our vehicle sales through the Internet (except for limited inventory sales), and we are in the process of optimizing our retail operations at our stores accordingly. We believe that this strategy will allow us to maximize our reach, decrease costs and vehicle prices, and improve the purchasing experience. However, prospective customer s may initially be wary of this approach, which traditionally has not been used to sell vehicles at volume. We also made certain adjustments to our vehicle prices during the first quarter of 2019 to reflect the anticipated resulting changes to our cost str ucture, and as a limited accommodation to customers in consideration of the first reduction in the federal tax credit. As such pricing changes may impact our vehicles resale values, we increased our estimates of the volume of vehicles that may potentially be returned to us under pre-existing resale value guarantees provided to customers and partners for certain financing programs, which resulted in a net reduction in gross profit in the first quarter of 2019. In the first quarter of 2019, Model 3 was once again the best-selling premium vehicle in the United States. Vehicles traded in to us by Model 3 customers continue to validate a wider addressable market for this vehicle than existing owners of premium vehicles, and this trend has only increased following the introduction in the first quarter of 2019 of the $35,000 base price Model 3 Standard Range and Model 3 Standard Range Plus. Model 3 Standard Range is a software-limited version of Model 3 Standard Range Plus, which offers upgraded specifications at an excellent value and has been far more popular than Model 3 Standard Range. Moreover, we introduced Model 3 leasing in the United States in April 2019 in order to further expand the appeal of Model 3. Outside of the United States, where the mid-sized premium sedan market is significantly larger, we have only recently commenced deliveries of Model 3 in Europe and China as the first steps in our global expansion of this vehicle. Overall, we believe that we have only begun to explore the market opportunities for Model 3. We produce variants (including regional versions) of Model 3 in batches in accordance with the demand that we expect for them, however, and we have long lead times associated with procuring certain parts and finite production capabilities at a single factory from which all Model 3 vehicles are shipped globally, including to destinations with long transit times. If our specific Model 3 demand expectations prove inaccurate, including as we continue to expand the markets in which we offer Model 3, we may not be able to timely generate sales matched to the specific vehicles that we produce in the same timeframe, which may negatively impact our deliveries in a particular period. Our Model 3 production continued to ramp during the first quarter of 2019, and we expect to continue to grow Model 3 production to a sustained rate of 7,000 vehicles per week at our Tesla Factory by the end of 2019. Furthermore, in January 2019 we commenced construction of our Gigafactory Shanghai in China. We expect to build a production process that is optimized and simplified for Model 3 production, comprised of stamping, body joining and paint shops and general assembly, at Gigafactory Shanghai to begin production of certain trims of Model 3 for China by the end of 2019. We believe that the efficiencies of local production, as well as avoiding certain tariffs on U.S.-manufactured vehicles, will allow us to offer Model 3 at a low average selling price in the largest market for electric vehicles in the world. Inclusive of and dependent upon how quickly we can ramp Gigafactory Shanghai, our next milestone is to be able to produce at least 500,000 units of all vehicle models combined in a continuous 12-month period ending no later than June 30, 2020. However, the timeframe for Gigafactory Shanghai is subject to a number of uncertainties, including regulatory approval, supply chain constraints, and the pace of installing production equipment and bringing the factory online. Ultimately, achieving increased Model 3 production cost-effectively will require that we timely address any bottlenecks, such as an isolated supplier limitation in the first quarter of 2019, that may arise as we continue to ramp, and establish and maintain sustained supplier capacity, not only at our U.S. manufacturing facilities but also locally at Gigafactory Shanghai. We experienced a decline in Model S and Model X deliveries in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to recent historical levels, which we believe was caused by weaker demand due to seasonality, a pull-forward of sales into the fourth quarter of 2019 in the United States as a result of the first federal tax credit reduction, and the discontinuation of our 75 kWh battery pack versions. We also saw mismatches between the mix of variants ordered and our manufacturing capacity allocated among such variants, including as a result of our adjustments to vehicle pricing during the first quarter of 2019. We have taken certain steps that we believe will offset such issues, such as making our Model S and Model X lineup even more compelling by adopting a new generation of powertrain for these vehicles that features better range and acceleration than ever beforeincluding in standard range versions that we re-introduced at the same time. This upgrade ensures the best performance characteristics with our flagship vehicles, even at the standard range trims, while preserving differentiation from Model 3. 34 Advancing our customer-facing infrastructure remains a top priority. Delivering vehicles to our customers and the related logistics, especially in our first quarter of Model 3 deliveries outside of North America, presented challenges that among other things, caused vehicle deliveries to be deferred into the second quarter of 2019. However, we are working to eliminate the manufacturing and delivery patterns that contribute to s uch delays and logistical issues, by making these processes evenly spread out across each quarter. We are also continuing to optimize, expand and invest in our servicing capabilities for our rapidly growing customer vehicle fleet, in order to ensure a conv enient and efficient customer experience. We also plan to continue to increase the number of Superchargers and Destination Charging connectors globally, and we recently introduced and began to deploy our 250 kilowatt V3 Supercharger technology to enable fa ster charging times while reducing our related costs. However, we will have to stabilize and sustain our delivery and logistics model to deliver an increasing number of vehicles, and we have only limited experience with this at scale, particularly in marke ts outside of North America. Moreover, if our growing fleet of customer vehicles, particularly Model 3, experiences unexpected reliability issues, it could outpace and overburden our servicing capabilities. Finally, we recently unveiled Model Y, which we expect to build on the existing Model 3 platform, using manufacturing capacity at either the Tesla Factory or Gigafactory 1 that we believe will be less costly per unit of capacity than that of our original Model 3 lines. Given the specifications, performance and price we are planning for Model Y, and the growing compact SUV segment in which it will compete, Model Y presents an exciting opportunity for Tesla. Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment We are continuing to reduce customer acquisition costs of our energy generation products, by focusing on selling these products directly and efficiently. We have recently made the online buying experience for our energy products simpler and more accessible by standardizing the offerings for what has traditionally been a cumbersome customized process and offering highly competitive pricing, which should result in cost efficiencies and a larger market. As we continue to implement this strategy, we expect that our retrofit solar system deployments will stabilize and grow in the second half of the year. We are continuing with design iterations and testing on our Solar Roof product to improve our manufacturing capabilities, and we are continuing installations at a slow pace with the expectation that we will ramp production during 2019 and beyond. We expect our energy storage products to continue to experience rapid growth, and we are targeting to more than double our deployments from 2018 to over 2 GWh in 2019. We continue to see global opportunities for projects, including to mitigate the costs of electricity and increase energy grid reliability. We are continuing to ramp production for these products at Gigafactory 1, including by re-routing certain cell production capacity that had temporarily been used for Model 3 back to these products, and we have seen further manufacturing efficiencies and improvements in our installation processes as we ramp. Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses Capital expenditures in 2019 are projected to be approximately $2.0 to 2.5 billion, to continue to develop our main projects including Gigafactory Shanghai, Model Y and Tesla Semi, as well as to further expand our Supercharger and vehicle service and repair networks. Generally, we expect operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to continue to decrease in the future due to increases in expected revenues and as we focus on increasing operational efficiency. In March 2018, our stockholders approved a new 10-year CEO performance award for Elon Musk with vesting contingent on achieving market capitalization and operational milestones (the 2018 CEO Performance Award). Consequently, we may incur significant additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense over the term of the award as each operational milestone becomes probable of vesting. Automotive Financing Options We offer financing arrangements for our vehicles in certain markets in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offer resale value guarantees or similar buy-back terms to certain customers who purchase vehicles and who finance their vehicles through one of our specified commercial banking partners. We also offer resale value guarantees in connection with automotive sales to certain leasing partners. Currently, both programs are available only in certain international markets. Resale value guarantees available for exercise within the 12 months following March 31, 2019 totaled $136.6 million in value. 35 Vehicle deli veries with the resale value guarantee do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. While we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, if a customer exe rcises the option to return the vehicle to us, we are exposed to liquidity risk that the resale value of vehicles under these programs may be lower than our guarantee, or the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates or we may be u nable to resell the used vehicles in a timely manner, all of which could adversely impact our cash flows. To date, we have only had an insignificant number of customers who exercised their resale value guarantees and returned their vehicles to us. However, resale prices may inherently fluctuate depending on various factors such as supply and demand of our used vehicles, economic cycles and the pricing of new vehicles. Should market values of our vehicles or customer demand decrease, the accuracy of our esti mated rates of return may be impacted materially. As a result of pricing adjustments during the first quarter of 2019 as discussed above, we estimated a higher rate of return with respect to previously-delivered vehicles sold with a resale value guarantee, resulting in a net reduction in gross profit in such quarter. We adjusted our resale value guarantees for vehicles delivered subsequent to such pricing changes, for which we currently estimate the resale prices will continue to be above our associated res ale value guarantee amounts. We currently offer leasing directly through our local subsidiaries for Model S, Model X and Model 3 in the U.S. and for Model S and Model X in Canada . We also offer leasing through leasing partners in certain jurisdictions. Leasing through our captive financing entities and our leasing partners exposes us to residual value risk. In addition, for leases offered directly from our captive financing entities, we assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expanding our financing offerings, including our lease financing options and the financial sources to support them, and to support the overall financing needs of our customers. To the extent that we are unable to arrange such options for our customers on terms that are attractive, our sales, financial results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Energy Generation and Storage Financing Options We offer our customers the choice to either purchase and own solar energy systems or to purchase the energy that our solar energy systems produce through various contractual arrangements. These contractual arrangements include long-term leases and PPAs. In both structures, we install our solar energy systems at our customers premises and charge the customer a monthly fee, which alternatively may be prepaid at the customers option. In the lease structure, the monthly payment is fixed with a minimum production guarantee. In the PPA structure, we charge customers a fee per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, based on the amount of electricity the solar energy system actually produces. The leases and PPAs are typically for 20 years with a renewal option, and the specified monthly fees may be subject to annual escalations. For customers who want to purchase and own solar energy systems, we also offer solar loans, whereby a third-party lender provides financing directly to a qualified customer to enable the customer to purchase and own a solar energy system designed, installed and serviced by us. We enter into a standard solar energy system sale and installation agreement with the customer. Separately, the customer enters into a loan agreement with a third-party lender, who finances the full purchase price. We are not a party to the loan agreement between the customer and the third-party lender, and the third-party lender has no recourse against us with respect to the loan. Gigafactory 1 We continue to develop Gigafactory 1 as a facility where we work together with our suppliers to integrate production of battery material, cells, modules, battery packs and drive units in one location for vehicles and energy storage products. We also continue to invest and will invest in Gigafactory 1 in the future to achieve additional production output there. Panasonic has partnered with us on Gigafactory 1 with investments in the production equipment that it uses to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment at negotiated prices. As these terms convey a finance lease, as defined in ASC 842, Leases , we consider their production equipment to be leased assets when production commences. This results in us recording the value of their production equipment within property, plant and equipment, net, on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding liability recorded to long-term debt and finance leases. For all suppliers and partners for which we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment located at Gigafactory 1, we will apply similar accounting. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded $173.1 million on the consolidated balance sheet. While we currently believe that our progress at Gigafactory 1 will allow us to reach our production targets, our ultimate ability to do so will require us to resolve the types of challenges that are typical of a production ramp. For example, we have in the past experienced bottlenecks in the assembly of battery modules and cell output at Gigafactory 1, which impacted our production of Model 3. While we continue to resolve such issues at Gigafactory 1 as they arise, given the size and complexity of this undertaking, it is possible that future events could result in the cost of building and operating Gigafactory 1 exceeding our current expectations and Gigafactory 1 taking longer to expand than we currently anticipate. 36 Gigafactory 2 We have an agreement with the SUNY Foundation related to the construction of a facility in Buffalo, New York, referred to as Gigafactory 2, where we have housed the development and production of solar products and components. The terms of such agreement require us to comply with a number of covenants, including that specified portions of the total jobs required to be employed directly by Tesla in the state of New York and the total cumulative investment required to be made by Tesla be met by April 30, 2019, the first anniversary of the SUNY Foundations substantial completion of its construction work at the facility. We fully expect to meet these covenants on time and will report our current status to the SUNY Foundation following such anniversary. Overall, we expect our significant operations at Gigafactory 2 and the surrounding Buffalo area to continue, including our ramp and manufacture of Solar Roof, which we are planning to scale over the remainder of 2019 and into 2020, as well as certain product development and other Tesla operations. In addition, Panasonic manufactures PV cells and modules at Gigafactory 2, which are among our various sources for our solar retrofit installations. Although we remain on track with our covenants with the SUNY Foundation with respect to Teslas progress at and plans for Buffalo, any failure to comply with these covenants could obligate us to pay significant amounts to the SUNY Foundation and result in termination of the agreement. Our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo, including those associated with acquiring equipment and supporting our operations with respect to our production of Solar Roof there, may prove incorrect, which could subject us to significant expenses to achieve the desired benefits. Gigafactory Shanghai We are constructing Gigafactory Shanghai in order to increase the affordability of Model 3 for customers in China by reducing transportation and manufacturing costs and eliminating certain tariffs on vehicles imported from the U.S. We broke ground in January 2019, and subject to a number of uncertainties, including regulatory approval, supply chain constraints, and the pace of installing production equipment and bringing the factory online, we expect to begin production of certain trims of Model 3 at Gigafactory Shanghai by the end of 2019. We expect much of the investment in Gigafactory Shanghai to be provided through local debt financing, including a RMB 3.5 billion term facility that our subsidiary entered into in March 2019, supported by limited direct capital expenditures by us. Moreover, we are targeting the capital expenditures per unit of production capacity at this factory to be less than that of our Model 3 production at the Tesla Factory, from which we have drawn learnings that should allow us to simplify our manufacturing layout and processes at Gigafactory Shanghai. Other Manufacturing We continue to expand production capacity at our existing facilities and construct our planned facilities, and continually explore additional production capacity internationally. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 37 Results of Operations Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Automotive sales $ 3,508,741 $ 2,561,881 $ 946,860 37 % Automotive leasing 215,120 173,436 41,684 24 % Total automotive revenues 3,723,861 2,735,317 988,544 36 % Services and other 492,942 263,412 229,530 87 % Total automotive & services and other segment revenue 4,216,803 2,998,729 1,218,074 41 % Energy generation and storage segment revenue 324,661 410,022 (85,361 ) -21 % Total revenues $ 4,541,464 $ 3,408,751 $ 1,132,713 33 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to the sale of new Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles, including access to our Supercharger network, internet connectivity, Autopilot, full self-driving and over-the-air software updates, as well as sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Our revenue from non-ZEV regulatory credits generally follows our production and delivery trends as we have long-term contracts with existing customers for the sale of these credits. However, as we do not have long-term contracts for ZEV credit sales, revenue from sale of ZEV credits fluctuate by quarter depending on when a contract is executed with a buyer. For example, our revenue from ZEV credit sales in the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $179.1 million while it was $0.8 million in the three months ended December 31, 2018. Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for Model S and Model X vehicles under direct lease agreements as well as those sold with resale value guarantees accounted for as operating leases under lease accounting. We began offering leasing for Model 3 vehicles in the second quarter of 2019. Services and other revenue consists of non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, sales of used vehicles, sales of electric vehicle components and systems to other manufacturers, retail merchandise, and sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers. Automotive sales revenue increased $946.9 million, or 37%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase of approximately 42,750 Model 3 deliveries from our significant production ramp in the second half of 2018, delivered at average selling prices that remained relatively consistent year-over-year. Additionally, there was an increase of $170.6 million in sales of non-ZEV regulatory credits to $200.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $30.0 million in the same period in the prior year. The above increases in revenue were offset by a decrease of approximately 8,610 Model S and Model X deliveries at lower average selling prices due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Additionally, due to these price adjustments, we estimated that there is a greater likelihood that customers will exercise their buyback options. As a result, we adjusted our sales return reserve on vehicles previously sold under our buyback options program resulting in a reduction of automotive sales revenues of $500.5 million. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Automotive leasing revenue increased $41.7 million, or 24%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program and an increase in the number of vehicles under leasing programs where our counterparty has retained ownership of the vehicle during or at the end of the guarantee period when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. When our counterparty retains ownership, any remaining balances within deferred revenue and resale value guarantee are settled to automotive leasing revenue. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in cumulative vehicles under our resale value guarantee financing programs which are accounted for as operating leases. Services and other revenue increased $229.5 million, or 87%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in used vehicle sales from an increased volume of trade-in vehicles, partially offset by lower average selling prices for them due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the current period and an increase in trade-ins of relatively lower priced non-Tesla vehicles. Additionally, there was an increase in non-warranty maintenance services revenue as our fleet continues to grow. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Energy generation and storage revenue includes sale of solar energy systems and energy storage products, leasing revenue from solar energy systems under operating leases and PPAs and the sale of solar energy systems incentives. 38 Energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $85.4 million, or 21%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in revenue recognized for commercial projects, most predominantly $72.5 million for the South Australia batt ery project in the prior period, and a decrease in deployments of cash and loan solar projects. These decreases were partially offset by increases in deployments of Powerwall. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Cost of revenues Automotive sales $ 2,856,209 $ 2,091,397 $ 764,812 37 % Automotive leasing 117,092 104,496 12,596 12 % Total automotive cost of revenues 2,973,301 2,195,893 777,408 35 % Services and other 685,533 380,969 304,564 80 % Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues 3,658,834 2,576,862 1,081,972 42 % Energy generation and storage segment 316,887 375,363 (58,476 ) -16 % Total cost of revenues $ 3,975,721 $ 2,952,225 $ 1,023,496 35 % Gross profit total automotive $ 750,560 $ 539,424 Gross margin total automotive 20 % 20 % Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment $ 557,969 $ 421,867 Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment 13 % 14 % Gross profit energy generation and storage segment $ 7,774 $ 34,659 Gross margin energy generation and storage segment 2 % 8 % Total gross profit $ 565,743 $ 456,526 Total gross margin 12 % 13 % Automotive & Services and Other Segment Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes primarily the amortization of operating lease vehicles over the lease term, as well as warranty expenses recognized as incurred. Cost of automotive leasing revenue also includes vehicle connectivity costs and allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network for vehicles under our leasing programs. Costs of services and other revenue includes costs associated with providing non-warranty after-sales services , costs to acquire and certify used vehicles, and costs for retail merchandise. Cost of services and other revenue also includes direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead associated with the sales of electric vehicle components and systems to other manufacturers and sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers. Cost of automotive sales revenue increased $764.8 million, or 37%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase of approximately 42,750 Model 3 deliveries from our significant production ramp in the second half of 2018. The increase was partially offset by significant reductions in Model 3 average costs per unit compared to the prior period primarily due to temporary under-utilization of manufacturing capacity at lower production volumes in the first half of 2018 and other cost efficiencies. Additionally, due to price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings during the three months ended March 31, 2019, we estimated that there is a greater likelihood that customers will exercise their buyback options. If customers elect to exercise the buyback option, we expect to be able to subsequently resell the returned vehicles, which resulted in a reduction of automotive cost of sales of $408.8 million. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 39 Cost of automotive leasing revenue increased $12.6 million, or 12%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cumulative vehicles under our direct vehicle leasing program and an increa se in the number of vehicles under leasing programs where our counterparty has retained ownership of the vehicle during or at the end of the guarantee period when compared to the prior period. When our counterparty retains ownership, the net book value of the leased vehicle of the lease vehicle is expensed to cost of automotive leasing revenue. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our leasing portfolio under resale value guarantee financing programs that qualify under lease treatment. Cost of services and other revenue increased $304.6 million, or 80%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to the cost of used vehicle sales from the increased volume of trade-in vehicles. Additionally, there was an increase in the cost of our new service centers, additional service personnel in existing and new service centers, Mobile Service capabilities, parts distribution centers and investment in new body shops to provide maintenance services to our rapidly growing fleet of vehicles. Gross margin for total automotive remained relatively consistent at 20% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Model 3 margins improved compared to the prior period as we achieved significant manufacturing efficiencies in the production of Model 3 in the second half of 2018. This increase was partially offset by lower Model S and Model X deliveries at lower margins due to lower average selling prices from price adjustments we made to our vehicle offerings in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Additionally, the price adjustments also resulted in a reduction in gross automotive sales profit of $91.7 million from the adjustment of our sales return reserve on vehicles previously sold under our buyback options program. Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 14% to 13% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to the automotive gross margin impacts discussed above. Energy Generation and Storage Segment Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect material and labor costs, warehouse rent, freight, warranty expense, other overhead costs and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. In addition, where arrangements are accounted for as operating leases, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of the cost of leased solar energy systems, maintenance costs associated with those systems and amortization of any initial direct costs Cost of energy generation and storage revenue decreased by $58.5 million, or 16%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cost of revenue for commercial energy storage projects, most predominantly $72.5 million for the South Australia battery project in the prior period, and a decrease in cost of revenue for cash and loan solar projects from lower deployments. These decreases were partially offset by increases in cost of revenue for Powerwall from increased deployments, increases in costs for our cash and loan solar energy system projects and higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp. Gross margin for energy generation and storage decreased from 8% to 2% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower margins in our cash and loan solar energy system business driven by higher fixed costs per project as a result of lower deployments in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Additionally, higher costs from temporary manufacturing under-utilization of our Solar Roof ramp have further contributed to a decrease in margins. Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Research and development $ 340,174 $ 367,096 $ (26,922 ) -7 % As a percentage of revenues 7 % 11 % Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. R&D expenses decreased $26.9 million, or 7%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a $20.3 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from cost efficiency initiatives and a $10.7 million decrease in professional and outside service expenses, offset by an $11.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. 40 Selling, General and Adminis trative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 703,929 $ 686,404 $ 17,525 3 % As a percentage of revenues 16 % 20 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses generally consist of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and litigation settlements. SG&A expenses increased $17.5 million, or 3%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to a $51.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to the 2018 CEO Performance Award and stock awards granted for new hires and refresher employee stock grants, partially offset by a $27.8 million decrease in employee and labor related expenses from decreased headcount and certain other expenses. Restructuring and other Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Restructuring and other $ 43,471 $ $ 43,471 N/A As a percentage of revenues 1 % 0 % During the first quarter of 2019, we carried out certain restructuring actions in order to reduce costs and improve efficiency. As a result, we recognized $43.5 million of costs primarily related to employee termination expenses and losses from closing certain stores. These costs were substantially paid by the end of first quarter of 2019. The restructuring actions during the first quarter of 2019 will result in an estimated cost savings of approximately $180.0 million for the remainder of 2019. There were no restructuring actions in the three months ended March 31, 2018. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Interest expense $ (157,453 ) $ (149,546 ) $ (7,907 ) 5 % As a percentage of revenues 3 % 4 % Interest expense increased by $7.9 million, or 5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to a decrease of $10.5 million in the amount of interest we capitalized from the consolidated statement of operations to property, plant, and equipment on the consolidated balance sheets. Lower capitalization results in higher interest expense. The amount of interest we capitalize is driven by our construction in progress balance, which decreased year-over-year due to our declining Model 3 capital expenditure ramp. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Other income (expense), net $ 25,750 $ (37,716 ) $ 63,466 Not meaningful As a percentage of revenues 1 % -1 % Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and changes in the fair values of our fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Other income (expense), net, changed favorably by $63.5 million to a gain of $25.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from a loss of $37.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018. The change was primarily due to favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, offset by losses from interest rate swaps related to our debt facilities when compared to the prior period. 41 Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Provision for income taxes $ 22,873 $ 5,605 $ 17,268 308 % Effective tax rate -4 % -1 % Our provision for income taxes increased by $17.3 million, or 308%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to the increase in taxable profits in certain foreign jurisdictions year-over-year. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries $ 34,490 $ (75,076 ) $ 109,566 Not meaningful Our net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests was related to financing fund arrangements. The increase is mainly due to lower activity in our financing fund arrangements and a charge related to buyout of noncontrolling interests. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019, we had $2.20 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $410.1 million and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan, Norwegian kroner, and euros. Our sources of cash are predominantly from our deliveries of vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt facilities, proceeds from financing funds and proceeds from equity offerings. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows enable us to fund ongoing operations, research and development projects for new products, development of our main projects including Gigafactory Shanghai, Model Y and Tesla Semi, and expansion of our Supercharger and vehicle service and repair networks. We currently expect total 2019 capital expenditures to be approximately $2.0 to $2.5 billion. In 2019 and beyond, we will continue to utilize our increasing experience and learnings from past and current product ramps to do so at a level of capital efficiency per dollar of spend that we expect to be significantly greater than historical levels. For example, based on our experience with ramping Model 3 at the Tesla Factory, we expect that the capital spend per unit of Model 3 manufacturing capacity at Gigafactory Shanghai will be less than that of our line in Fremont. Likewise, based on such experience and the substantial commonality of components we expect between Model Y and Model 3, we believe that the production ramp of Model Y will be significantly faster than that of Model 3 and cost less per unit of manufacturing capacity than that of Model 3 at Fremont. Considering the pipeline of new products planned at this point, and consistent with our current strategy of using a partner to manufacture cells, as well as considering all other infrastructure growth and investments in Gigafactory 1, Gigafactory 2 and Gigafactory Shanghai, we currently estimate that capital expenditures will be between $2.5 to $3.0 billion annually for the next two fiscal years. Moreover, we expect that the cash we generate from our core operations will generally be sufficient to cover our future capital expenditures and to pay down our near-term debt obligations, although we may choose to seek alternative financing sources. For example, we expect that much of our investment in Gigafactory Shanghai will be funded through indebtedness arranged through local financial institutions in China, including a RMB 3.5 billion term facility that our subsidiary entered into in March 2019 . As always, we continually evaluate our capital expenditure needs and may decide it is best to raise additional capital to fund the rapid growth of our business. We have an agreement to spend or incur $5.0 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period following SUNY Foundations substantial completion of its construction work at Gigafactory 2. We anticipate meeting these obligations through our operations at this facility and other operations within the State of New York, and we do not believe that we face a significant risk of default. We expect that our current sources of liquidity together with our projection of cash flows from operating activities will provide us with adequate liquidity over at least the next 12 months. A large portion of our future expenditures is to fund our growth, and we can adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment, including future expansion of our product offerings and our Supercharger and vehicle service and repair networks. We may need or want to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available to us when we need or want them, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. 42 In addition, w e had $2.11 billion of unused committed amounts under our credit facilities and financing funds as of March 31, 2019, some of which are subject to satisfying specified conditions prior to draw-down (such as pledging to our lenders sufficient amounts of qua lified receivables, inventories, leased vehicles and our interests in those leases, solar energy systems and the associated customer contracts, our interests in financing funds or various other assets; and contributing or selling qualified solar energy sys tems and the associated customer contracts or qualified leased vehicles and our interests in those leases into the financing funds). Upon the draw-down of any unused committed amounts, there are no restrictions on the use of such funds for general corporat e purposes. For details regarding our indebtedness and financing funds, refer to Note 10, Long-Term Debt Obligations , and Note 14, Variable Interest Entity Arrangements , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report o n Form 10-Q. Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Net cash used in operating activities $ (639,606 ) $ (398,376 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (305,843 ) $ (728,637 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (653,019 ) $ 371,660 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative and working capital, especially inventory, which includes vehicles in transit. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales, lease payments directly from customers, customer deposits, sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage products. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, employee compensation, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings. Net cash used in operating activities increased by $241.2 million to $639.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $398.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018. This unfavorable change was primarily due to the increase in net operating assets and liabilities of $350.7 million and $188.1 million of the repayment of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2019 was classified as an operating activity, as this represented an interest payment on the discounted convertible notes. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by the increase in net income, excluding non-cash expenses and gains, of $297.6 million. The increase in net operating assets and liabilities was mainly driven by an increase in inventory, as a result of an increase in Model 3 production, and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The decrease in cash from certain operating activities was partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue, as a result of increased Model 3 deliveries and receipt of regulatory credits which will be delivered at a future date. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $305.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and $728.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2019 were primarily comprised of $279.9 million in purchases of property and equipment, mainly for Model 3 production, and $25.3 million for the design, acquisition and installation of solar energy systems with customers. Capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $655.7 million from purchases of property and equipment, mainly for Model 3 production, and $73.0 million for the design, acquisition and installation of solar energy systems with customers. In 2014, we began construction of Gigafactory 1. We used $67.8 million and $173.3 million of cash towards Gigafactory 1 construction during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 43 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 consisted primarily of a $731.9 million portion of the repayment of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2019 that was classified as financing activity, collateralized lease repayments of $133.9 million, and repayments of $115.2 million of the automotive asset-backed notes. These cash outflows were partially offset by $316.0 million of net borrowings under the senior secured asset-based revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) and $82.2 million of net borrowings under our vehicle lease-backed loan and security agreements (the Warehouse Agreements). See Note 10, Long-Term Debt Obligations , and Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details regarding our debt obligations and collateralized borrowings, respectively. Cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 consisted primarily of $546.1 million from the issuance of automobile lease-backed notes and $177.0 million of net borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Additionally, there were net repayments of $337.6 million under the Warehouse Agreements. Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations did not materially change during the three months ended March 31, 2019 except for debt activity and lease activity, as discussed in more detail in Note 10, Long-Term Debt Obligations and Note 11, Leases . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.