ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. These discussions contain forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, expectations regarding demand and acceptance for our technologies, growth opportunities and trends in the market in which we operate, prospects plans and objectives of management and the statements made below under the heading Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks. The words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, will, would and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview and Quarter Highlights We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network, and market and sell our vehicles directly to consumers via the phone and internet, in-person at our corporate events and through our network of Tesla stores. We were incorporated in Delaware in 2003, opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, and introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. In July 2009, we introduced a new Roadster model, the Tesla Roadster 2, and its higher performance option package Roadster Sport, as well as launched the Tesla Roadster in Europe. On July 1, 2010, we introduced the Roadster 2.5, with new styling and an upgraded interior. We are designing our second vehicle, the Model S, for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and plan to manufacture the Model S in higher volumes than our current volumes for the Tesla Roadster. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we experienced higher automotive sales and development services revenues. Total revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 were $49.0 million, an increase of 136% over total revenues of $20.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Automotive sales revenues increased 63% from the quarter ended March 31, 2010, driven by significantly higher deliveries of battery packs and chargers to Daimler AG (Daimler), as well as higher sales of the Tesla Roadster. In 2010, we were selected by Daimler to initially supply it with up to 1,000 battery packs and chargers to support a trial of the Smart fortwo electric drive in at least five European cities and we began supplying these battery packs and chargers at the end of the first quarter of 2010. During the first quarter of 2011, Daimler increased its total orders under this program by another 300 units to 2,100 battery packs and chargers. The quarter ended March 31, 2011 also represented our first full quarter of deliveries of battery packs and chargers for Daimlers A-Class program. Production for both the Smart fortwo and A-Class programs is expected to continue through 2011. 17 Table of Contents We continued to support sales of the Tesla Roadster with increased sales and marketing activities. Our network of stores increased to 17 stores by the end of the first quarter. In April 2011, we opened our newest store at Santana Row in San Jose, California. The opening of our Santana Row store launched what we believe to be a new retail experience designed to engage and inform potential customers about electric vehicles in general and the advantages of the Tesla experience in particular. At the store, Tesla customers can learn about electric vehicles, explore Teslas innovations, and configure their cars through hands-on interactive touchscreens. Development services revenue increased to $15.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 driven primarily by our development activities for the Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) RAV4 EV program. We continued to progress as planned, with the completion of initial milestones and deliveries of samples and prototype vehicles to Toyota. Pursuant to our agreements with Toyota, we expect to recognize up to an additional $45 million for the remaining development services which we currently expect to complete in the fourth quarter of 2011 or the first quarter of 2012. Toyota anticipates bringing the RAV4 EV to market in the United States in 2012, and we are negotiating with Toyota to finalize a separate agreement to supply production parts for that project; however, no agreement has yet been executed and there are no assurances that we will be able to enter into any such agreement. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we completed the construction of our Model S alpha prototypes and continued to put those prototypes through numerous rounds of testing. Detailed testing of systems integration, performance and safety, including cold weather brakes testing, has provided us with significant reliability and systems integration data and we expect that our iterative alpha testing will continue to influence our final part designs. Preparations for the beta build in our Fremont facility later this year are underway and we are working closely with suppliers to design, develop and test components that will meet our anticipated production design specifications. As a result of expenses related to the Model S alpha prototype build, increased production and engineering headcount, significant engineering, design and testing work being undertaken at several of our suppliers to support Model S readiness, along with our other research and development activities, research and development expenses increased to $41.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 from $13.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. We anticipate that this trend will continue as we incur additional costs to develop the Model S and to operate our planned Model S manufacturing facility prior to the start of Model S production. Alongside Model S engineering and manufacturing engineering development, we also experienced significant activity at our Fremont manufacturing facility, where we intend to produce our planned Model S and future vehicles. Significant construction continued to take place and work has been completed to prepare each shop for the delivery of manufacturing equipment. Equipment in plastics and stamping has been run in manual operation modes and further automation installation will continue throughout the summer. As a result of investments being made in our Fremont manufacturing facility and assets, along with our Palo Alto, California corporate headquarters and powertrain facility, capital expenditures increased to $20.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared to $8.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. We anticipate that this trend will continue and capital expenditures for the remainder of the year will be significant as our aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 are currently expected to be in the range of $190 million and $215 million. Our Model S and powertrain development activities, as well as our capital investments in manufacturing infrastructure, continued to be supported by draw-downs under our Department of Energy Loan Facility (DOE Loan Facility) and other sources of cash including cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services and sales of powertrain components and cash received from refundable reservation payments for our Model S. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we received $30.7 million in draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility bringing our total long-term debt under the facility to $102.5 million. As we continue to progress on our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to continue making draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. 18 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2011, we had $506 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $100.7 million which included investments in money market funds, cash of $42.9 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and $362.5 million available under the DOE Loan Facility. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Our focus for the remainder of 2011 continues to be on the disciplined development and preparation for the first customer deliveries of the planned Model S in mid-2012, as well as the continued growth of revenues through sales of the Tesla Roadster, and powertrain component sales and development services activities with our strategic partners. We expect 2011 sales of the Tesla Roadster to grow over 2010, but expect some seasonality during the winter months. We have a supply agreement with Lotus to purchase 2,400 Tesla Roadster vehicles or gliders, and through March 31, 2011, we have delivered approximately 1,650 vehicles to customers. We currently intend to manufacture the majority of our gliders with Lotus for our current generation Tesla Roadster until December 2011, and we intend to use these gliders in the manufacturing of the Tesla Roadster to both fulfill orders placed in 2011 as well as new orders placed in 2012 until our supply of gliders is exhausted. Accordingly, we intend to offer a limited number of Tesla Roadsters for sale in 2012. We currently anticipate that sales of the Tesla Roadster in North America may end by the end of 2011. As we have a limited number of the Tesla Roadster left for sale, we anticipate our automotive sales may decline, potentially significantly, just prior to the launch of our Model S. The launch of our Model S could be delayed for a number of reasons and any such delays may be significant and would extend the period in which we would generate limited revenues from sales of our electric vehicles. To the extent we wish to sell additional Tesla Roadsters with the Lotus gliders beyond the number of vehicles we have contracted for, we will need to negotiate a new or amended supply agreement with Lotus but may be unable to do so on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. We do not currently plan to begin selling our next generation Tesla Roadster until at least one year after the launch of the Model S and we intend to perform such manufacturing entirely in our own facilities. As a result of our electric powertrain supply and development services activities with our strategic partners, we will have significant deliveries and milestones to achieve in 2011. Along with the supply of battery packs and chargers for Daimlers Smart fortwo EV and A-Class programs, we will also have important development milestones and prototypes to deliver to Toyota as part of our Toyota RAV4 EV agreements. Although our current agreements with Daimler and Toyota provide us with increased revenue potential in 2011 from powertrain-related activities, we do not yet have finalized agreements with Daimler or Toyota for significant sales or services beyond 2011. 19 Table of Contents Model S development will continue to be a primary focus for 2011. We anticipate that we will place greater sales emphasis on the generation of Model S reservations during the second half of 2011 as we work towards the launch of our planned Model S in mid-2012. Ensuring that our engineering, operations and manufacturing engineering teams execute on all significant activities will be critical to a timely launch of first customer deliveries of our Model S in mid-2012. Our progress towards our beta prototype activities as well as readiness of our manufacturing capabilities will influence our ability to achieve the manufacturing cost per unit that we are currently projecting. In 2011, we publicly announced the Tesla Model X as the first vehicle derivative we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. We are designing the Model X as a crossover vehicle. We intend to develop a prototype of the Model X by the end of 2011. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles, including the Tesla Model X, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Our operating expenses are expected to increase in 2011 as we continue to execute on the Model S program, systematically and strategically expand our sales and marketing activities globally to support the launch of the Model S, as well as to maintain and support the overall activities of a growing public company. As we continue to make significant investments in research and development and our infrastructure to launch the Model S, we expect to continue generating a net loss despite anticipated year-over-year growth in revenues. Cost control within our operations, especially in general and administrative, continues to be an important objective. Capital spending for the Model S program is anticipated to be at its highest level in 2011, as we plan to purchase much of the tooling and manufacturing equipment required for production. Inclusive of non-Model S related investments, aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 are expected to be in the range of $190 million to $215 million. The majority of these capital investments should be reimbursable under the terms of our DOE Loan Facility. With this level of capital spending, we can execute on our strategic decision to increase in-sourcing, primarily in stampings and plastics. We have also elected to invest incrementally in new technologies, primarily in our paint and body shops, to produce vehicles at a higher quality at an affordable cost. Furthermore, we are investing in additional plant automation which provides us with the flexibility to expand capacity to produce up to 20,000 units on just one shift. Additionally, plant automation will allow us to accommodate either higher Model S production or the efficient introduction of future models. As significant capital investment is required to bring our Fremont facility and Model S manufacturing assets to a state of production readiness, all depreciation of our capital expenditures related to the Fremont facility will begin with the start of Model S production. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. 20 Table of Contents For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1, Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference. For revenue arrangements that were entered into or materially modified after January 1, 2011, implementation of new revenue accounting guidance had no material impact on our reported revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to revenue that would have been reported if the related arrangements were subject to the accounting requirements in effect in the prior year. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Revenues Automotive sales $ 33,628 $ 20,585 Development services 15,402 227 Total revenues 49,030 20,812 Cost of revenues Automotive sales 26,961 16,858 Development services 4,041 102 Total cost of revenues 31,002 16,960 Gross profit 18,028 3,852 Operating expenses Research and development 41,162 13,265 Selling, general and administrative 24,212 16,585 Total operating expenses 65,374 29,850 Loss from operations (47,346 ) (25,998 ) Interest income 40 48 Interest expense (230 ) Other expense, net (1,485 ) (3,221 ) Loss before income taxes (48,791 ) (29,401 ) Provision for income taxes 150 118 Net loss $ (48,941 ) $ (29,519 ) 21 Table of Contents Revenues Automotive Sales Automotive sales, which include vehicle, options and related sales, and powertrain component and related sales, consisted of the following for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Vehicle, options and related sales $ 20,467 $ 18,095 Powertrain component and related sales 13,161 2,490 Total automotive sales $ 33,628 $ 20,585 Automotive sales during the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $33.6 million, an increase from $20.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. Vehicle, options and related sales represent sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle credits. Powertrain component and related sales represent the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components, such as battery packs and battery chargers, to other manufacturers. Vehicle, options and related sales during the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $20.5 million, an increase from $18.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. The $2.4 million increase in vehicle, options and related sales was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of Tesla Roadsters that we sold and in particular in Asia, where we began selling the Tesla Roadster in 2010. Powertrain component and related sales for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $13.2 million, an increase from $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. The increase of $10.7 million in powertrain component and related sales was primarily due to significant shipments of batteries and chargers to Daimler. We began substantively delivering battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo program at the end of the first quarter of 2010, and the first quarter of 2011 represented the first full quarter of shipments of batteries and chargers for the Daimler A-Class program. Development Services Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we started entering into development services arrangements with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. We began recognizing development services revenue during the first quarter of 2010 with the development and delivery of modular battery packs for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, an affiliate of Daimler. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. We began providing development services for this program during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and had received an aggregate of $5.5 million in payments; however, as we had not executed a final agreement related to this program as of March 31, 2010, we deferred the $5.5 million of payments that had been received from Daimler until a final agreement was subsequently executed in May 2010. We have completed our deliverables under these agreements in 2010. In July 2010, we entered into an agreement with Toyota to initiate development of an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. Under this Phase 0 development agreement, prototypes would be made by us by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. In October 2010, we also entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we completed two milestones under the Phase 1 agreement and delivered several samples and prototype vehicles. Development services revenue under these arrangements with Toyota for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $15.2 million. 22 Table of Contents We intend to grow our development services revenue over time by establishing additional commercial arrangements with Daimler, Toyota and other automobile manufacturers. We do not yet have agreements for significant sales or services beyond 2011. Additionally, we expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues includes cost of automotive sales and cost of revenues related to our development services. Cost of revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $31.0 million, an increase from $17.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The increase in cost of automotive sales for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was driven primarily by an increase in the number of vehicles that we sold and the significant shipments of batteries and chargers to Daimler. We began substantively delivering battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo program at the end of the first quarter of 2010, and the first quarter of 2011 represented the first full quarter of shipments of batteries and chargers for the Daimler A-Class program. Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. The increase in cost of development services was driven primarily by our activities for the Toyota RAV4 program which began in the second half of 2010. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $18.0 million, an increase from $3.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. The increase was driven primarily by the gross profit contributed by our development services revenues which we substantively began to recognize in the second quarter of 2010 and a significant increase in Tesla Roadster sales. We expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. This may cause our gross profit and gross margin to be similarly impacted. We currently do not expect a significant change in the production cost of the Tesla Roadster through 2011. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2011 were $41.2 million, an increase from $13.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The $27.9 million increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2011 consisted primarily of a $10.6 million increase in professional and outside services costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities, a $7.5 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha build as well as powertrain development activities, a $5.9 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount, and a $2.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and a higher common stock valuation applied to new grants made in 2010. 23 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs associated with this program in cost of revenues. Since the commercial launch of the Tesla Roadster, our investment in research and development related to the Tesla Roadster has decreased significantly. We have, however, significantly increased our research and development efforts for the Model S, which has resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses in both aggregate dollar amounts and as a percentage of our revenues. We anticipate that this trend will continue on an annual basis as we incur additional costs to develop the Model S and to operate our planned Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California prior to the start of Model S production. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2011 were $24.2 million, an increase from $16.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The $7.6 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2011 consisted primarily of a $3.8 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $1.4 million increase in costs principally related to increased marketing activities, and a $0.9 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase both in aggregate dollar amounts and as a percentage of revenue in future periods as we continue to grow and expand our operations, and increase our sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence and prepare for the planned Model S commercial launch in mid-2012. We also expect an increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of our planned increase in the number of Tesla stores. As of March 31, 2011, we had opened Tesla stores in the United States, Europe and Japan. We plan to open additional stores during 2011. Interest Expense Our interest expense is primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility which we began accessing in 2010. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we capitalized $0.7 million of interest expense to construction in progress. Although interest expense will increase as we continue to draw down on the DOE Loan Facility to fund our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to capitalize this interest to construction in progress through 2011. 24 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our warrant liabilities and transaction gains and losses on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our transaction gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Income or charges resulting from the change in the fair value of our stock warrant liability, excluding the DOE warrant liability, was eliminated after July 2, 2010, as these warrants were net exercised at the completion of our IPO. The DOE convertible preferred stock warrant became a common stock warrant on July 2 and is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other income (expense), net, until its expiration or vesting. Other expense, net, during the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $1.5 million, a decrease in expense compared to other expense, net, of $3.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The decrease in other expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was primarily due to the elimination of warrant liabilities, excluding the DOE warrant liability, after the completion of our IPO, partially offset by a higher charge from the fair value change in our DOE warrant liability during the three months ended March 31, 2011 resulting from a higher stock price. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes during the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $0.2 million, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The increase for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was due primarily to the increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception and through the three months ended March 31, 2011, we had accumulated net operating losses of $463.9 million and have used $373.9 million of cash in operations. As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately $506 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $100.7 million which included investments in money market funds, cash of $42.9 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and $362.5 million available under the DOE Loan Facility, which is primarily intended to cover spending related to the development of the Model S and our powertrain activities. Other sources of cash also include cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services, sales of powertrain components and refundable reservation payments for our Model S. We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility, together with our anticipated cash from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our operations through the anticipated initial customer deliveries of the Model S. This capital will fund our ongoing operations, continue research, development and design efforts, establish sales and service centers, improve infrastructure such as expanded battery assembly facilities, and to make the investments in tooling and manufacturing capital required to introduce the Model S. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles, investments in new technologies, increased in-sourcing of manufacturing capabilities, investments to expand our powertrain activities or further expand our sales and service network, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We may also choose to opportunistically raise additional funds if market conditions are favorable. 25 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. DOE Loan Facility On January 20, 2010, we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB), and the DOE, pursuant to the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Incentive Program (the DOE Loan Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, the FFB has made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $465.0 million. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million will be made available under the first term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the powertrain engineering and the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components (the Powertrain Facility). Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan (the Model S Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, we are responsible for the remaining 20% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the projects as well as any cost overruns for each project. The costs paid by us prior to execution of the DOE Loan Facility and related to the Powertrain Facility and the Model S Facility will be applied towards our obligation to contribute 20% of the eligible project costs, and the DOEs funding of future eligible costs will be adjusted to take this into account. We have paid for the full 20% of the budgeted costs related to our Powertrain Facility and therefore expect to receive 100% reimbursement from the DOE Loan Facility for ongoing budgeted costs, but will continue to be responsible for cost overruns. On the closing date, we paid a facility fee to the DOE in the amount of $0.5 million. Through March 2011, we received loans under the DOE Loan Facility for an aggregate of $102.5 million at interest rates ranging from 1.7% to 3.4%. As of March 31, 2011, $362.5 million remained available under the DOE Loan Facility for future draw downs. On April 28, 2011, we received additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility for $8.7 million at interest rates ranging from 2.2% to 2.7%. Under the DOE Loan Facility, we have committed to pay all costs and expenses incurred to complete the projects being financed in excess of amounts funded under the loan facility. We will be required to maintain, at all times, available cash and cash equivalents of at least 105% of the amounts required to fund this excess over our financing commitment, after taking into account current cash flows and cash on hand, and reasonable projections of future generation of net cash from operations, losses and expenditures. Loans may be requested under the facilities until January 22, 2013, and we have committed to complete the projects being financed prior to such date. The DOE Loan Facility documents contain customary covenants that include, among others, a requirement that the projects be conducted in accordance with the business plan for such project, compliance with all requirements of the ATVM Program, and limitations on our and our subsidiaries ability to incur indebtedness, incur liens, make investments or loans, enter into mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets, pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock, pay indebtedness, pay management, advisory or similar fees to affiliates, enter into certain affiliate transactions, enter into new lines of business, and enter into certain restrictive agreements, in each case subject to customary exceptions. The DOE Loan Facility documents also contain customary financial covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum ratio of current assets to current liabilities, and (i) through December 15, 2012, a minimum cash balance, and (ii) after December 15, 2012, a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a limit on capital expenditures and, after March 31, 2014, a maximum ratio of total liabilities to shareholder equity. We are currently in compliance with these financial covenants. 26 Table of Contents The DOE Loan Facility documents also contain customary events of default, subject in some cases to customary cure periods for certain defaults. In addition, events of default include a failure of Elon Musk, our Chief Executive Officer, Product Architect and Chairman, and certain of his affiliates, at any time prior to one year after we complete the project relating to the Model S Facility, to own at least 65% of capital stock held by Mr. Musk and such affiliates as of the date of the DOE Loan Facility. Under the DOE Loan Facility, we are required to fund a debt service reserve account on or before December 31, 2012, in an amount equal to all principal and interest that will come due on the advances on the next two payment dates. Once we have deposited such two payments, we will not be required to further fund such debt service reserve account. We have also agreed that, in connection with the sale of our common stock in an initial public offering, at least 75% of the net offering proceeds will be received by us and, in connection with the sale of our stock in any other follow-on equity offering, at least 50% of the net offering proceeds will be received by us. Offering proceeds may not be used to pay bonuses or other compensation to officers, directors, employees or consultants in excess of the amounts contemplated by our business plan approved by the DOE. In addition to our obligation to fund a portion of the project costs as described above, we have agreed to set aside 50% of the net proceeds from our IPO and the concurrent Toyota private placement and any subsequent offerings of stock occurring before the completion of the projects, up to an aggregate of $100 million, to fund a separate, dedicated account under our DOE Loan Facility. This dedicated account can be used by us to fund any cost overruns for our powertrain and Model S manufacturing facility projects and will also be used as a mechanism to defer advances under the DOE Loan Facility. This will not affect our ability to draw down the full amount of the DOE loans, but will require us to use the dedicated account to fund certain project costs up front, which costs may then be reimbursed by loans under the DOE Loan Facility once the dedicated account is depleted, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. We will be required to deposit a portion of these reimbursements into the dedicated account, in an amount equal to up to 30% of the remaining project costs for the applicable project, and these amounts may similarly be used by us to fund project costs and cost overruns and will similarly be eligible for reimbursement by the draw-down of additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility once used in full, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. Upon the completion of our Initial Public Offering and concurrent Toyota private placement in July 2010, we set aside $100.0 million to fund the dedicated account. Through March 31, 2011, we have transferred $57.1 million from the dedicated account to our operating cash accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $42.9 million and $73.6 million remained in the dedicated account, respectively. As we expect to transfer the remainder of this balance within one year, we have classified such cash as current restricted cash on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Leasing Activities In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. 27 Table of Contents When compared to our sales of vehicles, our leasing activities will spread the cash inflows that we would otherwise receive upon the sale of a vehicle, over the lease term and final disposition of the leased vehicle. As such, our cash and working capital requirements will be directly impacted and if leasing volume increases significantly, the impact may be material. However, after taking into consideration our current and planned sources of operating cash, our ability to monitor and prospectively adjust our leasing activity, as well as our intent to collect nonrefundable deposits for leased vehicles that are manufactured to specification, we do not believe that our planned leasing operations will materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments and obligations as they become due. As we will also be exposed to credit risk related to the timely collection of lease payments from our customers, we intend to utilize our credit approval and ongoing review processes in order to minimize any credit losses that could occur and which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to require deposits from customers electing a lease option for vehicles built to a customers specifications on the same timeframe and under the same circumstances as from customers purchasing our vehicles outright. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, approximately 10% of the vehicles delivered during the period were under operating leases. As of March 31, 2011, we had deferred revenues of $1.2 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. Through March 31, 2011, our leasing activity has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. Reservations Payments Reservation payments allow potential customers to hold a reservation for the future purchase of a Tesla Roadster or Model S. These amounts are recorded as current liabilities until the vehicle is delivered. Beginning with our 2010 model year Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial $9,900, 11,500 or 10,000 deposit, depending on the location of the customer. For the Model S, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. For vehicles purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. For customers who have placed a refundable reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. We require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. Amounts received by us as reservation payments are generally not restricted as to their use by us. Upon delivery of the vehicle, the related reservation payments are applied against the customers total purchase price for the vehicle and recognized in automotive sales as part of the respective vehicle sale. Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (43,297 ) $ (27,329 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 10,111 (9,379 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 34,283 28,627 Cash Flows from Operating Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from operations as we expand our business and build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. 28 Table of Contents Net cash used in operating activities was $43.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $48.9 million, which included non-cash charges of $5.9 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $3.5 million related to depreciation and amortization and $1.4 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liabilities. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $65.4 million of operating expenses, $31.0 million of cost of revenues, a $5.5 million increase in inventory, a $1.5 million increase in operating lease vehicles and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $7.7 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales while the net increase in accounts payable was due to both the growth of our business and the timing of vendor payments. Operating lease vehicles continued to increase with the introduction of our leasing program in 2010. Significant operating cash inflows for the three months ended March 31, 2011 were derived primarily from sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components as well as from development services activity. Significant operating cash inflows were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $33.6 million, $15.4 million of development services revenue and an $8.7 million increase in reservation payments, partially offset by a $13.6 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to receivables from Toyota for the achievement of two milestones under the Toyota RAV4 Phase 1 contract services agreement. Net cash used in operating activities was $27.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The largest component of our cash used during this period was a net loss of $29.5 million, which included non-cash charges of $3.4 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $2.3 million related to the fair value change in our convertible preferred stock warrant liability and $2.1 million related to depreciation and amortization. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $29.9 million of operating expenses, $17.0 million of cost of revenues, a $5.5 million increase in inventory and a $3.5 million net decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements while the net decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was driven primarily by the timing of payments. Significant operating cash inflows for the three months ended March 31, 2010 were derived primarily from sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components as well as from development services activity. Cash inflows were $23.9 million comprised primarily of automotive sales of $20.6 million, $0.2 million of development services revenue, a $5.5 million increase in deferred revenues, partially offset by a $2.4 million increase in accounts receivable. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. The increase in deferred revenues was primarily driven by payments that we had received from Daimler in relation to this development arrangement for which an agreement had yet to be finalized and therefore, revenue was deferred. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to powertrain component sales during the three months ended March 31, 2010 in relation to Daimlers Smart fortwo program. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. Net cash provided by investing activities was $10.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily related to $30.6 million that was transferred out of our dedicated DOE account in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by capital purchases of $20.5 million. The increase in capital purchases was primarily due to significant development and construction activities at our Models S manufacturing facility as well as purchases of manufacturing equipment. 29 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $9.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010. The uses of cash for investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2010 consisted of $5.5 million in purchases of capital equipment and a $3.9 million increase in restricted cash. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to a $3.0 million deposit paid into escrow for the purchase of manufacturing equipment as well as certain refundable reservation payments segregated in accordance with state consumer protection regulations in Washington State. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $34.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and was comprised primarily of $30.7 million received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility and $3.7 million received from the exercise of common stock options and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Cash provided by financing activities was $28.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and was comprised primarily of the $29.9 million we received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $1.6 million of issuance costs we incurred in relation to our DOE Loan Facility and preparation of our initial public offering. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, as of March 31, 2011 certain significant cash obligations that will affect our future liquidity (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and thereafter Operating lease obligations $ 52,262 $ 5,352 $ 6,615 $ 6,611 $ 6,481 $ 5,943 $ 21,260 Capital lease obligations 738 233 286 219 Purchase obligations (1) 11,923 11,923 Total contractual obligations $ 64,923 $ 17,508 $ 6,901 $ 6,830 $ 6,481 $ 5,943 $ 21,260 (1) Obligations include significant agreements or purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and where the significant terms are specified. Where a minimum purchase obligation is stipulated, as in the case of our supply agreement with Lotus Cars Limited, the amounts included in the table reflect the minimum purchase amounts based on the March 31, 2011 exchange rate for the British pound. Purchase obligations that are cancelable without significant penalty, are not included in the table. As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we held reservation payments of $39.4 million and $30.8 million from potential customers, respectively, which are not reflected in the table above. As of March 31, 2011, we held reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $2.1 million and reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $37.3 million. As of December 31, 2010, we held reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $2.5 million and reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $28.3 million. In order to convert the reservation payments into revenue, we will need to sell vehicles to these customers. All reservation payments for the Model S are fully refundable until such time that a customer enters into a purchase agreement. 30 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.