Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following selected consolidated financial data table also reflects the 1-for-3 reverse stock split of our outstanding common stock effected in May 2010. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands, except share and per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues: Automotive sales $ 97,078 $ 111,943 $ 14,742 $ 73 $ Development services 19,666 Total revenues 116,744 111,943 14,742 73 Cost of revenues (1): Automotive sales 79,982 102,408 15,883 9 Development services 6,031 Total cost of revenues 86,013 102,408 15,883 9 Gross profit (loss) 30,731 9,535 (1,141 ) 64 Operating expenses (1): Research and development (net of development compensation of $23,249 for the year ended December 31, 2009) 92,996 19,282 53,714 62,753 24,995 Selling, general and administrative 84,573 42,150 23,649 17,244 5,436 Total operating expenses 177,569 61,432 77,363 79,997 30,431 Loss from operations (146,838 ) (51,897 ) (78,504 ) (79,933 ) (30,431 ) Interest income 258 159 529 1,749 938 Interest expense (992 ) (2,531 ) (3,747 ) (423 ) Other income (expense), net (2) (6,583 ) (1,445 ) (963 ) 137 59 Loss before income taxes (154,155 ) (55,714 ) (82,685 ) (78,047 ) (29,857 ) Provision for income taxes 173 26 97 110 100 Net loss $ (154,328 ) $ (55,740 ) $ (82,782 ) $ (78,157 ) $ (29,957 ) Net loss per share of common stock, basic and diluted (3) $ (3.04 ) $ (7.94 ) $ (12.46 ) $ (22.69 ) $ (10.18 ) Weighted average shares used in computing net loss per share of common stock, basic and diluted (3) 50,718,302 7,021,963 6,646,387 3,443,806 2,941,411 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Cost of revenues $ 243 $ 61 $ 26 $ $ Research and development 4,139 376 125 95 17 Selling, general and administrative 16,774 997 286 103 6 Total $ 21,156 $ 1,434 $ 437 $ 198 $ 23 75 Table of Contents (2) In January 2010, we issued a warrant to the Department of Energy (DOE) in connection with the closing of our DOE loan facility to purchase shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock. This convertible preferred stock warrant became a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering (IPO) in July 2010. Beginning on December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under the warrant will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of our the DOE loan facility during the prior quarter. Since the number of shares of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant will vary, this warrant will be carried at its estimated fair value with changes in the fair value of this common stock warrant liability reflected in other income (expense), net, until its expiration or vesting. Potential shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the DOE warrant will be excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share of common stock until at least such time as we generate a net profit in a given period. (3) Diluted net loss per share of common stock is computed excluding common stock subject to repurchase, and, if dilutive, potential shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Potential shares of common stock consist of stock options to purchase shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our convertible preferred stock (using the treasury stock method) and the conversion of our convertible preferred stock and convertible notes payable (using the if-converted method). For purposes of these calculations, potential shares of common stock have been excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share of common stock as their effect is antidilutive since we generated a net loss in each period. As of December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 99,558 $ 69,627 $ 9,277 $ 17,211 $ 35,401 Restricted cashcurrent (1) 73,597 Property, plant and equipment, net (2) 114,636 23,535 18,793 11,998 7,512 Working capital (deficit) 150,321 43,070 (56,508 ) (28,988 ) 8,458 Total assets 386,082 130,424 51,699 34,837 44,466 Convertible preferred stock warrant liability (3) 1,734 2,074 191 227 Common stock warrant liability (3) 6,088 Capital lease obligations, less current portion 496 800 888 18 Long-term debt (4) 71,828 Convertible preferred stock 319,225 101,178 101,178 60,173 Total stockholders equity (deficit) 207,048 (253,523 ) (199,714 ) (117,846 ) (43,923 ) (1) Upon the completion of our IPO and concurrent Toyota private placement in July 2010, we set aside $100.0 million to fund a restricted dedicated account as required under the provisions of our DOE loan facility. Through December 31, 2010, we transferred $26.4 million from the dedicated account to our operating cash accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE loan facility. (2) In October 2010, we completed the purchase of our Fremont, California facility and certain of the manufacturing assets located thereon. (3) In January 2010, we issued a warrant to the DOE in connection with the closing of our DOE loan facility to purchase shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock. This convertible preferred stock warrant became a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering in July 2010. (4) In January 2010, we closed our DOE loan facility and began making draw downs under the loan facility. 76 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These discussions contain forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, expectations regarding demand and acceptance for our technologies, growth opportunities and trends in the market in which we operate, prospects and plans and objectives of management. The words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, will, would and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview and 2010 Highlights We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network, and market and sell our vehicles directly to consumers via the phone and internet, in-person at our corporate events and through our network of Tesla stores. We were incorporated in Delaware in 2003, opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, and introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. In July 2009, we introduced a new Roadster model, the Tesla Roadster 2, and its higher performance option package Roadster Sport, as well as launched the Tesla Roadster in Europe. On July 1, 2010, we introduced the Roadster 2.5, with new styling and an upgraded interior. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced solid performance from sales of the Tesla Roadster, especially considering that the automotive sales recognized in 2009 were driven primarily from the fulfillment of a significant reservations list that had accumulated prior to and through 2009. Our automotive sales revenues in 2010 were primarily driven by retail store expansion globally and higher sales and marketing activities, higher average selling prices from an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers, as well as higher average selling prices outside of the United States. During 2010, we continued to expand our presence in Europe and introduced the Tesla Roadster in Canada and in Asia. Our network of stores increased to 16 stores by the end of 2010 and as of December 31, 2010, we had sold over 1,500 Tesla Roadsters to customers in 31 countries, with sales volume being concentrated in the United States and in Europe. In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster and during the latter half of 2010, we began offering a leasing alternative in Canada. Under our program, we permit qualifying customers to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a predetermined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases and accordingly, we recognize leasing revenues on a straight-line basis over the term of the individual leases. Lease revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $0.8 million and are recorded as part of our automotive sales revenue. Approximately 14% of the Tesla Roadsters delivered during 2010 were under operating leases. We continued to expand our electric powertrain component and development activities with other automotive manufacturers. By the end of 2009, we had completed the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler AGs (Daimler) Smart fortwo electric drive and were selected by Daimler to supply it initially with 77 Table of Contents up to 1,000 battery packs and chargers to support a trial of the Smart fortwo electric drive in at least five European cities. In 2010, we made significant deliveries of the Smart fortwo battery packs and chargers to Daimler which contributed approximately $21 million to our automotive sales revenue. Since 2009, Daimler has increased its orders under this program, with the current total order at 1,800 battery packs and chargers. Production of the battery packs and chargers is expected to continue through mid-2011. During the year, Daimler also engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May 2010 and upon completion of the A-Class battery pack and charger in October, we started recognizing revenue from the delivery of production battery packs and chargers for the Daimler A-Class program, which we expect to continue through the balance of 2011. In May 2010, we and Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive Toyotas support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for the Model S. In July 2010, we and Toyota entered into an early Phase 0 agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes would be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation during the latter half of the year. In connection with this program, in October 2010, we entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to our agreements, Toyota will pay us up to $69 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term of our performance. We expect to achieve our deliverables through late 2011 or early 2012. As a result of solid sales of the Tesla Roadster, as well as increased powertrain component sales and the commencement of development services revenues from both Daimler and Toyota, total revenues for 2010 were $116.7 million, an increase over total revenues of $111.9 million in 2009. We are designing our second vehicle, the planned Model S, for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and plan to manufacture the Model S in higher volumes than our current volumes for the Tesla Roadster. Model S development progressed well during 2010, culminating in the completion of our first drivable alpha prototype in December. Expenses related to the Model S alpha prototype build, increased production and engineering headcount and other important engineering, design and testing work being undertaken at several of our suppliers to support Model S readiness, contributed to the $73.7 million increase in research and development expenses from 2009 to $93.0 million in 2010. Alongside Model S engineering and manufacturing engineering development, we also completed the purchase of our Fremont manufacturing facility in October, which we intend to use for the production of our planned Model S and future vehicles. In May 2010, we entered into an agreement to purchase an existing automobile production facility in Fremont, California from New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI), which is a joint venture between Toyota and Motors Liquidation Company, the owner of selected assets of General Motors. In October 2010, we completed the purchase and received title to the facility and land. The purchase totals 210 acres, or approximately 55% of the land at the site, and includes all of the manufacturing facilities located thereon. In October 2010, we and NUMMI amended the facility purchase agreement to include the transfer to us of certain operating permits for additional consideration. The aggregate purchase price that we paid to NUMMI was $48.5 million, including the operating permits. In August 2010, we entered into an additional purchase agreement with NUMMI for the purchase of certain manufacturing equipment and spare parts located at the Fremont facility. This purchase agreement was subsequently amended to include additional manufacturing equipment and spare parts and in October 2010, we completed this purchase concurrent with the completion of the facility purchase. The aggregate purchase price that we paid for these assets was $16.7 million. The purchase of the Fremont manufacturing facility and assets, 78 Table of Contents along with other Model S related investments and investments that we made at our Palo Alto, California corporate headquarters and powertrain facility, brought our capital expenditures up to $105.4 million in 2010 from $11.9 million for 2009. We completed several significant financing transactions in 2010 to help progress our Model S and powertrain development activities, as well as support our capital investments in manufacturing infrastructure: In January 2010, we entered into our Department of Energy Loan Facility (DOE Loan Facility) for $465.0 million to support the expansion of our manufacturing operations, subject to certain draw conditions. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million is available under the first term loan facility to finance the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 91.5% of the costs eligible for funding for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for our Model S sedan. In July 2010, we closed our initial public offering (IPO) pursuant to which we sold 11,880,600 shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of $188.8 million from this transaction, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. Additionally, we incurred offering costs of $4.4 million related to the IPO. Concurrent with the closing of our IPO, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota and received proceeds of $50.0 million. In November 2010, we sold 1,418,573 shares of our common stock to an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) for aggregate proceeds of $30.0 million. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks2011 Outlook Our focus for 2011 continues to be on the disciplined development and preparation for the launch of the planned Model S in mid-2012, as well as the continued growth of revenues through sales of the Tesla Roadster and our powertrain sales and development activities with our strategic partners. We expect sales of the Tesla Roadster to grow over 2010, but expect some seasonality during the winter months. We have a supply agreement with Lotus to purchase a minimum of 2,400 Tesla Roadster vehicles or gliders. Through December 31, 2010, we have delivered over 1,500 vehicles. We currently intend to manufacture the majority of our gliders with Lotus for our current generation Tesla Roadster until January 2012, and we intend to use these gliders in the manufacturing of the Tesla Roadster to both fulfill orders placed in 2011 as well as new orders placed in 2012 until our supply of gliders is exhausted. Accordingly, we intend to offer a limited number of Tesla Roadsters for sale in 2012. To the extent we wish to sell additional Tesla Roadsters with the Lotus gliders beyond the number of vehicles we have contracted for, we will need to negotiate a new or amended supply agreement with Lotus but may be unable to do so on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. We do not currently plan to begin selling our next generation Tesla Roadster until at least one year after the launch of the Model S and we intend to perform such manufacturing entirely in our own facilities. Continued difficult economic conditions, competition from third parties and the planned availability of the Model S in 2012 could result in depressed sales of the Tesla Roadster in 2011. We expect to continue to experience seasonality for sales of the Tesla Roadster. We also anticipate that we will place greater sales emphasis on the generation of Model S reservations during the second half of 2011 as we work towards the launch of our planned Model S in mid-2012. As a result of our expanded electric powertrain supply and development services activities with our strategic partners in 2010, we will have significant deliveries and milestones to achieve in 2011. Along with the supply of battery packs and chargers for Daimlers Smart fortwo EV and A-Class programs, we will also have important development milestones and prototypes to deliver to Toyota as part of our Toyota RAV4 agreements. Although our current agreements with Daimler and Toyota provide us with increased revenue potential in 2011 from powertrain-related activities, we do not yet have finalized any agreements with Daimler or Toyota for significant sales or services beyond 2011. 79 Table of Contents Model S development will continue to be a primary focus for 2011. Ensuring that our engineering, operations and manufacturing engineering teams execute on all significant activities will be critical to a timely launch of our Model S in mid-2012. Our progress towards our beta prototype activities as well as readiness of our manufacturing capabilities, will influence our ability to achieve the manufacturing cost per unit that we are currently projecting. In 2011, we publicly announced the Tesla Model X as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. We are designing the Model X as a crossover vehicle. We intend to develop a prototype of the Model X by the end of 2011. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles, including the Tesla Model X, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Our operating expenses are expected to increase in 2011 as we continue to execute on the Model S program, systematically and strategically expand our sales and marketing activities globally to support the launch of the Model S, as well as to maintain and support the overall activities of a growing public company. As we continue to make significant investments in research and development and our infrastructure to launch the Model S, we expect to continue generating a net loss despite anticipated growth in revenues and improvements in margin. Cost control within our operations, especially in general and administrative, continues to be an important objective. Capital spending for the Model S program is anticipated to be at its highest level in 2011, as we plan to purchase much of the tooling and manufacturing equipment required for production. Inclusive of non-Model S related investments, aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 are expected to be in the range of $190 million to $215 million. The majority of these capital investments should be reimbursable under the terms of our DOE Loan Facility. With this level of capital spending, we can execute on our strategic decision to increase in-sourcing, primarily in stampings and plastics. We have also elected to invest incrementally in new technologies, primarily in our paint and body shops, to produce vehicles at a higher quality at an affordable cost. Furthermore, we are investing in additional plant automation which provides us with the flexibility to expand capacity to produce up to 20,000 units on just one shift. This investment would have a relatively short payback in terms of saved labor and overhead costs. Additionally, plant automation will allow us to accommodate either higher Model S production or the efficient introduction of future models. As significant capital investment is required to bring our Fremont facility and Model S manufacturing assets to a state of production readiness, all depreciation of our capital expenditures related to the Fremont facility will begin with the start of Model S production. Unadjusted Error in 2009 In June 2010, we identified an error related to the understatement in stock-based compensation expense subsequent to the issuance of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we granted certain stock options for which a portion of the grant was immediately vested. We erroneously accounted for the expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the award, while expense recognition should always be at least commensurate with the number of awards vesting during the period. As a result, selling, general and administrative expenses and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 were understated by $2.7 million. The error did not have an effect on the valuation of the stock options. As stock-based compensation expense is a non-cash item, there was no impact on net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009. To correct this error, we recorded additional stock-based compensation of $2.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2010. We considered the impact of the error on reported operating expenses and trends in 80 Table of Contents operating results and determined that the impact of the error was not material to previously reported financial information as well as those related to the three months ended June 30, 2010. We also evaluated this control deficiency in the context of our internal control over financial reporting and based on the magnitude, nature and extent of the error, determined that such deficiency would be considered a significant deficiency. A significant deficiency is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for the oversight of the companys financial reporting. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Automotive Sales We recognize automotive sales revenue from sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle, or ZEV, credits. We also recognize automotive sales revenue from the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components, such as battery packs and battery chargers, to other manufacturers. We recognize revenue when (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred and there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; (iii) fees are fixed or determinable; and (iv) collection is reasonably assured. Automotive sales consist primarily of revenue earned from the sale of vehicles. Sales or other amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. Prior to February 2010, we did not provide direct financing for the purchase of the Tesla Roadster although a third-party lender has provided financing arrangements to our customers in the United States. Under these arrangements we have been paid in full by the customer at the time of purchase. Starting in February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States. Automotive sales also consist of revenue earned from the sales of vehicle options, accessories and destination charges. While these sales may take place separately from a vehicle sale, they are often part of one vehicle sale agreement resulting in multiple element arrangements. Contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for recognition of our revenue, including whether the deliverables specified in the multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting, and, if so, how the price should be allocated among the elements, when to recognize revenue for each element, and the period over which revenue should be recognized. We are also required to evaluate whether a delivered item has value on a stand-alone basis prior to delivery of the remaining items by determining whether we have made separate sales of such items or whether the undelivered items are essential to the functionality of the delivered items. Further, we assess whether we know the fair value of the undelivered items, determined by reference to stand-alone sales of such items. 81 Table of Contents To date, we have been able to establish the fair value for each of the deliverables within the multiple element arrangements because we sell each of the vehicles, vehicle accessories and options separately, outside of any multiple element arrangements. As each of these items has stand alone value to the customer, revenue from sales of vehicle accessories and options are recognized when those specific items are delivered to the customer. Increased complexity to our sales agreements or changes in our judgments and estimates regarding application of these revenue recognition guidelines could result in a change in the timing or amount of revenue recognized in future periods. Development Services Revenue from development services arrangements consist of revenue earned from the development of electric vehicle powertrain components for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs and chargers to meet a customers specifications. Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we started entering into such contracts with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. Revenue is recognized as a development arrangement is finalized, the performance requirements of each development arrangement are met and collection is reasonably assured. Where development arrangements include substantive at-risk milestones, revenue is recognized based upon the achievement of the contractually-defined milestones. Amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2010, we had deferred $4.0 million in revenue related to development services being performed for Toyota. Increased complexity to our development agreements or changes in our judgments and estimates regarding application of these revenue recognition guidelines could result in a change in the timing or amount of revenue recognized in future periods. Costs of development services are expensed as incurred. Costs of development services incurred in periods prior to the finalization of an agreement are recorded as research and development expenses; once an agreement is finalized, these costs are recorded in cost of development services. Prior to 2010, compensation from the Smart fortwo development arrangement with Daimler, which is discussed below under Development Compensation, was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. This early arrangement was motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage Daimler and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. Development Compensation We began receiving payments under the Smart fortwo development arrangement with Daimler in the year ended December 31, 2008 to compensate us for the cost of our development activities. We deferred recognition for these payments received in advance of the execution of the final agreement because a number of significant contractual terms were not in place prior to that time. Upon entering into the final agreement in May 2009, we began recognizing the deferred development compensation as an offset to our research and development expenses on a straight-line basis. This amount was recognized over the expected life of the agreement, beginning in May 2009 and continuing through November 2009. Payments that we received upon the achievement of development milestones subsequent to contract execution in May 2009 were recognized upon achievement and acceptance of the respective milestones. All amounts received under this development agreement have been recognized as an offset to our research and development expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. All development activities under this agreement were completed as of December 31, 2009. Inventory Valuation We value our inventories at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory write-downs for estimated 82 Table of Contents obsolescence or unmarketable inventories based upon assumptions about future demand forecasts. If our inventory on hand is in excess of our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written off. We also review inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the estimated cost to convert inventory on hand into a finished product. Once inventory is written-down, a new, lower-cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded write-downs of $1.0 million and $1.4 million, in cost of automotive sales, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded write-downs of $3.7 million to research and development expenses and $0.6 million to cost of automotive sales. The inventory amounts are based on our current estimates of demand, selling prices and production costs. Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change, material changes to these reserves may be required. Further, a small change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. Warranties We accrue warranty reserves at the time a vehicle or powertrain component is delivered to a customer. Warranty reserves include managements best estimate of the projected costs to repair or to replace any items under warranty, based on actual warranty experience as it becomes available and other known factors that may impact our evaluation of historical data. We review our reserves at least quarterly to ensure that our accruals are adequate in meeting expected future warranty obligations, and we will adjust our estimates as needed. Initial warranty data can be limited early in the launch of a new vehicle or powertrain component and accordingly, the adjustments that we record may be material. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $5.4 million and $3.8 million in warranty reserves, respectively. Adjustments to warranty reserves are recorded in cost of automotive sales. It is likely that as we sell additional Tesla Roadsters and powertrain components, we will acquire additional information on the projected costs to repair or to replace items under warranty and may need to make additional adjustments. Further, a small change in our warranty estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. Valuation of Stock-Based Awards, Common Stock and Warrants Stock-Based Compensation We use the fair value method of accounting for our stock options granted to employees which requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the stock options, based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair value of the awards is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award, usually the vesting period which is generally four years. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of forfeitures. The fair value of each new employee option awarded was estimated on the grant date for the periods below using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions. 2010 2009 2008 Risk-free interest rate 2.0% 2.2% 2.2% Expected term (in years) 5.3 4.6 4.6 Expected volatility 71% 64% 53% Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 83 Table of Contents If in the future we determine that another method for calculating the fair value of our stock options is more reasonable, or if another method for calculating the above input assumptions is prescribed by authoritative guidance, the fair value calculated for our employee stock options could change significantly. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. Further, the forfeiture rate also affects the amount of aggregate compensation. These inputs are subjective and generally require significant judgment. The risk-free interest rate that we use is based on the United States Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant for zero coupon United States Treasury notes with maturities approximating each grants expected life. Given our limited history with employee grants, we use the simplified method in estimating the expected term for our employee grants. The simplified method, as permitted by the SEC, is calculated as the average of the time-to-vesting and the contractual life of the options. Our expected volatility is derived from the historical volatilities of several unrelated public companies within industries related to our business, including the automotive OEM, automotive retail, automotive parts and battery technology industries, because we have no trading history on our common stock. When making the selections of our peer companies within industries related to our business to be used in the volatility calculation, we also considered the stage of development, size and financial leverage of potential comparable companies. Our historical volatility is weighted based on certain qualitative factors and combined to produce a single volatility factor. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on an analysis of our actual forfeitures and will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover behavior and other factors. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant effect on reported stock-based compensation expense, as the cumulative effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If a revised forfeiture rate is higher than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in a decrease to the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. If a revised forfeiture rate is lower than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in an increase to the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. As we accumulate additional employee option data over time and as we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate significantly different volatilities, expected lives and forfeiture rates, which could materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in our cost of sales, research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. We account for stock options issued to nonemployees also based on their estimated fair value determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. However, the fair value of the equity awards granted to nonemployees is re-measured as the awards vest, and the resulting increase in value, if any, is recognized as expense during the period the related services are rendered. Common Stock Valuation Upon the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, our common stock has been valued by reference to its publicly traded price. Prior to the IPO, we historically granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common stock as determined at the date of grant by our Board of Directors. Because there has been no public market for our common stock, our Board of Directors determined the fair value of our common stock by considering a number of objective and subjective factors, including the following: our sales of convertible preferred stock to unrelated third parties; our operating and financial performance; the lack of liquidity of our capital stock; 84 Table of Contents trends in our industry; arms length, third-party sales of our stock; and contemporaneous valuations performed by an unrelated third-party. There is inherent uncertainty in these estimates and if we had made different assumptions than those used, the amount of our stock-based compensation expense, net loss and net loss per share amounts could have been significantly different. The following table summarizes, by grant date, the number of stock options granted since January 1, 2008 through the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, and the associated per share exercise price, which equaled the fair value of our common stock for each of these grants. Grant Date Number of Options Granted Exercise Price and Fair Value per Share of Common Stock June 4, 2008 762,137 $ 2.70 July 8, 2008 278,308 2.70 September 3, 2008 200,155 2.70 October 29, 2008 205,156 2.70 March 2, 2009 214,813 2.70 April 13, 2009 1,005,837 2.70 April 22, 2009 105,184 2.70 August 4, 2009 323,063 2.94 October 21, 2009 590,638 6.15 December 4, 2009 7,977,444 6.63 December 16, 2009 58,995 6.63 March 3, 2010 402,660 9.96 April 28, 2010 256,320 13.23 June 12, 2010 1,135,710 14.17 Included in the December 4, 2009 awards, were 6,711,972 stock options granted to our Chief Executive Officer comprised of two grants. In recognition of his and our companys achievements and to create incentives for future success, the Board of Directors approved an option grant representing 4% of our fully-diluted share base prior to such grant as of December 4, 2009, or 3,355,986 stock options, with 1/4th of the shares vesting immediately, and 1/36th of the remaining shares scheduled to vest each month over three years, assuming continued employment through each vesting date. In addition, to create incentives for the attainment of clear performance objectives around a key element of our current business planthe successful launch and commercialization of the Model Sthe Board of Directors approved additional options totaling an additional 4% of our fully-diluted shares prior to such grant as of December 4, 2009, with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of performance objectives as follows, assuming Mr. Musks continued service to us through each vesting date: 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the successful completion of the Model S Engineering Prototype; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the successful completion of the Model S Validation Prototype; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the completion of the first Model S Production Vehicle; and 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the completion of the 10,000th Model S Production Vehicle. 85 Table of Contents If Mr. Musk does not meet one or more of the above milestones prior to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant, he will forfeit his right to the unvested portion of the grant. Included in our June and September 2010 stock option grants were 666,300 and 20,000 stock options granted respectively, to various members of our senior management with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of the same performance objectives as those outlined for Mr. Musk above. Prior to our IPO which was completed on July 2, 2010, our Board of Directors performed valuations of our common stock for purposes of granting stock options in a manner consistent with the methods outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation . The enterprise value input of our common stock valuations were derived either using fundamental analysis (income and market approaches) or based on a recent round of financing (option pricing approach). The income approach estimates the enterprise value of the company by discounting the expected future cash flows of the company to present value. We have applied discount rates that reflect the risks associated with our cash flow projections and have used venture capital rates of return for companies at a similar stage of development as us, as a proxy for our cost of capital. Our discounted cash flow calculations are sensitive to highly subjective assumptions that we were required to make at each valuation date relating to appropriate discount rates for various components of our business. For example, the discount rates used to value the cash flow projections from the Model S business factored in the low cost debt we expected to raise from the U.S. Department of Energy. Valuation Date Range of Discount Rates May 15, 2008 30.0 40.0 % December 31, 2008 30.0 40.0 % February 28, 2009 30.0 40.0 % May 11, 2009 16.2 34.8 % August 1, 2009 16.2 34.8 % October 15, 2009 12.4 27.1 % November 27, 2009 12.4 27.1 % February 23, 2010 11.4 20.0 % April 21, 2010 14.4 20.0 % June 9, 2010 14.5 20.0 % Our projected cash flows have been primarily derived from our Tesla Roadster, Model S and powertrain revenue streams. In more recent valuations, these cash flow projections take into account the fact that we have been selling the Tesla Roadster since 2008, that we began selling powertrain components in the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and our anticipation of Model S production in mid-2012. Under the market approach, the total enterprise value of the company is estimated by comparing our business to similar businesses whose securities are actively traded in public markets, or businesses that are involved in a public or private transaction. Prior transactions in our stock are also considered as part of the market approach methodology. We have selected revenue valuation multiples derived from trading multiples of public companies that participate in the automotive OEM, automotive retail, automotive parts and battery technology industries. These valuation multiples were then applied to the equivalent financial metric of our business, giving consideration to differences between our company and similar companies for such factors as company size and growth prospects. For those reports that relied on the fundamental analysis, we prepared a financial forecast to be used in the computation of the enterprise value for both the market approach and the income approach. The financial forecasts took into account our past experience and future expectations. The risks associated with achieving these forecasts were assessed in selecting the appropriate discount rate. As discussed below, there is inherent 86 Table of Contents uncertainty in these estimates. Second, we allocated the resulting equity value among the securities that comprise our capital structure using the Option-Pricing Method. The aggregate value of the common stock derived from the Option-Pricing Method was then divided by the number of common shares outstanding to arrive at the per common share value. For those reports before our IPO that relied on the recent round of financing, we back-solved for the total equity value such that the value of the instrument sold in the recent round as calculated by the option pricing model was consistent with the observed transaction price. Our Board of Directors considered the valuations derived from the approaches above, the probability and timing of completing an IPO as of those dates, as well as other qualitative factors in arriving at our common stock valuations, including the following: significant operating losses since inception; macroeconomic uncertainty in 2008; the absence of a significant IPO market throughout 2008 and continuing through the second quarter of 2009; and other market developments that influence forecasted revenue. Valuations that we have performed require significant use of estimates and assumptions. If different estimates and assumptions had been used, our common stock valuations could be significantly different and related stock-based compensation expense may be materially impacted. Warrants We have accounted for our freestanding warrants to purchase shares of our convertible preferred stock as liabilities at fair value upon issuance. We have recorded the warrants as a liability because the underlying shares of convertible preferred stock are contingently redeemable and, therefore, may obligate us to transfer assets at some point in the future. The warrants are subject to re-measurement to fair value at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as a component of other expense, net on the consolidated statements of operations. In January 2010, we issued a warrant to the DOE in connection with the closing of the DOE Loan Facility to purchase shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock at an exercise price of $2.51 per share. This convertible preferred stock warrant became a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share upon the closing of our IPO in July 2010. Beginning on December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under the warrant will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of the DOE Loan Facility during the prior quarter. The warrant may be exercised until December 15, 2023. If we prepay the DOE Loan Facility in part or in full, the total amount of shares exercisable under the warrant will be reduced. Since the number of shares of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant will vary, this warrant will be carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value reflected in other expense, net, until its expiration or vesting. Our ability to prepay the DOE Loan Facility and consequently, the number of shares ultimately issuable under the DOE warrant, was determined to represent an embedded derivative. This embedded derivative is inherently valued and accounted for as part of the warrant. Since the number of shares ultimately issuable under the DOE warrants will vary depending on the average outstanding balance of the loan during the contractual vesting period, and decisions to prepay would be influenced by our future stock price as well as the interest rates on our loans in relation to market interest rates, we measured the fair value of the DOE warrant using a Monte Carlo simulation approach. The Monte Carlo approach simulates various scenarios and captures the optimal decisions to be made between prepaying the DOE loan and the cancellation of the DOE warrant over the expected term of the DOE Loan Facility of 13 years. For the purposes of the simulation, the optimal decision represents the scenario with the lowest economic cost to us. The total warrant value would then be calculated as the average warrant payoff across all simulated paths discounted to our valuation date. 87 Table of Contents The significant assumptions that we use in the valuation of the DOE warrant include similar assumptions used in the valuation of otherwise featureless stock warrants at various simulated stock prices, as well as the interest rate differential between the interest rates under our DOE Loan Facility and market interest rates for companies comparable to us. The estimated value of our stock warrant requires us to use a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which incorporates several assumptions that are subject to significant management judgment as is the case for stock-based compensation discussed above. The differential between the interest rates under our DOE Loan Facility and market interest rates is derived from the credit spread data of several unrelated public companies within industries related to our business. As the average simulated value of our stock warrant increases relative to the credit spread of our comparator companies, the fair value of our DOE warrant decreases since the economic cost of prepaying our outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility and replacing the funds with market interest rate debt, would be lower than the economic cost associated with the dilution caused by the vesting of warrants. Similarly, as the credit spread of our comparator companies increases relative to the average simulated value of our stock warrant, the fair value of our DOE warrant increases since the economic cost associated with prepaying our outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility and replacing the funds with market interest rate debt is higher than the economic cost associated with the dilution caused by the vesting of warrants, and therefore, we would not prepay our outstanding DOE debt and we would allow a higher number of warrants to vest. Prior to completion of our IPO, the fair value of the DOE warrant was included within the convertible preferred stock warrant liability on the consolidated balance sheet. Upon the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, this warrant was reclassified on our consolidated balance sheet from convertible preferred stock warrant liability to common stock warrant liability. The DOE warrant will continue to be recorded at its estimated fair value with changes in the fair value reflected in other expense, net, as the number of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant is variable until its expiration or vesting. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the DOE warrant was $6.1 million. The relative movements in our stock price as compared to the credit spread of our comparator companies will result in fair value changes being recorded in other expense, net, in future periods which may be significant. Excluding the warrant issued to the DOE in January 2010, we have estimated the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrants at the respective balance sheet dates using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model which used several assumptions that are subject to significant management judgment as is the case for stock-based compensation as discussed above. Upon the completion of our IPO in July 2010, these convertible preferred stock warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2010, were net exercised and the related convertible preferred stock warrant liability was settled. Income Taxes We record our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations by estimating our taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We estimate our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences arising from differing treatment of items recognized for financial reporting versus tax return purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. In general, deferred tax assets represent future tax benefits to be received when certain expenses previously recognized in our consolidated statements of operations become deductible expenses under applicable income tax laws, or loss or credit carryforwards are utilized. Valuation allowances are recorded when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We make these estimates and judgments about our future taxable income that are based on assumptions that are consistent with our future plans. As of December 31, 2010, we had recorded a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets because we expect that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of our valuation allowance could be materially impacted. 88 Table of Contents Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result, we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes, such as net operating losses, based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that those positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are required to file income tax returns in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our accounting consideration is adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a material change in estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The eventual impact on our income tax expense depends in part if we still have a valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets in the period that such determination is made. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update which requires companies to allocate revenue in multiple-element arrangements based on an elements estimated selling price if vendor-specific or other third-party evidence of value is not available. The guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2011 with early application permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the standard on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures which requires a reporting entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level I and Level II fair value measurements and to describe the reasons for the transfers. In addition, in the reconciliation of fair value measurements using Level III inputs, a reporting entity will be required to disclose information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross rather than on a net basis. The updated guidance will also require fair value disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and non-recurring Level II and Level III fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective for interim or annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures regarding the reconciliation of Level III fair value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which provides guidance on the criteria to be followed in recognizing revenue under the milestone method. The milestone method of recognition allows a vendor who is involved with the provision of deliverables to recognize the full amount of a milestone payment upon achievement if, at the inception of the revenue arrangement, the milestone is determined to be substantive as defined in the standard. The guidance is effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect the adoption of the updated guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 89 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues Automotive sales $ 97,078 $ 111,943 $ 14,742 Development services 19,666 Total revenues 116,744 111,943 14,742 Cost of revenues Automotive sales 79,982 102,408 15,883 Development services 6,031 Total cost of revenues 86,013 102,408 15,883 Gross profit (loss) 30,731 9,535 (1,141 ) Operating expenses Research and development (net of development compensation of $23,249 for the year ended December 31, 2009) 92,996 19,282 53,714 Selling, general and administrative 84,573 42,150 23,649 Total operating expenses 177,569 61,432 77,363 Loss from operations (146,838 ) (51,897 ) (78,504 ) Interest income 258 159 529 Interest expense (992 ) (2,531 ) (3,747 ) Other expense, net (6,583 ) (1,445 ) (963 ) Loss before income taxes (154,155 ) (55,714 ) (82,685 ) Provision for income taxes 173 26 97 Net loss $ (154,328 ) $ (55,740 ) $ (82,782 ) Revenues Automotive Sales Automotive sales consisted of the following for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Vehicle, options and related sales $ 75,459 $ 111,555 $ 14,742 Powertrain component and related sales 21,619 388 Total automotive sales $ 97,078 $ 111,943 $ 14,742 Automotive sales during the year ended December 31, 2010 were $97.1 million, a decrease from $111.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. Automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted of $75.5 million of vehicle, options and related sales, and $21.6 million of powertrain component and related sales, compared to $111.6 million of vehicle, options and related sales and $0.4 million of powertrain component and related sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. Automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $14.7 million, comprised primarily of sales of the Tesla Roadster which we began to deliver in the fourth quarter of 2008 as well as related zero emission vehicle, or ZEV, credits. Almost all of the revenue recognized during the year ended December 31, 2008, came from fulfilling reservations placed in prior periods. 90 Table of Contents During the first three quarters of 2009, we continued to fulfill reservations for the Tesla Roadster and we had made a significant effort to increase our production capacity in order to accelerate deliveries to customers who had been on our waitlist for a significant amount of time. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue recognized during the first three quarters of 2009 came from fulfilling reservations placed prior to 2009. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2009, sales of the Tesla Roadster began more closely approximating the level of orders placed during the quarter. Consequently, the comparison of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the year ended December 31, 2009 may not be meaningful. As such, vehicle, options and related sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were more reflective of current demand as compared to the prior year. Similarly, ZEV credit sales which are included in vehicle, options and related sales, were higher during the year ended December 31, 2009 as the fulfillment of a significant number of reservations allowed us to sell a larger number of ZEV credits. The year over year decrease in vehicle deliveries was partially offset by higher selling prices from an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers as well as higher average selling prices outside of the United States. In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases and accordingly, we recognize leasing revenues on a straight-line basis over the term of the individual leases. Lease revenues are recorded in vehicle, options and related sales within automotive sales revenue and for the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $0.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 14% of the vehicles delivered during the year were under operating leases. As of December 31, 2010, we had deferred revenues of $1.1 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. Powertrain component and related sales were comprised primarily of battery packs and chargers that we delivered to supply Daimlers Smart fortwo program. We have been selected by Daimler to supply it with up to 1,800 battery packs and chargers to support a trial of the Smart fortwo electric drive in at least five European cities. We began delivering and recognizing revenue for these production battery packs and chargers at the end of 2009. Prior to 2010, most of our revenues had been generated through sales of our vehicles in the United States and we had no revenues from sales outside of the United States prior to the third quarter of 2009. Our international sales commenced with the launch of the Tesla Roadster in Europe in July 2009 and since then, we have recognized revenue from sales of the Tesla Roadster in additional countries including Canada, Japan and Hong Kong. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, 55% and 19% of our revenue from vehicle, options and related sales, respectively, were derived outside of the United States. All of our powertrain component and related sales were derived outside of the United States. As we continue to expand into additional new markets, we expect our international automotive sales to increase in aggregate dollar amounts but to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of total revenues. While revenue related to servicing vehicles has been insignificant to date, we expect such revenues to increase in future periods as we sell more vehicles and as vehicle warranties begin to expire. Development Services Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we started entering into development services arrangements with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. We began recognizing development services revenue during the first quarter of 2010 with the development and delivery of modular battery packs for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, or Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler. These battery packs were to be used in electric delivery vans in a limited number of Freightliners customer trials. Prior to 2010, compensation that we had received from our first development arrangement with Daimler 91 Table of Contents for battery packs and chargers for its Smart fortwo program, was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. This early arrangement was motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage Daimler and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. During the first quarter of 2010, Daimler also engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. We began providing development services for this program during the first quarter of 2010 and had received an aggregate of $5.5 million in payments; however, as we had not executed a final agreement related to this program as of March 31, 2010, we deferred the $5.5 million of payments that had been received from Daimler to that point. In May 2010, we executed a final agreement under which Daimler would make additional payments to us for the successful completion of certain development milestones and the delivery of prototype samples. As of December 31, 2010, we had completed our deliverables under this agreement and for the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $14.4 million in development services revenue. In July 2010, we and Toyota entered into a Phase 0 agreement to initiate development of an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. Under this early phase development agreement, prototypes would be made by us by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we began producing and delivering prototypes to Toyota and recognized $1.0 million in development services revenue. In October 2010, we entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to this agreement, Toyota will pay us up to $60.0 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term of our performance, including a $5.0 million upfront payment that we received upon the execution of the agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we completed the first milestone and along with the amortization of our upfront payment, we recognized $3.3 million in development services revenue. We intend to grow our development services revenue over time by establishing additional commercial arrangements with Daimler, Toyota and other automobile manufacturers. Additionally, we expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $86.0 million, a decrease from $102.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in cost of revenues was driven primarily by the significant number of vehicles delivered during the first three quarters of 2009 from fulfilling customer reservations placed prior to 2009. In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases and accordingly, we record cost of automotive sales equal to the depreciation of the leased vehicles on a straight-line basis over the term of the individual leases. Cost of automotive sales related to leased vehicles was $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in cost of revenues from automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 was partially offset by the increase in cost of revenues from development services. Cost of development services includes 92 Table of Contents engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. During the quarter ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs related to this program in cost of revenues. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $30.7 million, an increase from $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was driven primarily by the gross profit contributed by our development services revenues which we began to recognize in 2010; an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers; the continued launch of the Tesla Roadster internationally, where in certain markets, we have experienced higher selling prices; and cost improvements associated with the model changeover from the Tesla Roadster to the Tesla Roadster 2 during the second half of 2009. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 was also favorably impacted by the fact that certain of the A-Class development services revenue that we recognized during the year ended December 31, 2010 did not have any corresponding cost of revenues, since these costs were recorded in research and development expenses prior to us finalizing the development agreement in May 2010. Cost of revenues of $102.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased from $15.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The significant increase in cost of revenues was due to the increase in Tesla Roadster sales from which we began to recognize revenue during the fourth quarter of 2008; higher warranty expense; and the model changeover from the Tesla Roadster to the Tesla Roadster 2 as well as significant part changes implemented to improve the design and reduce per unit costs, for which we recorded charges to cost of revenues in the amount of $1.4 million for excess and obsolete inventory during the year ended December 31, 2009. Gross loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1.1 million due to the lower average selling prices for our initial vehicles, the high materials and manufacturing costs associated with our first generation Tesla Roadster and limited economies of scale from low vehicle production volumes. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $9.5 million benefited from higher per unit revenue and reduced manufacturing cost from increased volume and component re-design. We expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. This may cause our gross profit and gross margin to be similarly impacted. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $93.0 million, an increase from $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Research and development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009 included $23.2 million in Daimler Smart fortwo development compensation which was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The $73.7 million increase in research and 93 Table of Contents development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of a $25.0 million increase in employee cash and stock-based compensation expenses primarily associated with significantly higher headcount to support our Model S and powertrain development activities, the $23.2 million Daimler development compensation offset recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009, a $10.5 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha build as well as powertrain development activities; a $10.7 million increase in professional and outside services costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities; and a $1.6 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, including our transition to our Palo Alto headquarters. During the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs associated with this program in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses of $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased from $53.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The $34.4 million decrease in research and development expenses was a result of the $23.2 million Daimler development compensation offset recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009, a $13.3 million decrease resulting from the allocation of various manufacturing-related costs to inventory and cost of sales once we transitioned into commercial production, a $3.2 million decrease in charges related to excess and obsolescence, adverse purchase commitments and materials and tooling expense due both to the classification of production-related costs to cost of sales once we transitioned into commercial production as well as lower outside professional services, partially offset by a $5.5 million increase in employee compensation expenses associated with higher headcount for the year ended December 31, 2009. We began receiving payments under the Smart fortwo development arrangement with Daimler in the year ended December 31, 2008 to compensate us for the cost of our development activities. We deferred recognition for these payments received in advance of the execution of the final agreement because a number of significant contractual terms were not in place prior to that time. Upon entering into the final agreement in May 2009, we began recognizing, as an offset to our research and development expenses, the deferred development compensation of $14.5 million on a straight-line basis. This amount was recognized over the expected life of the agreement, beginning in May 2009 and continuing through November 2009. Payments that we received upon the achievement of development milestones subsequent to contract execution in May 2009, were recognized, as an offset to our research and development expenses, upon achievement and acceptance of the respective milestones. We did not recognize any development compensation from Daimler during the year ended December 31, 2008. Since the commercial launch of the Tesla Roadster, our investment in related research and development has decreased significantly. We have, however, significantly increased our research and development efforts for the Model S, which has resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses in both aggregate dollar amounts and as a percentage of our revenues. We anticipate that this trend will continue on an annual basis as we incur additional costs to develop the Model S and to operate our planned Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California prior to the start of Model S production. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. 94 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $84.6 million, an increase from $42.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The $42.4 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of a $15.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards, expense related to performance-based awards, an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants made in 2010, and the $2.4 million correction of additional stock-based compensation expense that should have been recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009; a $13.4 million increase in employee cash compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support a larger number of stores in the United States and Europe and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business; a $7.1 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, including the opening of new stores and service locations and our transition to our Palo Alto headquarters; a $3.2 million increase in travel and expenses related to our sales and marketing activities; and a $1.0 million increase in professional services costs related to ongoing trademark and patent work, recruiting, as well as general corporate development activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses of $42.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased from $23.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The $18.6 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009 consisted primarily of an $8.4 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support our opening of additional stores in the United States and Europe, as well as higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business and our efforts to become a public company; a $4.7 million increase in office, information technology and facilities costs to support the growth of our business, including the opening of new stores; a $2.0 million increase in legal services and legal settlements and accounting and other consulting services to support our growth; and a $1.3 million increase in costs principally related to increased marketing activities. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase both in aggregate dollar amounts and as a percentage of revenue in future periods as we continue to grow and expand our operations, increase our sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence and prepare for the planned Model S commercial launch in mid-2012, and as we support the requirements of being a public company. We also expect an increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of our planned increase in the number of Tesla stores. As of December 31, 2010, we had opened Tesla stores in the United States, Europe and Japan. We plan to open additional stores during 2011. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.0 million, a decrease from $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2009 was primarily related to our convertible notes which were converted into shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock in May 2009, while interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility which we began accessing in 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we capitalized $0.8 million of interest expense to assets under construction. Interest expense of $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased from $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest expense was due to the conversion of our convertible notes into shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock in May 2009. We expect interest expense to increase as we continue to draw down on the DOE Loan Facility to fund our Model S and powertrain activities. 95 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our warrant liabilities and transaction gains and losses on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our transaction gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Income or charges resulting from the change in the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrant liability, excluding the DOE warrant liability, was eliminated after July 2, 2010, as these warrants were net exercised at the completion of our IPO. The DOE convertible preferred stock warrant which we issued in January 2010, became a common stock warrant on July 2 and is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other expense, net, until its expiration or vesting. Other expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $6.6 million, an increase in expense compared to other expense, net, of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the fair value changes in our warrant liabilities as well as the liability related to common stock warrants to certain of our stockholders which we issued in May 2010, both of which increased significantly in conjunction with the increase in our common stock valuation. Other expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased from $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily a result of a $1.8 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses associated with a higher level of foreign currency denominated purchases as well as the strengthening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in the fair value change of our outstanding convertible preferred stock warrants during the year ended December 31, 2009. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $0.2 million, an increase from the provision for income taxes of $26,000 during the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was due primarily to the launch of the Tesla Roadster in Europe in July 2009 and the ensuing increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions in subsequent periods. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized research and development benefits from our foreign operations which decreased our provision for income taxes. Our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased from the provision for income taxes of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was due primarily to the research and development benefits that we recognized in 2009 from our foreign operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2010, we had $566.4 million principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $99.6 million which included investments in money market funds, cash of $73.6 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and $393.2 million available under the DOE Loan Facility, which is primarily intended to cover spending related to the development of the Model S and our powertrain activities. Our primary source of cash historically has been proceeds from the sales of convertible preferred stock and convertible notes, and through December 31, 2009, we had raised an aggregate of $319.2 million from convertible preferred stock and convertible note financings. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we entered into our $465.0 million DOE Loan Facility from which we have begun to make draw downs, as well as completing our IPO and private placements with Toyota and Panasonic. Other sources of cash have also included reservation payments from customers for the Tesla Roadster and more recently from sales of the Tesla Roadster, 96 Table of Contents cash from the provision of electric powertrain development services, sales of powertrain components, draw downs from the DOE Loan Facility and refundable reservation payments for our Model S. We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility, together with our anticipated cash from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our operations through the anticipated initial customer deliveries of the Model S. This capital will fund our ongoing operations, continue research, development and design efforts, establish sales and service centers, improve infrastructure such as expanded battery assembly facilities, and to make the investments in tooling and manufacturing capital required to introduce the Model S. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles, investments in new technologies, increased insourcing of manufacturing capabilities, investments to expand our powertrain activities or further expand our sales and service network, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We may also choose to opportunistically raise additional funds if market conditions are favorable. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. DOE Loan Facility On January 20, 2010, we entered into our DOE Loan Facility for $465.0 million to support the expansion of our manufacturing operations. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million will be made available under the first term loan facility to finance the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components, or the Powertrain facility. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 91.5% of the costs eligible for funding for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan, or the Model S facility. Our obligations for the development of, and the build-out of our manufacturing facility for, the Model S is budgeted to be an aggregate of $33 million or approximately 8.5% of the ongoing budgeted cost, plus any cost overruns for the projects. Our ability to draw down funds under the DOE Loan Facility is conditioned upon several draw conditions. We are currently in compliance with these draw conditions. For the Powertrain facility, the draw conditions include our achievement of progress milestones relating to the successful development of commercial arrangements with third parties for the supply of powertrain components. For the Model S facility, the remaining draw conditions include our achievement of progress milestones relating to the design and development of the Model S and the planned Model S manufacturing facility. Certain advances will be subject to additional conditions to draw-down related to the site on which the applicable project is located. We are currently progressing towards our milestones. Additionally, the DOE Loan Facility provides for the ability to update milestones should a reasonable need arise. Loans may be requested under the facilities until January 22, 2013, and we have committed to complete the projects being financed prior to such date. Through December 31, 2010, we had received loans under the DOE Loan Facility for an aggregate of $71.8 million with interest rates ranging from 1.7% to 3.4%. In February 2011, we received additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility for $15.6 million at interest rates ranging from 2.6% to 3.0%. Interest on advances under the DOE Loan Facility is payable quarterly in arrears. Advances under the Powertrain Facility are repayable in 28 equal quarterly installments commencing on December 15, 2012 (or for advances made after such date, in 26 equal quarterly installments commencing on June 15, 2013). All outstanding amounts under the Powertrain Facility will be due and payable on the maturity date of September 15, 2019. Advances under the Model S Facility are repayable in 40 equal quarterly installments commencing on December 15, 2012 (or for advances made after such date, in 38 equal quarterly installments commencing on June 15, 2013). All outstanding amounts under the Model S Facility will be due and payable on the maturity date of September 15, 2022. Advances under the loan facilities may be voluntarily prepaid at any time. All obligations under the DOE Loan Facility are secured by substantially all of our property. 97 Table of Contents The DOE Loan Facility documents contain customary covenants that include, among others, a requirement that the projects be conducted in accordance with the business plan for such project, compliance with all requirements of the ATVM Program, and limitations on our and our subsidiaries ability to incur indebtedness, incur liens, make investments or loans, enter into mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets, pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock, pay indebtedness, pay management, advisory or similar fees to affiliates, enter into certain affiliate transactions, enter into new lines of business, and enter into certain restrictive agreements, in each case subject to customary exceptions. The DOE Loan Facility documents also contain customary financial covenants. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. The DOE Loan Facility documents also contain customary events of default, subject in some cases to customary cure periods for certain defaults. In addition, events of default include a failure of Elon Musk, our Chief Executive Officer, Product Architect and Chairman, and certain of his affiliates, at any time prior to one year after we complete the project relating to the Model S Facility, to own at least 65% of capital stock held by Mr. Musk and such affiliates as of the date of the DOE Loan Facility. In addition to our obligation to fund a portion of the project costs as described above, we have agreed to set aside 50% of the net proceeds from our IPO and the concurrent Toyota private placement and any subsequent offerings of stock occurring before the completion of the projects, up to an aggregate of $100 million, to fund a separate, dedicated account under our DOE Loan Facility. This dedicated account can be used by us to fund any cost overruns for our powertrain and Model S manufacturing facility projects and will also be used as a mechanism to defer advances under the DOE Loan Facility. This will not affect our ability to draw down the full amount of the DOE loans, but will require us to use the dedicated account to fund certain project costs up front, which costs may then be reimbursed by loans under the DOE Loan Facility once the dedicated account is depleted, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. We will be required to deposit a portion of these reimbursements into the dedicated account, in an amount equal to up to 30% of the remaining project costs for the applicable project and these amounts may similarly be used by us to fund project costs and cost overruns and will similarly be eligible for reimbursement by the draw-down of additional loans under our DOE Loan Facility once used in full, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. Upon the completion of our IPO and concurrent private placement on July 2, 2010, we transferred $100.0 million of the net proceeds from the IPO and the concurrent private placement to fund the dedicated account. During third and fourth quarters of 2010, we transferred $26.4 million from the dedicated account to our operating cash accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. As of December 31, 2010, $73.6 million remained in the dedicated account. As we expect to transfer the remainder of this balance within one year, we have recorded such cash as current restricted cash. In February 2011, we transferred an additional $15.6 million from the dedicated account. For additional information related to our DOE Loan Facility, please see Note 8 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Initial Public Offering and Toyota Concurrent Private Placement On June 28, 2010, our registration statement on Form S-1 relating to our IPO was declared effective by the SEC. The IPO closed on July 2, 2010, at which time we sold 11,880,600 shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of $188.8 million from this transaction, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. Additionally, we incurred offering costs of $4.4 million related to the IPO. Concurrent with the closing of our IPO, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota in a private placement transaction for aggregate proceeds of $50.0 million. Panasonic Private Placement In November 2010, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 1,418,573 shares of our common stock for aggregate proceeds of $30.0 million. 98 Table of Contents Leasing Activities In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary Tesla Motors Leasing, Inc., qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. When compared to our sales of vehicles, our leasing activities will spread the cash inflows that we would otherwise receive upon the sale of a vehicle, over the lease term and final disposition of the leased vehicle. As such, our cash and working capital requirements will be directly impacted and if leasing volume increases significantly, the impact may be material. However, after taking into consideration our current and planned sources of operating cash, our ability to monitor and prospectively adjust our leasing activity, as well as our intent to collect nonrefundable deposits for leased vehicles that are manufactured to specification, we do not believe that our planned leasing operations will materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments and obligations as they become due. As we will also be exposed to credit risk related to the timely collection of lease payments from our customers, we intend to utilize our credit approval and ongoing review processes in order to minimize any credit losses that could occur and which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to require deposits from customers electing a lease option for vehicles built to a customers specifications on the same timeframe and under the same circumstances as from customers purchasing our vehicles outright. During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 14% of the vehicles delivered during the period were under operating leases. As of December 31, 2010, we had deferred revenues of $1.1 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. Through December 31, 2010, our leasing activity has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. Reservation Payments A source of our cash flows from operations has been through our receipt of reservation payments from our customers. Reservation payments consist of reservation payments that allow potential customers to hold a reservation for the future purchase of a Tesla Roadster or Model S. For our 2010 model year Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial nonrefundable deposit which varies based on the country of purchase. For the Model S, we require an initial reservation payment of at least $5,000. For vehicles purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, our reservation policy was to accept reservation payments from all customers who wished to purchase a Tesla Roadster and require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle at the time the customer selected their vehicle specifications. During the second quarter of 2010, we changed our policy to require nonrefundable deposits for Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification at the time a customer enters into a purchase agreement. However, we also occasionally accept reservation payments for the Tesla Roadster if a customer is interested in purchasing a vehicle but not yet prepared to select the vehicle specifications. For customers who have placed a reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. The full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle is required only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. We do not believe that these changes will materially impact our liquidity or capital resources. Reservation payments for a vehicle are recorded as a current liability when received. No later than upon the delivery of a vehicle, the reservation payments collected on a customers account are applied against the total purchase price of the vehicle. Reservation payments are expected to fluctuate as the number of reservation holders on the Tesla Roadster reservation list decreases, while the number of reservation holders on the Model S reservation list increases. 99 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (127,817 ) $ (80,825 ) $ (52,412 ) Net cash used in investing activities (180,297 ) (14,244 ) (11,590 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 338,045 155,419 56,068 Cash Flows from Operating Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from operations as we expand our business and build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally. Since inception, we have incurred significant losses and have used approximately $330.6 million of cash in operations through December 31, 2010. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $127.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $154.3 million, which included non-cash charges of $21.2 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $10.6 million related to depreciation and amortization and $5.0 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liabilities. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $177.6 million of operating expenses, $86.0 million of cost of revenues, a $20.1 million increase in inventory, an $8.4 million increase in operating lease vehicles, and a $5.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $13.3 million increase in accrued liabilities and a $3.5 million increase in other long-term liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales while the increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business, as well as our increased manufacturing and Model S development activities. Operating lease vehicles increased with the introduction of our leasing program in 2010. Other long-term liabilities increased as a result of higher warranty liability from sales of the Tesla Roadster. Significant operating cash inflows for the year ended December 31, 2010 were derived primarily from automotive sales of $97.1 million, $19.7 million of development services revenue, a $4.8 million increase in deferred revenues and a $4.7 million increase in reservation payments, partially offset by a $3.2 million increase in accounts receivable. In October 2010, we entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Upon execution of the agreement, we received a $5.0 million upfront payment for which revenue is being recognized over the expected term of our performance. Deferred revenues also increased from our vehicle leasing activities as we are recognizing the lease down-payments over the term of the operating leases. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to powertrain component sales in relation to Daimlers Smart fortwo program as well as $2.3 million receivable from Toyota for the achievement of the first milestone under the Phase 1 contract services agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $10.4 million of net new reservation payments for the Model S while reservation payments for the Tesla Roadster decreased by $5.7 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $80.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. The largest component of our cash used during this year was the $55.7 million net loss, which included non-cash charges of $6.9 million related to depreciation and amortization, $2.7 million related to interest on convertible notes and $1.4 million related to inventory write-downs, as well as a non-cash gain of $1.5 million from the extinguishment of convertible notes and warrants. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $102.4 million of cost of revenues, $61.4 million of operating expenses, a $7.9 million increase in inventory and 100 Table of Contents a $2.0 million increase in our prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $3.4 million increase in accrued liabilities and a $0.9 million increase in accounts payable. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements while the increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets reflect a higher level of annual operating costs such as insurance, licenses and taxes from the growth of the business. The increases in accrued liabilities and accounts payable were also primarily due to the growth in our business. Significant operating cash inflows for the year ended December 31, 2009 were derived primarily from the sales of the Tesla Roadster as well as development compensation related to the Daimler development agreement. Cash inflows related to automotive sales activity were $88.5 million comprised of $111.9 million of automotive sales, partially offset by a $22.0 million decrease in refundable reservation payments and a $1.5 million decrease in deferred revenues. The decrease in the refundable reservation payments was due to the launch of the Tesla Roadster during the year ended December 31, 2008. As we continued to deliver the Tesla Roadster to our customers in 2009, we applied the related reservation payments to the respective customers purchase cost. Cash inflows from the Daimler development agreement were $13.2 million comprised primarily of $23.2 million of development compensation partially offset by a $10.0 million decrease in deferred development compensation. The decrease in deferred development compensation was the result of the amortization of deferred development compensation that we received during the year ended December 31, 2008. Net cash used in operating activities was $52.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The largest component of our cash used during this period, was the $82.8 million net loss, which included non-cash charges of $4.3 million related to inventory write-downs, $4.2 million related to depreciation and amortization, $3.7 million related to interest on convertible notes and $2.8 million related to the fair value change in our convertible preferred stock warrant liability, as well as a non-cash gain of $1.2 million from the extinguishment of convertible notes and warrants. Significant operating cash outflows were driven primarily by $77.4 million of operating expenses, $15.9 million of cost of sales, and an $18.8 million increase in inventory, partially offset by an $8.8 million increase in accounts payable and a $2.6 million increase in accrued liabilities. We had increased inventory in anticipation of the commercial introduction of the Tesla Roadster. Accrued liabilities and accounts payable increased primarily due to the significant increase in activities to bring the Tesla Roadster to production. We benefited from operating cash inflows related to Tesla Roadster reservation activity and our development efforts. Cash inflows derived from Tesla Roadster sales and reservation activity were $29.4 million comprised primarily of $14.7 million of automotive sales, a $10.7 million increase in refundable reservation payments and a $4.1 million increase in deferred revenues. Refundable reservation payments increased reflecting new reservation activity received during the year partially offset by the reservation payments we applied to our customers purchase cost as we began delivering Tesla Roadsters during the year ended December 31, 2008. Deferred revenues increased primarily from customer payments we collected for certain Tesla Roadsters that we had delivered but as to which we had unfulfilled obligations related to powertrain upgrades. We received cash from Daimler of $8.6 million for our development efforts during the year ended December 31, 2008 although the amounts were deferred entirely until we executed a final agreement in May 2009, which is reflected in the related increase in deferred development compensation of $10.2 million partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $1.6 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from investing activities as we expand our business, build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally and develop our Model S manufacturing capabilities. Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. Net cash used in investing activities was $180.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily related to capital purchases of $105.4 million and a net increase in restricted cash of $74.9 million. The increase 101 Table of Contents in capital purchases was driven primarily by $65.2 million of payments made in relation to our purchase of the manufacturing facility located in Fremont, California from NUMMI, and certain manufacturing assets located thereon to be used for our planned Model S manufacturing, as well as $40.2 million primarily related to other Model S capital expenditures, our transition to and build out of our powertrain manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, California, and purchases of manufacturing equipment. Our purchase transactions with NUMMI were completed in October 2010. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to $100.0 million of net proceeds from our IPO and concurrent Toyota private placement that we transferred to a dedicated account as required by our DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $26.4 million that was transferred out of the dedicated account during the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. Net cash used in investing activities was $14.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily related to capital purchases of $11.9 million and an increase in restricted cash of $2.4 million. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to standard credit policies required by our online payment vendor and security deposits related to lease agreements and equipment financing. Net cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily related to capital purchases of $10.6 million and an increase in restricted cash of $1.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities is expected to increase substantially in 2011 as we build out and tool our Model S manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, and our powertrain manufacturing facility in Palo Alto, California. We currently anticipate making aggregate capital expenditures of $190 million to $215 million during 2011. Cash Flows from Financing Activities We have financed our operations primarily with proceeds from issuances of convertible preferred stock and convertible notes, which provided us with aggregate net proceeds of $296.8 million on a cumulative basis through December 31, 2009, from loans under the DOE Loan Facility beginning in 2010, and more recently, from the net proceeds from our IPO and private placements. Cash provided by financing activities was $338.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 comprised primarily of $188.8 million in proceeds from our IPO, $71.8 million we received from our loans under the DOE Loan Facility, $50.0 million in proceeds from the Toyota private placement, $30.0 million in proceeds from the Panasonic private placement, partially offset by $3.7 million of issuance costs we incurred in relation to our DOE Loan Facility and our IPO. Cash provided by financing activities was $155.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 comprised primarily of $82.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Series E convertible preferred stock, $49.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Series E convertible preferred stock and $25.5 million in proceeds received from the issuance of convertible notes and warrants. Cash provided by financing activities was $56.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2008 comprised primarily of $54.8 million from the issuance of convertible promissory notes. 102 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2010 certain significant cash obligations that will affect our future liquidity (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and thereafter Operating lease obligations $ 53,431 $ 6,793 $ 6,625 $ 6,561 $ 6,431 $ 5,893 $ 21,128 Capital lease obligations 823 318 286 219 Long-term debt 71,828 2,198 8,791 8,791 8,791 43,257 Purchase obligations (1) 15,400 15,400 $ 141,482 $ 22,511 $ 9,109 $ 15,571 $ 15,222 $ 14,684 $ 64,385 (1) Obligations include significant agreements or purchase orders to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and where the significant terms are specified. Where a minimum purchase obligation is stipulated, as in the case of our supply agreement with Lotus Cars Limited (Lotus), the amounts included in the table reflect the minimum purchase amounts. Our minimum purchase obligations related to Lotus are based on the December 31, 2010 exchange rate for the British pound and reflect our most current supply terms. Purchase obligations that are cancelable without significant penalty, are not included in the table. In October 2010, we completed the purchase of our Fremont, California manufacturing facility from NUMMI. NUMMI has previously identified environmental conditions at the Fremont site which affect soil and groundwater, and is currently undertaking efforts to address these conditions. Although we have been advised by NUMMI that it has documented and managed the environmental issues, we cannot determine with certainty the potential costs to remediate any pre-existing contamination. Based on managements best estimate, we estimated the fair value of the environmental liabilities that we assumed to be $5.3 million, which is not reflected in the table above as the timing of any potential payments cannot be reasonably determined at this time. As NUMMI continues with its decommissioning activities and as we continue with our planned construction and operating activities, it is reasonably possible that our estimate of environmental liabilities may change materially. We have reached an agreement with NUMMI under which, over a ten year period, we will pay the first $15.0 million of any costs of any governmentally-required remediation activities for contamination that existed prior to the completion of the facility and land purchase for any known or unknown environmental conditions, and NUMMI has agreed to pay the next $15.0 million for such remediation activities. Our agreement provides, in part, that NUMMI will pay up to the first $15.0 million on our behalf if such expenses are incurred in the first four years of our agreement, subject to our reimbursement of such costs on the fourth anniversary date of the closing. On the ten-year anniversary of the closing or whenever $30.0 million has been spent on the remediation activities, whichever comes first, NUMMIs liability to us with respect to remediation activities ceases, and we are responsible for any and all environmental conditions at the Fremont site. At that point in time, we have agreed to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless NUMMI from all liability and we have released NUMMI for any known or unknown claims except for NUMMIs obligations for representations and warranties under the agreement. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we held reservation payments of $30.8 million and $26.0 million from potential customers, respectively, which are not reflected in the table above. As of December 31, 2010, we held reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $2.5 million and reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $28.3 million. As of December 31, 2009, we held reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $8.2 million and reservation 103 Table of Contents payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $17.9 million. In order to convert the reservation payments into revenue, we will need to sell vehicles to these customers. All reservation payments for the Model S are fully refundable until such time that a customer enters into a purchase agreement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.