ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview and Quarter Highlights We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network, and market and sell our vehicles directly to consumers via the phone and internet, in-person at our corporate events and through our network of Tesla stores. We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2003, opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, and introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. We are targeting our second vehicle, the Model S sedan, for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and plan to manufacture Model S in higher volumes than those for the Tesla Roadster. We anticipate that initial deliveries of Model S will begin in June 2012. We have also recently revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover, a vehicle based on the Model S platform. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we recognized total revenues of $30.2 million, a decrease of 39% from total revenues of $49.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. Automotive sales revenue of $19.2 million decreased 43% from the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily reflecting the completion of the Daimler AG (Daimler) Smart fortwo and A-Class EV production programs at the end of 2011 under which we supplied Daimler with battery packs and chargers. Sales of the Tesla Roadster decreased as we concluded sales of the Tesla Roadster in North America during the quarter, partially offset by strong demand in Europe and Asia, where we are selling our remaining Tesla Roadsters in 2012 until inventory is depleted. We concluded the production run of our current generation Tesla Roadster in January 2012. Development services revenue decreased to $10.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 from $15.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011, as we completed our final development services milestones and sample deliveries for the Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) RAV4 EV program. We also began supplying Toyota with production powertrain systems for the RAV4 EV during the quarter. Revenue related to these sales is recorded in automotive sales. 21 Table of Contents We continued to make progress on the Model S program. We have nearly completed all regulatory approvals and certifications required to begin delivery of Model S to our customers in the United States. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were $68.4 million, compared to $41.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The higher research and development expenses included costs related to beta prototype and release candidate builds and ongoing detailed testing of systems integration, performance and safety, as well as the entire cost of our manufacturing activities in preparation for the production of the vehicle at the Tesla Factory. Research and development costs also reflected design and engineering activities related to Model X. We have produced 50 beta and several release candidate prototype Model S cars in the Tesla Factory as of March 31, 2012. As a result of investments being made in the Tesla Factory and supplier tooling for Model S, capital expenditures increased to $68.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to $54.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The purchase of the facility and land for the Tesla Factory was completed in October 2010. In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. As a result of our continued activities to support the expansion of our business such as the launch of Model S, the operation of newly opened stores in 2011, and higher store-related and marketing activities including our Model X event, we incurred higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $30.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 when compared to expenses of $27.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. Our Model S, Model X and powertrain development activities, as well as our capital investments in manufacturing infrastructure, continued to be supported by draw-downs under our Department of Energy Loan Facility (DOE Loan Facility) and other sources of cash including cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services and sales of powertrain components, cash received from refundable reservation payments for our Model S and Model X, and cash received from our public offerings and private placements. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we received $84.3 million in draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility bringing our total long-term debt under the facility to $360.5 million. As we complete our remaining Model S and powertrain activities in 2012, we expect to continue making draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. As of March 31, 2012, we had $387.3 million in principal sources of liquidity from our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE accounts and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This primarily includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $218.6 million which includes investments in money market funds, short-term marketable securities of $25.0 million, cash of $34.5 million deposited in dedicated DOE accounts in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and $104.5 million available under the DOE Loan Facility. We expect that these sources of liquidity together with our current projections of cash flow from operating activities will provide us adequate liquidity until we reach profitability in 2013, based on our current plans. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Our principal focus has continued to be on the disciplined development of Model S so that we can commence deliveries in June 2012. We have also been focused on the continued sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components, development services activities with our strategic partners, advanced engineering work on the planned Model X and pursuing new electric powertrain opportunities with automobile manufacturers. 22 Table of Contents In January 2012, we concluded the production run of our current generation Tesla Roadster. Through March 31, 2012, we had delivered approximately 2,250 Roadsters to customers. We plan to sell our remaining Tesla Roadsters during 2012 primarily in Europe and Asia until our inventory is depleted. We completed our production deliveries to supply Daimler with battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs as of December 31, 2011. Although we have continued to deliver a small number of battery packs to Daimler to meet their service requirements, we expect powertrain component sales under these programs to Daimler to be limited. In July 2011, we entered into a supply and services agreement with Toyota for the production of an electric powertrain system, including a battery pack, charging system, inverter, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into the Toyota RAV4 EV. Pursuant to the agreement, Toyota will pay us approximately $100 million from 2012 through 2014 based on our delivery of these components for the Toyota RAV4 EV. Although we began shipping powertrain systems under this agreement during the three months ended March 31, 2012, powertrain component sales to Toyota is expected to be limited initially until Toyotas production level ramps up later in 2012. As we have a limited number of Tesla Roadsters left for sale and as we expect powertrain component sales to decline until we achieve significant deliveries for the Toyota RAV4 EV program, we anticipate our automotive sales will decline, potentially significantly, prior to deliveries of our Model S to customers. We currently expect to commence customer deliveries in June 2012; however, scale deliveries of our Model S could be delayed for a number of reasons and any such delays may be significant and would extend the period in which we would generate limited revenues from sales of our electric vehicles and electric powertrain systems. In February 2012, we received a purchase order from Daimler to begin work on the development on a full electric powertrain program for a vehicle in the Mercedes line and recently, we executed an agreement with Daimler which covers the significant terms for the development program. Due to timing differences that may arise between the recognition of future milestones under this program and the underlying costs of development services, the gross margin from our development services activities may vary from period to period as we have seen under our previous development services agreements including that for the Toyota RAV4 EV program. We began building release candidate Model S vehicles in the first quarter of 2012 and we continue to work closely with suppliers to design, develop and test components that will meet our anticipated production design specifications and schedule. Ensuring that our design, engineering, operations and manufacturing engineering teams, and our suppliers, execute on all significant activities will be critical to a timely launch of customer deliveries of our Model S in June 2012. Our continuing negotiations with suppliers and the adequate maturation of our manufacturing capabilities will influence our ability to achieve the cost per unit that we are currently projecting. Our plan to commence deliveries of Model S in June 2012 is also dependent upon our finalizing the related design, engineering, component procurement, testing, certification, and manufacturing plans in a timely manner and upon our ability to execute these plans within the current timeline. In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. We currently plan to start production of Model X in the fourth quarter of 2013 with significant deliveries in 2014. Our ability to develop and introduce the Model X in this timeframe is based on our expectations of leveraging the Model S platform. If there is a lower level of commonality between Model S and Model X than anticipated, our future development and tooling costs may exceed expectations. 23 Table of Contents Our operating expenses in 2012 will continue to be significant as we continue to make significant investments in research and development and our infrastructure to launch Model S, incur costs for the development of Model X and systematically and strategically expand our sales and service infrastructure globally to support Model S. As pre-production expenses, development and prototyping costs cannot be capitalized, our operating expenses may increase further if we are required to make late stage changes to Model S design or the assembly lines and processes to manufacture the vehicle at the Tesla Factory, or to perform additional testing in order to meet regulatory compliance prior to producing Model S in volume. Once we start producing Model S in volume, our Model S production costs, including direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead and amortized tooling, and logistics, will begin to be reflected in cost of automotive sales. Accurately forecasting our manufacturing costs may be difficult until we reach a certain level of volume production. As a result of higher operating expenses in 2012, we expect to continue generating a net loss until we reach planned volume sales of Model S in 2013. Capital spending for the Model S program will continue in 2012 as we complete our commissioning activities of the Tesla Factory and as we make final payments for tooling and manufacturing equipment required for production. Depreciation of our capital expenditures related to the manufacturing of Model S will begin when we start producing Model S in volume. We anticipate that most of the capital expenditures on Model S will continue to be funded by the DOE Loan Facility until the launch of Model S. We also anticipate our aggregate capital expenditures for 2012 to be comparable to that in 2011, primarily focused on vehicle development and manufacturing activities for Model S and Model X. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors for a further discussion of risks associated with our business, including additional risks related to the Model S and Model X. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, please refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1, Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Revenues Automotive sales $ 19,245 $ 33,628 Development services 10,922 15,402 Total revenues 30,167 49,030 Cost of revenues Automotive sales 13,932 26,961 Development services 6,025 4,041 Total cost of revenues 19,957 31,002 Gross profit 10,210 18,028 Operating expenses Research and development 68,391 41,162 Selling, general and administrative 30,582 24,212 Total operating expenses 98,973 65,374 Loss from operations (88,763 ) (47,346 ) Interest income 90 40 Interest expense (65 ) Other expense, net (1,076 ) (1,485 ) Loss before income taxes (89,814 ) (48,791 ) Provision for income taxes 59 150 Net loss $ (89,873 ) $ (48,941 ) Revenues Automotive Sales Automotive sales, which include vehicle, options and related sales, and powertrain component and related sales, consisted of the following for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Vehicle, options and related sales $ 17,888 $ 20,467 Powertrain component and related sales 1,357 13,161 Total automotive sales $ 19,245 $ 33,628 Automotive sales during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $19.3 million, a decrease from $33.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. Vehicle, options and related sales represent sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle and greenhouse gas emission credits to other automotive manufacturers. Powertrain component and related sales represent the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components and systems, such as battery packs and drive units, to other manufacturers. Vehicle, options and related sales during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $17.9 million, a decrease from $20.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease in vehicle, options and related sales was primarily attributable to the conclusion of our Tesla Roadster sales in North America, partially offset by an increase in the number of Tesla Roadsters that we sold in Europe and Asia. Through March 31, 2012, we had delivered approximately 2,250 Roadsters to customers. We plan to sell our remaining Tesla Roadsters during 2012 in Europe and Asia until our inventory is depleted. Powertrain component and related sales for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $1.4 million, a decrease from $13.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease in powertrain component and related sales was primarily due to fewer shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler. Production for both the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs was completed as of December 31, 2011; however, we delivered a few additional battery packs during the first quarter to meet Daimlers service requirements. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we also began supplying powertrain systems to Toyota under the RAV4 EV supply and services agreement. 25 Table of Contents Development Services Development services represent arrangements where we develop electric vehicle powertrain components and systems for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs and chargers to meet customers specifications. Development services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $11.0 million, a decrease from $15.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. In July 2010, we entered into an agreement with Toyota to initiate development of an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. Under this Phase 0 development agreement, prototypes would be made by us by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we delivered prototypes to Toyota and recognized $1.2 million in development services revenue. We completed all prototype vehicles under the Phase 0 agreement by June 30, 2011 and as such, we did not recognize further development services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2012. In October 2010, we also entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we completed various milestones and delivered samples under the Phase 1 agreement, and including the amortization of our upfront payment, we recognized $14.0 million in development services revenue. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we completed our remaining milestones and delivered samples under the Phase 1 agreement and recognized $10.7 million in development services revenue. We intend to grow our development services revenue over time by establishing additional commercial arrangements with other automobile manufacturers and by looking for new development opportunities with existing strategic partners. Additionally, we expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of our delivery of milestones and samples, as well as the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues includes cost of automotive sales and costs related to our development services. Cost of revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $20.0 million, a decrease from $31.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease in cost of automotive sales for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was driven primarily by a decrease in both the number of vehicles sold and battery packs and chargers delivered to Daimler. Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. The decrease in cost of development services was driven primarily by our activities for the Toyota RAV4 EV program which we substantially completed during the three months ended March 31, 2012. 26 Table of Contents Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $10.2 million, a decrease from $18.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011, was driven primarily by lower sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components, as well as lower gross profit from our development services activities. We expect our development services gross profit and gross margin may fluctuate in future periods as the timing of revenue recognition may not coincide with the period in which the corresponding cost of revenues is recognized. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. Research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2012 were $68.4 million, an increase from $41.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2012 consisted primarily of a $14.8 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount, an $8.5 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S beta and release candidate builds, operating expenses related to the Tesla Factory and powertrain development activities, a $3.5 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, and a $3.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants. The increase was partially offset by a $3.7 million decrease in costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities. We have significantly increased our research and development efforts for the Model S in recent quarters, which has resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will rise until we start producing Model S in volume. Specifically, research and development spending should decline after we start producing Model S volume and manufacturing expenses will be reflected in cost of goods sold rather than in research and development. After we start producing Model S in volume, we expect to incur additional research and development expenses related to the development of future vehicles, such as Model X. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2012 were $30.6 million, an increase from $24.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2012 consisted primarily of a $2.8 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $1.3 million increase in stock-based compensation 27 Table of Contents expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants, a $1.0 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, a $0.7 million increase in professional and outside services costs, and a $0.5 million increase in costs principally related to our planned Tesla store openings. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in future periods as we continue to grow and expand our operations, increase our sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence and prepare for the planned Model S commercial launch in June 2012, and as we support the requirements of being a public company. We plan to open additional stores and service centers during 2012, mostly in the United States, and some of these stores will replace existing stores, which we may continue to use as service locations. Interest Expense Our interest expense is primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility which we began accessing in 2010. Although interest expense will increase as we continue to draw down on the DOE Loan Facility to fund our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to capitalize this interest to construction in progress until the start of Model S production. During the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, we capitalized $1.6 million and $0.7 million of interest expense to construction in progress, respectively. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our DOE common stock warrant liability and gains and losses on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. The DOE warrant is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other expense, net, until its expiration or vesting. Other expense, net, during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $1.1 million, a decrease in expense compared to other expense, net of $1.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The increase in expense for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was primarily due to an unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $0.1 million compared to $0.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was due primarily to the decrease in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception and through March 31, 2012, we had accumulated net losses of $760.0 million and have used $495.0 million of cash in operations. As of March 31, 2012, we had $387.3 million in principal sources of liquidity from our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE accounts and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This primarily includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $218.6 million which included investments in money market funds, our short-term marketable securities in the amount of $25.0 million, cash of $34.5 million deposited in dedicated DOE accounts in accordance with the requirements of our 28 Table of Contents DOE Loan Facility, and approximately $104.5 million available under the DOE Loan Facility, which is primarily intended to cover spending related to the development of Model S and our powertrain activities. Other sources of cash also include cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services, sales of powertrain components and refundable reservation payments for our Model S and Model X. We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE accounts and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility, together with our anticipated cash from operating activities will provide us with adequate liquidity until we reach profitability in 2013, based on our current plans. This capital will fund our ongoing operations, continue research and development projects, establish sales and service centers, improve infrastructure such as expanded battery pack assembly facilities, and to make the investments in tooling and manufacturing capital required to introduce Model S and to continue development of Model X. The development of future vehicles, investments in new technologies, increased in-sourcing of manufacturing capabilities, investments to expand our powertrain activities or further expand our sales and service network, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We may also choose to opportunistically raise additional funds if market conditions are favorable. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. DOE Loan Facility On January 20, 2010, we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB), and the DOE, pursuant to the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Incentive Program (such loan facility, including amendments thereto, the DOE Loan Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, the FFB has made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $465.0 million. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million will be made available under the first term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the powertrain engineering and the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan. Under the DOE Loan Facility, we are responsible for the remaining 20% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the projects as well as any cost overruns for each project. Our DOE Loan Facility draw-downs have been as follows (in thousands): Loan Facility Available for Future Draw-downs Interest rates Beginning Balance, January 20, 2010 $ 465,048 Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2010 (29,920 ) 2.9% - 3.4% Draw-downs received during the three months ended June 30, 2010 (15,499 ) 2.5% - 3.4% Draw-downs received during the three months ended September 30, 2010 (11,138 ) 1.7% - 2.6% Draw-downs received during the three months ended December 31, 2010 (15,271 ) 1.7% - 2.8% Remaining Balance, December 31, 2010 393,220 Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2011 (30,656 ) 2.1% - 3.0% Draw-downs received during the three months ended June 30, 2011 (31,693 ) 1.8% - 2.7% Draw-downs received during the three months ended September 30, 2011 (90,822 ) 1.0% - 1.4% Draw-downs received during the three months ended December 31, 2011 (51,252 ) 1.0% - 1.5% Remaining Balance, December 31, 2011 188,797 Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2012 (84,267 ) 0.9% - 1.6% Remaining Balance, March 31, 2012 $ 104,530 29 Table of Contents In May 2012, we received an additional loan under the DOE Loan Facility of $8.1 million at an interest rate of 1.3%. We have agreed that, in connection with the sale of our stock in any follow-on equity offering, at least 50% of the net offering proceeds will be received by us. Offering proceeds may not be used to pay bonuses or other compensation to officers, directors, employees or consultants in excess of the amounts contemplated by our business plan approved by the DOE. Upon completion of our IPO in 2010, we set aside $100 million to fund a separate dedicated account under our DOE Loan Facility. This dedicated account is used by us to fund any cost overruns for our powertrain and Tesla Factory projects and is used as a mechanism to defer advances under the DOE Loan Facility. This will not affect our ability to draw down the full amount of the DOE loans, but will require us to use the dedicated account to fund certain project costs upfront, which costs may then be reimbursed by loans under the DOE Loan Facility once the dedicated account is depleted, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. We will be then required to deposit a portion of these reimbursements into the dedicated account, in an amount equal to up to 30% of the remaining project costs for the applicable project, and these amounts may similarly be used by us to fund project costs and cost overruns and will similarly be eligible for reimbursement by the draw-down of additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility once used in full, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. Depending on the timing and magnitude of our draw-downs and the funding requirements of the dedicated account, the balance of the dedicated account will fluctuate throughout the period in which we plan to make draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. Upon completion of our final advance under the DOE Loan Facility, the balance in the dedicated account will be fully transferred out of the dedicated account. As of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, $19.5 million and $23.5 million were held in this dedicated account, respectively. Under the DOE Loan Facility, we have agreed to fund a dedicated debt service reserve account. In February 2012, we funded $15.0 million into this account, an amount equal to all principal and interest that will come due on December 15, 2012, and on or before October 15, 2012, we have agreed to fund an amount equal to all principal and interest that will come due on March 15, 2013 and June 15, 2013. Once we have deposited such amounts, we will not be required to further fund such debt service reserve account. For more information on the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 6 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under Item 1. Financial Statements. Leasing Activities In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. When compared to our sales of vehicles, our leasing activities will spread the cash inflows that we would otherwise receive upon the sale of a vehicle, over the lease term and final disposition of the leased vehicle. As such, our cash and working capital requirements will be directly impacted and if leasing volume increases significantly, the impact may be material. However, after taking into consideration our current and planned sources of operating cash, our ability to monitor and prospectively adjust our leasing activity, as well as our intent to collect nonrefundable deposits for leased vehicles that are manufactured to specification, we do not believe that our leasing operations materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments and obligations as they become due. As we will also be exposed to credit risk related to the timely collection of lease payments from our customers, we intend to utilize our credit approval and ongoing review processes in order to minimize any credit losses that could occur and which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We require deposits from customers electing a lease option for vehicles built to a customers specifications on the same timeframe and under the same circumstances as from customers purchasing our vehicles outright. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, approximately 10% of the vehicles delivered during the period were under operating leases. No new leasing arrangements were entered into during the three 30 Table of Contents months ended March 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we had deferred revenues of $0.7 million and $0.8 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases, respectively. Through March 31, 2012, our leasing activity has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. Reservations Payments Reservation payments consist of payments that allow potential customers to hold a reservation for the future purchase of a Tesla Roadster, Model S or Model X. These amounts are recorded as current liabilities until the vehicle is delivered. For our Tesla Roadsters, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial nonrefundable deposit which varies based on the country of purchase. For Model S and Model X, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. For customers who have placed a refundable reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. We require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. Amounts received by us as reservation payments are generally not restricted as to their use by us. Upon delivery of the vehicle, the related reservation payments are applied against the customers total purchase price for the vehicle and recognized in automotive sales as part of the respective vehicle sale. Summary of Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (50,087 ) $ (43,297 ) Net cash used in (provided by) investing activities (79,440 ) 10,111 Net cash provided by financing activities 92,831 34,283 Cash Flows from Operating Activities We continue to experience negative cash flows from operations as we expand our business and build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $50.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $89.9 million, which included non-cash charges of $10.7 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $4.2 million related to depreciation and amortization and $2.6 million related to inventory write-downs and adverse purchase commitments. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $99 million of operating expenses, $20.0 million of cost of revenues and a $5.6 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles, partially offset by an $6.9 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and a $2.5 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Inventory increased to meet our planned production requirements for the Model S and powertrain component sales while the net increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business and the timing of vendor payments. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets was primarily driven by various refunds received during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Significant operating cash inflows for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were comprised primarily of automotive sales of 31 Table of Contents $19.2 million, $10.9 million of development services revenue and a $21.6 million net increase in reservation payments, partially offset by a $4.1 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to receivables from Toyota for the achievement of our final milestones under the Toyota RAV4 EV Phase 1 contract services agreement. Net cash used in operating activities was $43.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $48.9 million, which included non-cash charges of $5.9 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $3.5 million related to depreciation and amortization and $1.4 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liabilities. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $65.4 million of operating expenses, $31.0 million of cost of revenues, a $7.0 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $7.7 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales while the net increase in accounts payable was due to both the growth of our business and the timing of vendor payments. Operating lease vehicles continued to increase with the introduction of our leasing program in 2010. Significant operating cash inflows for the three months ended March 31, 2011 were derived primarily from sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components as well as from development services activity. Significant operating cash inflows were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $33.6 million, $15.4 million of development services revenue and an $8.7 million increase in reservation payments, partially offset by a $13.6 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to receivables from Toyota for the achievement of two milestones under the Toyota RAV4 Phase 1 contract services agreement. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. Net cash used in investing activities was $79.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily related to $67.9 million in purchases of capital equipment and a net transfer of $11.0 million into our dedicated DOE accounts in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. The increase in capital purchases was primarily due to significant continuing development and construction activities at the Tesla Factory as well as purchases of manufacturing equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities was $10.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily related to $30.6 million that was transferred out of our dedicated DOE account in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by capital purchases of $20.5 million. The increase in capital purchases was primarily due to significant development and construction activities at our Models S manufacturing facility as well as purchases of manufacturing equipment and tooling for the production of Model S. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $92.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012 and was comprised primarily of $84.3 million received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility and $9.0 million received from the exercise of common stock options by employees and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. 32 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities was $34.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and was comprised primarily of $30.7 million received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility and $3.7 million received from the exercise of common stock options and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.