ITEM 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Overview We design, make and sell semiconductors to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. Our business model is carefully constructed around several advantages that are unique to TI: Industrys broadest portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers design engineers need at least one, and most times multiple, chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can solve more of these needs than can our competitors, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to generate more revenue per system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio. A strong foundation of manufacturing technology and low-cost production. We invest in manufacturing technologies that differentiate the features of our semiconductors, and we do most of our own production in-house, as opposed to outsourcing it. This ability to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers. We produce billions of semiconductors each year on a mixture of 150-, 200- and 300-millimeter wafers, and we are able to keep costs low for manufacturing facilities and equipment because our analog and much of our embedded processing semiconductors can be made using mature assets that we acquire ahead of demand when their prices are most attractive. In 2014, we produced approximately 25 percent of our Analog semiconductors on 300-millimeter wafers, the industrys largest wafers, which have a 40 percent cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter wafers. The majority of our future Analog growth will be produced on 300-millimeter wafers, which will be meaningful to the growth of our margins and cash flow over the long term. Industrys largest market channels. Our global sales force is larger than those of our competitors, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts tens of millions of visits to our web site each year where customers often begin their initial product searches and design-in journey. These capabilities combine to provide us unique access to more than 100,000 customers. Diversity and longevity in our products and in the markets we serve. Together, the advantages above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders. Because of the breadth of our portfolio we are not dependent on any single product, and because of the breadth of our markets we are not dependent on any single application or customer. Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments. These advantages have resulted in consistent share gains and free cash flow growth, and they put us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. In the following discussion of our results of operations: All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except per-share amounts. When we discuss our results: o Unless otherwise noted, changes in our revenue are attributable to changes in customer demand, which are evidenced by fluctuations in shipment volumes. o New products tend not to have a significant impact on our revenue in any given period because we sell such a large number of products. 14 o From time to time, our revenue and gross profit are affected by changes in demand for higher-priced or lower-priced products, which we refer to as changes in the mix of products shipped. o Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. When factory loadings decrease, our fixed costs are spread over reduced output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins decrease. Conversely, as factory loadings increase, our fixed costs are spread over increased output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins increase. Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand. Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments. Performance summary Our first-quarter revenue was $3.15 billion, net income was $656 million and earnings per share (EPS) were $0.61. Revenue growth of 6 percent was the sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth and within the range of our expectations. Automotive and industrial markets were strong, as we expected they would be. Revenue, however, was in the bottom half of our range for two reasons. First was weak demand in the last month of the quarter in our personal electronics market, particularly PCs, and in our communications equipment market, particularly wireless infrastructure equipment. Second was a steep decline in the currency exchange rate for the euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Even so, our core businesses of Analog and Embedded Processing delivered their seventh and tenth consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth, respectively. Combined, Analog and Embedded Processing comprised 86 percent of first-quarter revenue. Gross margin of 57.7 percent was up almost 4 percentage points from a year ago, reflecting the diversity and longevity of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy. Our cash flow from operations once again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was up 17 percent from a year ago to $3.6 billion, or 27 percent of revenue. This represents an increase of 2 percentage points from a year ago and is consistent with our targeted range of 20-30 percent of revenue. We returned $4.1 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends. Our strategy to return to shareholders 100 percent of free cash flow plus proceeds from exercises of equity compensation minus net debt retirement reflects our confidence in the long-term sustainability of our business model. Our balance sheet remains strong, with $3.3 billion of cash and short-term investments at the end of the quarter, 82 percent of which was owned by the companys U.S. entities. Inventory ended the quarter at 124 days. We expect continuing weakness in our communications equipment and personal electronics markets, particularly for wireless infrastructure equipment and PCs, in the second quarter of 2015. We also do not expect a near-term rebound in foreign currency exchange rates. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. For a reconciliation to GAAP and an explanation of the reason for providing this non-GAAP measure, see the Non-GAAP financial information section after the Liquidity and capital resources section. Results of operations first-quarter 2015 compared with first-quarter 2014 Revenue increased $167 million, or 6 percent, due to increased revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing. 15 Gross profit was $1.82 billion, or 57.7 percent of revenue, an increase of $209 million primarily due to increased revenue, and to a lesser extent, increased factory loadings. Operating expenses were $338 million for R&D and $439 million for SG&A. R&D expense decreased $28 million and SG&A expense decreased $40 million. The decreases, 8 percent in each comparison, were due to cost savings from previously announced restructuring actions and other efforts across the company to align costs with growth opportunities. Acquisition charges associated with our 2011 acquisition of National were unchanged at $83 million. These charges were from the ongoing amortization of intangible assets. See Note 3 to the financial statements for more information. Operating profit was $958 million, or 30.4 percent of revenue, compared with $690 million, or 23.1 percent of revenue. Quarterly income taxes are calculated using the estimated annual effective tax rate. At the end of the first quarter, our estimated annual effective tax rate for 2015 was about 30 percent. The tax rate is based on current tax law and does not include the effect of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2014. Our annual effective tax rate benefits from lower tax rates (compared to the U.S. statutory rate) applicable to our operations in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate and from U.S. tax benefits. These lower non-U.S. tax rates are generally statutory in nature, without expiration and available to companies that operate in those taxing jurisdictions. Our tax provision was $284 million compared with $184 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in income before income taxes. First-quarter 2015 segment results Our segment results compared with the year-ago quarter are as follows: Analog (includes High Volume Analog & Logic (HVAL), Power Management (Power), High Performance Analog (HPA) and Silicon Valley Analog (SVA)) 1Q15 1Q14 Change Revenue $ 2,035 $ 1,837 11% Operating profit 721 498 45% Operating profit % of revenue 35.4 % 27.1 % Analog revenue increased primarily due to Power and HVAL. SVA and HPA also grew, but to a lesser extent. Operating profit increased primarily due to higher revenue and associated gross profit. Embedded Processing (includes Processor, Microcontrollers and Connectivity) 1Q15 1Q14 Change Revenue $ 672 $ 656 2% Operating profit 123 52 137% Operating profit % of revenue 18.3 % 7.9 % Embedded Processing revenue increased due to Microcontrollers and Connectivity, which grew by about the same amount. Processor revenue decreased due to a less favorable mix of products shipped. Operating profit increased primarily due to lower operating expenses. 16 Other (includes DLP products, custom ASIC products, calculators and royalties) 1Q15 1Q14 Change Revenue $ 443 $ 490 -10% Operating profit* 114 140 -19% Operating profit % of revenue 25.7 % 28.7 % *Includes Acquisition charges and Restructuring charges/other Other revenue decreased primarily due to custom ASIC products and, to a lesser extent, DLP products. Operating profit decreased primarily due to lower gross profit. Financial condition At the end of the first quarter of 2015, total cash (Cash and cash equivalents plus Short-term investments) was $3.30 billion, a decrease of $237 million from the end of 2014. Accounts receivable were $1.39 billion. This was an increase of $148 million compared with the end of 2014 primarily due to higher revenue at the end of the first quarter than at the end of 2014. Days sales outstanding were 40 at the end of the first quarter compared with 34 at the end of 2014. Inventory was $1.84 billion, an increase of $60 million from the end of 2014. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 124 compared with 117 at the end of 2014. The days increased due about equally to our planned build-ahead of long-lived products and revenue that came in the bottom half of our expected range. Liquidity and capital resources Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and a revolving credit facility. Cash flow from operating activities for the first quarter of 2015 was $609 million, an increase of $147 million from the year-ago quarter due to an increase in Net income. We have a variable-rate revolving credit facility with a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2020. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2015, our credit facility was undrawn and we had no commercial paper outstanding. For the first three months of 2015, investing activities provided $158 million in cash compared with using cash of $305 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $123 million compared with $77 million in the year-ago period, and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment. We received proceeds from sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $280 million. In comparison, in the year-ago period, we had purchases of short-term investments, net of sales, that used cash of $266 million. For the first three months of 2015, financing activities used net cash of $724 million compared with $219 million in the year-ago period. In 2014, we received proceeds of $498 million from the issuance of fixed-rate long-term debt (net of original issuance discount). We paid dividends of $356 million compared with $325 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate. We used $670 million to repurchase 12.0 million shares of our common stock, compared with $720 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 16.6 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $246 million compared with $283 million in the year-ago period. In April 2015, we repaid $250 million of maturing debt that we assumed in connection with the National acquisition. Additionally, on April 27, 2015, we agreed to issue $500 million principal amount of debt, which we expect to use for repayment of maturing debt. The debt offering is expected to close on May 6, 2015. 17 We had $1.24 billion of Cash and cash equivalents and $2.06 billion of Short-term investments as of March 31, 2015. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. Non-GAAP financial information Free cash flow and associated ratios This MD&A includes references to free cash flow and ratios based on that measure. These are financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow was calculated by subtracting Capital expenditures from the most directly comparable GAAP measure, Cash flows from operating activities (also referred to as cash flow from operations). We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to investors, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures. Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP-based measures is provided in the table below. For 12 Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Change Cash flow from operations (GAAP) $ 4,039 $ 3,486 16% Capital expenditures (431) (405) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 3,608 $ 3,081 17% Revenue $ 13,212 $ 12,302 Cash flow from operations as a percent of revenue (GAAP) 31 % 28 % Free cash flow as a percent of revenue (non-GAAP) 27 % 25 % Long-term contractual obligations Information regarding long-term debt obligations is described in the long-term contractual obligations table in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Changes in accounting standards See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards.