ITEM 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. All dollar amounts in the tables in this discussion are stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except per-share amounts. Overview We design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. We began operations in 1930. We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 35 countries. We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments. We were the worlds fourth largest semiconductor company in 2011 as measured by revenue, according to industry data from an external source. Additionally, we sell calculators and related products. On September 23, 2011, we completed the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation (National). The acquisition has brought to TI a portfolio of thousands of analog products, strong customer design tools and additional manufacturing capacity, and is consistent with our strategy to grow our Analog business. The results of Nationals operations from the acquisition date are included in our Analog segment under the name Silicon Valley Analog. Product information Semiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as chips) that combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit. Our products, more than 80,000 in number, are integrated circuits that are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. This broad portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment. In 2011, we sold over 20 billion units of our products. We sell custom and catalog semiconductor products. Custom products are designed for a specific customer for a specific application, are sold only to that customer and are typically sold directly to the customer. The life cycles of custom products are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months. Catalog products are designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are generally sold through both distribution and direct channels. They include both proprietary and commodity products. The life cycles of catalog products are generally longer than for custom products. Additional information regarding each segments products follows. Analog Analog semiconductors change real-world signals such as sound, temperature, pressure or images by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and consumption. Sales to our Analog segments more than 90,000 customers generated about 47 percent of our revenue in 2011. According to external sources, the worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $43 billion in 2011. Our Analog segments revenue in 2011 was about $6.5 billion, or about 15 percent of this fragmented market, the leading position. We believe that we are well positioned to increase our market share over time. Our Analog segment includes the following major product lines: High Volume Analog & Logic (HVAL), Power Management (Power), High Performance Analog (HPA) and Silicon Valley Analog (SVA). HVAL products: These include both high-volume analog products and logic and standard linear products. High-volume analog includes products for specific applications, including custom products. The life cycles of our high-volume analog products are generally shorter than most of our other Analog product lines. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. Logic and standard linear includes commodity products marketed to many different customers for many different applications. 16 Power products: These include both catalog and custom semiconductors that help customers manage power in any type of electronic system. We design and manufacture power management semiconductors for both portable devices (battery-powered devices, such as handheld consumer electronics, laptop computers and cordless power tools) and line-powered systems (products that require an external electrical source, such as computers, digital TVs, wireless basestations and high-voltage industrial equipment). HPA products: These include catalog analog semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data converters and interface semiconductors, that we market to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets, including the industrial, communications, computing and consumer electronics markets. HPA products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years. SVA products: These include catalog analog products, particularly in the areas of power management, data converters, interface and operational amplifiers, nearly all of which are complementary to our other Analog products. This portfolio of thousands of products is marketed to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets. Many SVA products have long life cycles, often more than 10 years. Embedded Processing Our Embedded Processing products include our DSPs and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Microcontrollers are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales of Embedded Processing products generated about 15 percent of our revenue in 2011. According to external sources, the worldwide market for embedded processors was about $18 billion in 2011. Our Embedded Processing segments revenue in 2011 was about $2.0 billion, or about 12 percent of this fragmented market. We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time. An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next. We make and sell catalog Embedded Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and automotive. Wireless Growth in the wireless market is being driven by the demand for smartphones, tablet computers and other emerging portable devices. Many of todays smartphones and tablets use an applications processor to run the devices software operating system and to enable the expanding functionality that has made smartphones and tablets the fastest growing wireless market segments. Many wireless devices also use other semiconductors to enable wireless connectivity using technologies such as Bluetooth , WiFi networks, GPS and Near Field Communications. We design, make and sell products to satisfy each of these requirements. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes. Our Wireless portfolio includes both catalog products and custom products. Sales of Wireless products generated about $2.5 billion, or about 18 percent of our revenue, in 2011, with a majority of those sales to a single customer. Our Wireless investments are concentrated on our OMAP TM applications processors and our connectivity products, areas we believe offer significant growth opportunities and which will enable us to take advantage of the increasing demand for more powerful and more functional wireless devices. We no longer invest in development of baseband products (products that allow a cell phone to connect to the cellular network), an area we believe offers far less promising growth prospects. Almost all of our baseband products are sold to a single customer. We expect substantially all of our baseband revenue, which was $1.1 billion in 2011, to cease by the end of 2012. Other Our Other segment includes revenue from our smaller semiconductor product lines and from sales of our handheld graphing and scientific calculators. It also includes royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies and revenue from transitional supply agreements that we may enter into in connection with acquisitions and divestitures. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images) and custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment generated about $2.5 billion, or about 20 percent of our revenue, in 2011. We also include in our Other segment certain acquisition-related charges that are not used in evaluating results and allocating resources to our segments. These charges 17 include certain fair-value adjustments, restructuring charges, transaction expenses, acquisition-related retention bonuses and the amortization of intangible assets. Our Other segment also includes certain corporate-level items, such as litigation and environmental costs, insurance proceeds, and assets and liabilities associated with our centralized operations, such as our worldwide manufacturing, facilities and procurement operations. Inventory Our inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand. Because of the longer product life cycles of catalog products and their inherently lower risk of obsolescence, we generally carry more of those products than custom products. Additionally, we sometimes maintain catalog-product inventory in unfinished wafer form, as well as higher finished goods inventory of low-volume products, allowing greater flexibility in periods of high demand. We also have consignment inventory programs in place for our largest customers and some distributors. Manufacturing Semiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then is usually retested. The entire process typically requires between 12 and 18 weeks and takes place in highly specialized facilities. We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. These include both high-volume wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity, potentially hurting our profit margins. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins. The cost and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors vary by product. Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products can be manufactured using older, less expensive equipment than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as our Wireless products. Advanced logic wafer manufacturing continually requires new and expensive processes and equipment. In contrast, the processes and equipment required for manufacturing our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products do not have this requirement. To supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital, our wafer manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries. We source about 25 percent of our wafers from external foundries, with the vast majority of this outsourcing being for advanced logic wafers. In 2011, external foundries provided about 75 percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet the vast majority of our analog production needs. In addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or when demand temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost advantage from maintaining internal assembly/test capacity. Our internal/external manufacturing strategy reduces the level of our required capital expenditures, and thereby reduces our subsequent levels of depreciation below what it would be if we sourced all manufacturing internally. Consequently, we experience less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. Product cycle The global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes. Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature. Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to higher-volume production over time. Consequently, new products tend not to have a significant revenue impact for one or more quarters after their introduction. In the results discussions below, changes in our shipments are caused by changing demand for our products 18 unless otherwise noted. Market cycle The semiconductor cycle is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. These are typically referred to as upturns and downturns in the semiconductor cycle. The semiconductor cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities. Seasonality Our revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. Our semiconductor sales generally are seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into cell phones and other consumer electronics devices, which have stronger sales later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the second and third quarters. Tax considerations We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions and are subject to several types of taxes including those that are based on income, capital, property and payroll, as well as sales and other transactional taxes. The timing of the final determination of our tax liabilities varies by jurisdiction and taxing authority. As a result, during any particular reporting period we might reflect in our financial statements one or more tax refunds or assessments, or changes to tax liabilities, involving one or more taxing authorities. First-Quarter 2012 results Our first-quarter revenue was $3.12 billion, net income was $265 million and earnings per share (EPS) were 22 cents. EPS includes 10 cents of charges associated with the companys acquisition of National Semiconductor and previously announced restructuring. As we expected, the semiconductor cycle bottomed in the first quarter, and early signs of growth began to emerge. Orders were up 13 percent, and backlog is growing again. Particularly encouraging is the breadth of increased orders across geographical regions and markets, including the industrial sector. Revenue in our Analog segment was about even with the prior quarter. We continue to make progress with Silicon Valley Analog, formerly National Semiconductor, as this product line gains traction with customers and holds a strong position in the important industrial market. Revenue in Embedded Processing was up 7 percent led by growth in the automotive and communications infrastructure markets. Revenue in our Wireless segment declined sharply as we entered the final phase of our exit from baseband products, which was less than 3 percent of total revenue in the quarter. We are expanding the reach of our applications processors and connectivity products into multiple markets beyond smartphones and tablets. Although it will take time to significantly diversify this revenue mix, we have begun to shift our investments accordingly. We are well-positioned with some key customer programs and are already experiencing strong diversity in our design-ins. We are poised for growth and share gains as markets rebound. Our product portfolio is strong, and our design position with customers is excellent. Our inventory is well-staged, and production in our factories is ramping. We expect 2012 to be a good year for growth. 19 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Income (Millions of dollars, except share and per-share amounts) For Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 Revenue $ 3,121 $ 3,392 $ 3,420 Cost of revenue (COR) 1,590 1,664 1,872 Gross profit 1,531 1,728 1,548 Research and development (R&D) 509 422 475 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) 462 396 443 Restructuring charges 10 112 Acquisition charges 153 2 153 Operating profit 397 908 365 Other income (expense) net (OI&E) (14 ) 10 5 Interest and debt expense 21 21 Income before income taxes 362 918 349 Provision for income taxes 97 252 51 Net income $ 265 $ 666 $ 298 Earnings per common share: Basic $ .23 $ .56 $ .26 Diluted $ .22 $ .55 $ .25 Average shares outstanding (millions): Basic 1,143 1,167 1,138 Diluted 1,165 1,194 1,155 Cash dividends declared per share of common stock $ .17 $ .13 $ .17 Percentage of revenue: Gross profit 49.0 % 50.9 % 45.3 % R&D 16.3 % 12.4 % 13.9 % SG&A 14.8 % 11.7 % 13.0 % Operating profit 12.7 % 26.8 % 10.7 % As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs), on which we pay dividend equivalents, is excluded from the calculation of EPS. The amount excluded is $4 million, $10 million and $5 million for the quarters ending March 31, 2012, March 31, 2011, and December 31, 2011, respectively. Events affecting comparability The consolidated financial statements include the results of Nationals operations since the acquisition date of September 23, 2011. Nationals results are reported in TIs Analog segment under the name Silicon Valley Analog (SVA). As a direct result of the National acquisition, we incurred various incremental costs that we recorded in Other, as explained more fully below. Results for the first quarter of 2012 also include restructuring charges associated with actions initiated in the fourth quarter of 2011 to close certain manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas, and Hiji, Japan. 20 Results for all periods presented include the impact of the March 11, 2011, earthquake and associated events in Japan. Revenue in the first quarter of 2012 includes insurance proceeds of about $65 million related to interruption of business operations as a result of the earthquake. See Note 3 to the financial statements for detailed information. Details of financial results Revenue for the first quarter of 2012 was $3.12 billion, a decrease of $271 million, or 8 percent, from the year-ago quarter and $299 million, or 9 percent, from the prior quarter, primarily due to lower revenue from our Wireless baseband products. Revenue from our core businesses of Analog, Embedded Processing and the remainder of our Wireless segment, was about 2 percent higher than the year-ago quarter and 5 percent lower than the prior quarter. Gross profit for the first quarter of 2012 was $1.53 billion, or 49.0 percent of revenue, a decrease of $197 million, or 11 percent, from the year-ago quarter primarily due to lower revenue. Compared with the prior quarter, lower gross profit reflected lower revenue that was partially offset by lower acquisition-related charges of $82 million (included in COR) and the benefit from $65 million of insurance proceeds, almost all of which benefitted gross profit. The underutilization expense in the first quarter of 2012 was essentially unchanged from about $110 million in the prior quarter. The underutilization expense should start to decline in the second quarter of 2012 as the effect of our higher production starts in the first quarter works its way through our manufacturing operations. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2012 were $509 million for R&D and $462 million for SG&A. R&D expense increased $87 million, or 21 percent, from the year-ago quarter primarily due to the inclusion of SVA. R&D expense increased $34 million, or 7 percent, from the prior quarter due about equally to higher compensation-related costs and higher product development costs. SG&A expense increased $66 million, or 17 percent, from the year-ago quarter primarily due to the inclusion of SVA. Compared with the prior quarter, SG&A expense increased $19 million, or 4 percent, due to higher compensation-related costs and, to a lesser extent, increased investments in sales and marketing activities. Restructuring charges for the first quarter of 2012 were $10 million and were associated with actions initiated in the fourth quarter of 2011 to close certain manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas, and Hiji, Japan. The restructuring charges are included in Other and for the first quarter of 2012 consist of accelerated depreciation of the facilities assets and other exit costs. The total charge for these closures is estimated to be about $215 million, of which a cumulative $122 million has been recognized to date and the remainder will be incurred over the next six quarters. See Note 4 to the financial statements for more detailed information. In the first quarter of 2012, we incurred $174 million of total acquisition-related charges associated with the National acquisition, compared with $256 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2011. These incremental costs are separately identifiable from the ongoing operating results of SVA that are included in the Analog segment, so we have classified them as a part of Other. This presentation is consistent with how management measures the performance of those segments. For the first quarter of 2012, $21 million of these charges are included in COR and are associated with the contract termination of a distributor. This compares with $103 million of charges in COR in the prior quarter that are associated with the fair value write-up of acquired inventory and property, plant and equipment. The remainder of the acquisition-related charges, about $153 million for each period, are included in the acquisition charges line on the face of the income statement. About $81 million of these costs in each period are from the ongoing amortization of intangible assets, with the remainder primarily due to severance and other benefits, retention bonuses and other costs. Total acquisition-related charges are expected to be about $100 million in the second quarter of 2012, and then continue to decline by about $5-10 million per quarter until they reach about $80 million, which is the ongoing amortization of intangibles amount that will continue for 8 to 10 years. For the first quarter of 2012, our operating profit was $397 million, or 12.7 percent of revenue, compared with $908 million, or 26.8 percent of revenue, for the year-ago quarter. The decrease in operating profit from the year-ago quarter was due about equally to lower gross profit, higher total acquisition-related charges, and higher operating expenses resulting from the inclusion of SVA. Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit increased $32 million, or 9 percent, primarily due to lower restructuring charges and lower total acquisition-related charges. OI&E for the first quarter of 2012 was an expense of $14 million compared with income in both the year-ago and prior periods. The decrease in both comparisons was primarily due to an expense associated with a divested business. Interest and debt expense was $21 million, unchanged from the prior quarter. This includes interest and amortization of debt expense associated with our issuance of new debt in May 2011 and the assumption of debt as a result of our acquisition of National in September 2011. See Note 9 to the financial statements for details regarding debt outstanding. 21 As of March 31, 2012, our estimated annual effective tax rate for 2012 is about 28 percent. Quarterly income taxes are calculated using the estimated annual effective tax rate. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional information. The tax rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2011. For the first quarter of 2012, our tax provision was $97 million compared with $252 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in the tax provision from the year-ago quarter was due to lower income before income taxes. The tax provision in the prior quarter was $51 million, which included a cumulative adjustment for a decrease in the annual effective tax rate. The increase in the tax provision from the prior quarter was primarily due to this cumulative adjustment. In the first quarter of 2012, our net income was $265 million compared with net income of $666 million for the year-ago quarter and $298 million for the prior quarter. EPS was $0.22 compared with $0.55 for the year-ago quarter and $0.25 for the prior quarter. Orders in the first quarter of 2012 were $3.24 billion, a decrease of 9 percent from the year-ago quarter and an increase of 13 percent from the prior quarter. Segment results Analog 1Q12 1Q11 1Q12 vs. 1Q11 4Q11 1Q12 vs. 4Q11 Revenue $ 1,686 $ 1,536 10 % $ 1,695 -1 % Operating profit 335 418 -20 % 414 -19 % Operating profit % of revenue 19.8 % 27.2 % 24.5 % Analog revenue increased 10 percent from the year-ago quarter due to the inclusion of SVA. Partially offsetting this increase was lower revenue from High-Performance Analog and High-Volume Analog & Logic products due to decreased shipments. Power Management revenue was lower due to a lower proportion of shipments of higher-priced products. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue was about even as an increase in SVA revenue from increased shipments was offset by lower revenue from High-Volume Analog & Logic products due to a lower proportion of shipments of higher-priced products. Revenue from Power Management and revenue from High-Performance Analog products were about even. Compared with the year-ago quarter, operating profit decreased due to higher operating expenses as a result of the inclusion of SVA. Operating profit decreased from the prior quarter due to lower gross profit resulting from higher manufacturing costs, as capacity at our recently purchased factory in Japan became available for analog production following expiration of a transitional supply agreement. Also contributing to the operating profit decline, but to a lesser extent, were higher operating expenses. Embedded Processing 1Q12 1Q11 1Q12 vs. 1Q11 4Q11 1Q12 vs. 4Q11 Revenue $ 473 $ 533 -11 % $ 442 7 % Operating profit 36 102 -65 % 12 200 % Operating profit % of revenue 7.7 % 19.0 % 2.7 % Embedded Processing revenue decreased 11 percent from the year-ago quarter due to decreased shipments of products sold into communications infrastructure applications and, to a lesser extent, a lower proportion of shipments of higher-priced catalog products. Partially offsetting these decreases were increased shipments of products sold into automotive applications. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue increased 7 percent due to increased shipments of products sold into automotive applications and, to a lesser extent, communications infrastructure applications. Revenue from catalog products was about even. Compared with the year-ago quarter, operating profit decreased primarily due to lower revenue and associated gross profit. Operating profit increased from the prior quarter due to higher revenue and associated gross profit. 22 Wireless 1Q12 1Q11 1Q12 vs. 1Q11 4Q11 1Q12 vs. 4Q11 Revenue $ 373 $ 658 -43 % $ 722 -48 % Operating profit (loss) (25 ) 141 n/a 112 n/a Operating profit (loss) % of revenue (6.6 ) % 21.5 % 15.5 % Wireless revenue decreased 43 percent from the year-ago quarter primarily due to decreased shipments of baseband products. Revenue from connectivity products also declined due to decreased shipments. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increased proportion of shipments of higher-priced OMAP applications processors. Baseband revenue for the first quarter of 2012 was $87 million, a decrease of $247 million, or 74 percent, from the year-ago quarter. The decrease in Wireless operating profit compared with the year-ago quarter was due to lower revenue and associated gross profit. Compared with the prior quarter, Wireless revenue declined 48 percent primarily due to decreased shipments of baseband products. Revenue from OMAP applications processors and connectivity products also declined due to decreased shipments. Baseband revenue declined $192 million, or 69 percent, from the prior quarter. Operating profit declined from the prior quarter due to lower revenue and associated gross profit. Other 1Q12 1Q11 1Q12 vs. 1Q11 4Q11 1Q12 vs. 4Q11 Revenue $ 589 $ 665 -11 % $ 561 5 % Operating profit (loss) 51 247 -79 % (173 ) n/a Operating profit (loss) % of revenue 8.6 % 37.2 % (30.8 ) % Restructuring charges* 10 112 Acquisition charges* 153 2 153 Other acquisition-related charges - in COR* 21 103 *Included in operating profit Other revenue decreased 11 percent from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to lower shipments of DLP products, and to a lesser extent, lower revenue from transitional supply agreements and lower royalties. Partially offsetting these decreases was about $65 million of business interruption insurance proceeds related to the 2011 Japan earthquake and increased shipments of custom ASIC products. Revenue from calculators was about even. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue increased 5 percent due to the insurance proceeds and increased shipments of custom ASIC products and calculators. Partially offsetting these increases were lower revenue from a transitional supply agreement that ended in the fourth quarter, lower revenue due to lower shipments of DLP products and lower royalties. Operating profit for the first quarter of 2012 decreased from the year-ago quarter due to higher total acquisition-related charges. Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit increased primarily due to lower restructuring charges and lower total acquisition-related charges. Operating profit in both comparisons was also favorably affected as a result of the insurance proceeds. See Note 3 to financial statements for more details. Financial Condition At the end of the first quarter of 2012, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $2.76 billion. This was $170 million lower than at the end of 2011. Accounts receivable were $1.48 billion at the end of the first quarter. This was a decrease of $67 million from the end of 2011 as a result of lower revenue. Inventory was $1.85 billion at the end of the first quarter. This was an increase of $65 million from the end of 2011. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 105 compared with 86 at the end of 2011. The inventory increase was due to 23 building inventory to support higher anticipated demand. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and revolving credit facilities. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2012 was $449 million, a decrease of $67 million from the year-ago period, due to lower net income. We had $1.19 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.57 billion of short-term investments as of March 31, 2012. During the quarter, we entered into a variable-rate revolving credit facility that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2017. In addition, this credit facility, which replaced our prior credit facilities, serves as support for the issuance of our commercial paper. As of March 31, 2012, we had $700 million of commercial paper outstanding. For the first three months of 2012, investing activities provided cash of $270 million compared with $63 million in the year-ago period. Proceeds from short-term investments, net of purchases, provided cash of $371 million compared with $239 million in the year-ago quarter. Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2012 totaled $103 million compared with $194 million in the year-ago quarter. These expenditures were primarily for assembly/test equipment, and, to a lesser extent, analog wafer manufacturing equipment. Net cash used in financing activities was $518 million for the first three months of 2012 compared with $555 million in the year-ago period. We used $300 million of cash in the first quarter of 2012 to repay commercial paper borrowings. We also used $300 million of cash in 2012 to repurchase 9.1 million shares of our common stock and paid dividends of $195 million. In the same period last year we used $771 million of cash to repurchase 21.9 million shares of common stock and paid $153 million in dividends. Employee exercises of TI stock options provided cash proceeds of $259 million compared with $350 million for the year-ago quarter. We believe we have the necessary financial resources to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. In 2012, we expect approximately: an annual effective tax rate of 28 percent; R&D expense of $2.0 billion; capital expenditures of $0.7 billion; and depreciation of $1.0 billion. The tax rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2011. Long-term contractual obligations Information concerning our long-term contractual obligations is contained on page 49 of Exhibit 13 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and is incorporated by reference to such exhibit. See Note 9 to the financial statements for detailed information our long-term debt.