ITEM 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear elsewhere in this document. All dollar amounts in the tables in this discussion are stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except per-share amounts. All amounts in this discussion reference continuing operations unless otherwise noted. Overview We design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. We began operations in 1930. We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments. We were the worlds fourth largest semiconductor company in 2010 as measured by revenue, according to an external source. Additionally, we sell calculators and related products. On April 4, 2011, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to acquire National Semiconductor Corporation (National). Under the terms of the agreement, National stockholders will receive $25 in cash for each share of National common stock they hold at the time of closing. TI expects to fund the transaction with a combination of existing cash balances and new debt issuance. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including review by U.S. and international regulators and approval by Nationals shareholders. TI expects the transaction to close sometime in 2011. The National acquisition will bring to TI a portfolio of 12,000 analog products and strong customer design tools, and is consistent with our strategy to grow our Analog business. Upon the close of the transaction, National will become part of TIs Analog segment. Product information Semiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as chips) that combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit. Our semiconductors are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. Our portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment. We sell custom and standard semiconductor products. Custom products are designed for a specific customer for a specific application, are sold only to that customer and are typically sold directly to the customer. The life cycles of custom products are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months. Standard products are designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are generally sold through both distribution and direct channels. They include both proprietary and commodity products. The life cycles of standard products are generally longer than for custom products. Additional information regarding each segments products follows. Analog Analog semiconductors change real-world signals such as sound, temperature, pressure or images by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and consumption. Sales to our Analog segments more than 80,000 customers generated 43 percent of our revenue in 2010. According to external sources, the worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $42 billion in 2010. Our Analog segments revenue in 2010 was about $6 billion, or about 14 percent of this market, the leading position. We believe that we are well positioned to increase our market share over time. Our Analog product lines are: high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management. High-volume analog & logic products: High-volume analog includes products for specific applications, including custom products. The life cycles of our high-volume analog products are generally shorter than those of our high-performance analog products. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. Logic and standard linear includes commodity products marketed to many different customers for many different applications. 15 High-performance analog products: These include standard analog semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data converters and interface semiconductors (our portfolio includes nearly 16,000 products), that we market to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets, including the industrial, communications, computing and consumer electronics markets. High-performance analog products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years. Power management products: These include both standard and custom semiconductors that help customers manage power in any type of electronic system. We design and manufacture power management semiconductors for both portable devices (battery-powered devices, such as handheld consumer electronics, laptop computers and cordless power tools) and line-powered systems (products that require an external electrical source, such as computers, digital TVs, wireless base stations and high-voltage industrial equipment). Embedded Processing Our Embedded Processing products include our DSPs and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Microcontrollers are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales of Embedded Processing products generated 15 percent of our revenue in 2010. According to external sources, the worldwide market for embedded processors was about $18 billion in 2010. Our Embedded Processing segments revenue in 2010 was about $2 billion, or about 11 percent of this fragmented market. We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time. An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and automotive. Wireless Growth in the wireless handset market is being driven by the demand for smartphones, tablet computers and other emerging portable devices. Many of todays smartphones and tablets use an applications processor to run the devices software operating system and to enable the expanding functionality that has made smartphones the fastest growing wireless segment. Smartphones and tablets also use other semiconductors to enable connectivity through means other than the cellular network ( such as Bluetooth devices, WiFi networks , GPS location services , and Near Field Communication (NFC)). We design, make and sell products to satisfy each of these requirements. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes, and our Wireless portfolio includes both standard products and custom products. Sales of Wireless products generated about $3 billion, or 21 percent of our revenue , in 2010, with a significant portion of those sales to a single customer. Our Wireless investments are concentrated on our connectivity products and OMAP applications processors, areas we believe offer significant growth opportunities and which will enable us to take advantage of the increasing demand for more powerful and more functional mobile devices. We no longer invest in development of baseband products (products that allow a cell phone to connect to the cellular network), an area we believe offers far less promising growth prospects. Almost all of our baseband products are sold to a single customer. We expect substantially all of our baseband revenue, which was $1.7 billion in 2010, to cease by the end of 2012. Other Our Other segment includes revenue from our smaller semiconductor product lines and from sales of our handheld graphing and scientific calculators. It also includes royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies and revenue from transitional supply agreements entered into in connection with acquisitions and divestitures. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images) and custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment generated about $3 billion, or 21 percent of our revenue, in 2010. 16 Inventory Our inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand. Because of the longer product life cycles of standard products and their inherently lower risk of obsolescence, we generally carry more of those products than custom products. Additionally, we sometimes maintain standard-product inventory in unfinished wafer form, as well as higher finished goods inventory of low-volume products, allowing greater flexibility in periods of high demand. We also have consignment inventory programs in place for our largest customers and some distributors. Manufacturing Semiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then is usually retested. The entire process typically requires between 12 and 18 weeks and takes place in highly specialized facilities. We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. These include both high-volume wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity, potentially hurting our profit margins. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins. The cost and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors vary by product. Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products can be manufactured using older, less expensive equipment than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as our Wireless products. Advanced logic wafer manufacturing continually requires new and expensive processes and equipment. In contrast, the processes and equipment required for manufacturing our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products do not have this requirement. To supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital, our wafer manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries. We source about 25 percent of our wafers from external foundries, with the vast majority of this outsourcing being for advanced logic wafers. In 2010, external foundries provided 60 percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet the vast majority of our analog production needs. In addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or when demand temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost advantage from maintaining internal assembly/test capacity. Our internal/external manufacturing strategy reduces the level of our required capital expenditures, and thereby reduces our subsequent levels of depreciation below what it would be if we sourced all manufacturing internally. Consequently, we experience less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. Product cycle The global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes. Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature. Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to high-volume production over time. Consequently, new products tend not to have a significant revenue impact for one or more quarters after their introduction. In the results discussions below, changes in our shipments are caused by changing demand for our products unless otherwise noted. 17 Market cycle The semiconductor cycle is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities. Seasonality Our revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. Our semiconductor sales generally are seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into cell phones and other consumer electronics devices, which have stronger sales later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the second and third quarters. Royalty revenue is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing agreements. Tax considerations We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions and are subject to several types of taxes including those that are based on income, capital, property and payroll, as well as sales and other transactional taxes. The timing of the final determination of our tax liabilities varies by jurisdiction and taxing authority. As a result, during any particular reporting period we might reflect in our financial statements one or more tax refunds or assessments, or changes to tax liabilities, involving one or more taxing authorities. First-Quarter 2011 results Our first-quarter revenue was $3.39 billion, net income was $666 million and earnings per share (EPS) were 55 cents. 2011 started strong, with customer demand in January and February tracking our expectations for a first quarter of above-seasonal growth. Later in the quarter, revenue from Wireless baseband chips was substantially below our expectations as a result of lower demand from a single customer. To a lesser extent, revenue was also affected by the March 11 earthquake in Japan and its aftermath, which disrupted demand and impaired operations at two of our factories there. The lower revenue combined with expenses resulting from the earthquake affected EPS. New orders, however, were strong through the quarter, indicative of the underlying strength in our markets. Recovery of our operations in Japan is progressing well. One of our factories has resumed full production, and the other has restarted initial processing of wafers and is on schedule for full loadings in the third quarter. Nonetheless, many of our Japanese customers remain in the early stages of reopening their own factories, and we and our customers face potential supply chain disruptions. We expect growth in the second quarter, though it will be pressured by the situation in Japan. We expect that our second-quarter EPS will be negatively impacted by a combination of lower output at our Japan factories, lower local Japan demand and potential supply chain disruptions, as well as by earthquake-related costs we expect to recognize in the second quarter. Provided consumer and enterprise demand remain strong, we expect a good second half of the year. 18 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Income (Millions of dollars, except share and per-share amounts) For Three Months Ended Mar. 31, 2011 Mar. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2010 Revenue $ 3,392 $ 3,205 $ 3,525 Cost of revenue 1,664 1,516 1,656 Gross profit 1,728 1,689 1,869 Research and development (R&D) 422 370 393 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) 396 359 389 Restructuring expense -- 10 1 Acquisition cost / divestiture (gain) 2 -- (144 ) Operating profit 908 950 1,230 Other income (expense) net 10 7 18 Income before income taxes 918 957 1,248 Provision for income taxes 252 299 306 Net income $ 666 $ 658 $ 942 Earnings per common share: Basic $ .56 $ .53 $ .79 Diluted $ .55 $ .52 $ .78 Average shares outstanding (millions): Basic 1,167 1,233 1,170 Diluted 1,194 1,246 1,189 Cash dividends declared per share of common stock $ .13 $ .12 $ .13 Percentage of revenue: Gross profit 50.9 % 52.7 % 53.0 % R&D 12.4 % 11.5 % 11.1 % SG&A 11.7 % 11.2 % 11.1 % Operating profit 26.8 % 29.7 % 34.9 % As required by accounting rule ASC 260, net income allocated to unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) on which we pay dividend equivalents is excluded from the calculation of EPS. The amount excluded from earnings per common share was $10 million, $8 million and $14 million for the quarters ending March 31, 2011, March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2010. Details of financial results Revenue for the first quarter of 2011 was $3.39 billion, an increase of $187 million, or 6 percent, from the year-ago quarter due to higher revenue from our core businesses consisting of Analog and Embedded Processing and the part of our Wireless segment that is focused on smartphones and tablet computers. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue decreased $133 million, or 4 percent, primarily due to lower revenue from the baseband portion of Wireless. During the first quarter of 2011, loss of revenue associated with the events in Japan was estimated to be about $20 million. Gross profit for the first quarter of 2011 was $1.73 billion, or 50.9 percent of revenue, an increase of $39 million, or 2 percent, from the year-ago quarter and a decrease of $141 million, or 8 percent, from the prior quarter. The change in gross profit in both comparisons was primarily due to the change in revenue. Included in results for the first quarter of 2011 are about $30 million of costs resulting from the events in Japan. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for more details. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2011 were $422 million for R&D and $396 million for SG&A. R&D expense increased $52 million, or 14 percent, from the year-ago quarter due to higher product development costs, particularly for our core businesses and, to a lesser extent, higher compensation-related costs. R&D expense increased $29 million, or 7 percent, from the prior quarter due to higher compensation-related costs and, to a lesser extent, higher product development costs. SG&A expense increased $37 million, or 10 percent, from the year-ago quarter, due to higher compensation-related costs and, to a lesser extent, increased investments in sales and marketing activities. Compared with the prior quarter, SG&A expense increased $7 million, or 2 percent, due to higher compensation-related costs. 19 In the first quarter of 2011, we incurred $2 million of acquisition-related transaction costs associated with the announced agreement to acquire National Semiconductor. In the prior quarter, we recorded a $144 million pretax gain from divestiture of a product line previously included in our Other segment. For the first quarter of 2011, our operating profit was $908 million, or 26.8 percent of revenue, compared with $950 million, or 29.7 percent of revenue, for the year-ago quarter. The decrease in operating profit from the year-ago quarter was due to higher operating expenses that more than offset higher gross profit. Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit decreased $322 million, or 26 percent, due to the combination of lower gross profit and last quarters gain on sale of a product line. As of March 31, 2011, our estimated annual effective tax rate for 2011 is about 28 percent. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Quarterly income taxes are calculated using the estimated annual effective tax rate. For the first quarter of 2011, our tax provision was $252 million compared with $299 million in the year-ago quarter and $306 million in the prior quarter. The decrease in the tax provision from the year-ago quarter was due, in decreasing order, to the effects of non-U.S. tax rates, the federal research tax credit and lower income before income taxes. The decrease in the tax provision from the prior quarter was due to lower income before income taxes, partially offset by the cumulative effect of the reinstatement of the federal research tax credit in the prior quarter. In the first quarter of 2011, our net income was $666 million compared with net income of $658 million for the year-ago quarter and $942 million for the prior quarter. EPS was $0.55, compared with $0.52 for the year-ago quarter and $0.78 for the prior quarter. Orders in the first quarter were $3.58 billion, a decrease of 2 percent from the year-ago quarter and an increase of 14 percent from the prior quarter. Segment results Analog 1Q11 1Q10 1Q11 vs. 1Q10 4Q10 1Q11 vs. 4Q10 Revenue $ 1,536 $ 1,367 12 % $ 1,518 1 % Operating profit 418 398 5 % 486 -14 % Operating profit % of revenue 27.2 % 29.1 % 32.0 % Analog revenue increased 12 percent from the year-ago quarter due to increased shipments of high-performance analog products and, to a lesser extent, increased shipments of power management and high-volume analog & logic products. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue was about even as an increase in shipments of power management products was partially offset by a decrease in shipments of high-performance analog products. Revenue from high-volume analog & logic products was about even. Compared with the year-ago quarter, operating profit increased due to higher revenue and associated gross profit partially offset by increased operating expenses. Operating profit decreased 14 percent from the prior quarter due to lower gross profit and higher operating expenses. Embedded Processing 1Q11 1Q10 1Q11 vs. 1Q10 4Q10 1Q11 vs. 4Q10 Revenue $ 533 $ 440 21 % $ 538 -1 % Operating profit 102 73 40 % 143 -29 % Operating profit % of revenue 19.0 % 16.7 % 26.5 % 20 Embedded Processing revenue increased 21 percent from the year-ago quarter due to increased shipments of catalog products and, to a lesser extent, shipments of products sold into communications infrastructure and automotive applications. Compared with the prior quarter, due to changes in the product mix, revenue was about even as increased shipments of products sold into automotive applications were offset by lower revenue from communications infrastructure and catalog products. Compared with the year-ago quarter, operating profit increased due to higher revenue and associated gross profit. Operating profit was 29 percent lower than the prior quarter due to lower gross profit and, to a lesser extent, higher operating expenses. Wireless 1Q11 1Q10 1Q11 vs. 1Q10 4Q10 1Q11 vs. 4Q10 Revenue $ 658 $ 717 -8 % $ 767 -14 % Operating profit 141 158 -11 % 180 -22 % Operating profit % of revenue 21.5 % 22.0 % 23.5 % Wireless revenue decreased 8 percent from the year-ago quarter due to decreased shipments of baseband products to a single customer. Revenue from connectivity products increased due to increased product shipments. Revenue from applications processors was about even. Baseband revenue for the first quarter of 2011 was $334 million, a decrease of $90 million, or 21 percent, from the year-ago quarter. The decrease in Wireless operating profit compared with the year-ago quarter was due to higher operating expenses and, to a lesser extent, lower revenue and associated gross profit. Compared with the prior quarter, Wireless revenue declined 14 percent due to decreased shipments of baseband products to a single customer. Baseband revenue declined $101 million, or 23 percent, from the prior quarter. Revenue from applications processors declined due to a decrease in product shipments. Revenue from connectivity products increased as a decline in product shipments was offset by the impact of a higher proportion of shipments of higher-priced products. Operating profit declined 22 percent from the prior quarter due to lower revenue and associated gross profit, partially offset by decreased operating expenses. Other 1Q11 1Q10 1Q11 vs. 1Q10 4Q10 1Q11 vs. 4Q10 Revenue $ 665 $ 681 -2 % $ 702 -5 % Operating profit 247 321 -23 % 421 -41 % Operating profit % of revenue 37.2 % 47.2 % 60.0 % Other revenue decreased 2 percent from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to lower royalties, which were mostly offset by increased revenue from transitional supply agreements and DLP products. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue declined 5 percent due about equally to decreased shipments of custom ASIC products and lower royalties and, to a lesser extent, decreased revenue from transitional supply agreements; revenue from calculators and DLP products partially offset these decreases. Included in operating profit for the first quarter of 2011 are about $30 million of costs resulting from the events in Japan and $2 million of acquisition-related costs associated with the announced agreement to acquire National Semiconductor. The prior quarter included a $144 million gain from the divestiture of a product line. Operating profit for the first quarter of 2011 decreased from the year-ago quarter due to lower revenue and the costs resulting from the events in Japan. Operating profit decreased sequentially due to the gain from the divestiture of a product line in the prior quarter and the costs resulting from the events in Japan. Financial Condition At the end of the first quarter of 2011, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $ 2.86 billion . This was $215 million lower than at the end of 2010. Accounts receivable were $ 1.57 billion at the end of the first quarter. This was an increase of $ 50 million from the end of 2010. Days sales outstanding were 42 at the end of the quarter compared with 39 at the end of 2010. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily the result of higher revenue in the last month of the first quarter of 2011 compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. Inventory was $ 1.68 billion at the end of the first quarter. This was an increase of $ 158 million from the end of 2010. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 91 compared with 83 at the end of 2010. Most of the inventory increase was due to building inventory to help support high customer service levels. About one-third of the sequential inventory increase was Wireless baseband inventory that resulted from weaker than expected demand from a single customer. 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Other sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and revolving credit facilities. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2011 was $516 million, a decrease of $194 million from the year-ago period. This decrease was due to changes in working capital, primarily for increased compensation payments and higher inventory levels. We had $1.34 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.51 billion of short-term investments as of March 31, 2011. We have a variable-rate revolving credit facility that allows us to borrow up to $1 billion until August 2011 and up to $920 million from August 2011 until August 2012. As of March 31, 2011, this credit facility was not being utilized. Investing activities provided cash of $63 million for the first three months of 2011, compared with $51 million used in the year-ago period. Sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, provided cash of $239 million compared with $169 million in the year-ago quarter. Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2011 totaled $194 million compared with $219 million in the year-ago quarter. These expenditures were primarily for assembly/test equipment, and to a lesser extent, for analog wafer manufacturing equipment. Net cash used in financing activities was $555 million compared with $624 million in the year-ago period. We used $771 million of cash in the first quarter of 2011 to repurchase 21.9 million shares of our common stock and paid dividends of $153 million. In the same period last year we used $504 million of cash to repurchase 20.6 million shares of common stock and paid $149 million in dividends. Employee exercises of TI stock options provided cash proceeds of $350 million compared with $29 million for the year-ago quarter. We expect our acquisition of National Semiconductor for $25 per share, or approximately $6.5 billion, to close sometime in 2011. We expect to finance the acquisition through a combination of existing cash balances and new debt issuance. In connection with the announced acquisition agreement, we obtained commitments for an unsecured bridge loan term facility and a revolving credit facility. The aggregate amount of these facilities is $3.5 billion. Each facility has a 364-day term. We believe we have the necessary financial resources to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. In 2011, we expect approximately: an annual effective tax rate of 28 percent; R&D expense of $1.7 billion; capital expenditures of $0.9 billion; and depreciation of $0.9 billion. Changes in accounting standards See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards.