ITEM 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Overview We design, make and sell semiconductors to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. Our business model is carefully constructed around the following attributes: Industrys broadest portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers design engineers need at least one, and most times multiple, chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can solve more of these needs than can our competitors, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to generate more revenue per system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio. A strong foundation of manufacturing technology and low-cost production. We invest in manufacturing technologies that differentiate the features of our semiconductors, and we do most of our own production in-house, as opposed to outsourcing it. This ability to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers. We produce billions of semiconductors each year on a mixture of 150-, 200- and 300-millimeter wafers, and we are able to keep costs low for manufacturing facilities and equipment because our analog and much of our embedded processing semiconductors can be made using mature assets that we acquire ahead of demand when their prices are most attractive. In 2015, we produced approximately 25 percent of our Analog semiconductors on 300-millimeter wafers, the industrys largest wafers, which have a 40 percent cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter wafers. The majority of our future Analog growth will be produced on 300-millimeter wafers, which will be meaningful to the growth of our margins and cash flow over the long term. Industrys largest market channels. Our global sales force is larger than those of our competitors, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts tens of millions of visits to our web site each year where customers often begin their initial product searches and design-in journey. These capabilities combine to provide us unique access to more than 100,000 customers. Diversity and longevity in our products and in the markets we serve. Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders. Because of the breadth of our portfolio we are not dependent on any single product, and because of the breadth of our markets we are not dependent on any single application or customer. Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments. The combined effect of these attributes is that we have consistently grown free cash flow and gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing. These attributes put us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders . Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. In the following discussion of our results of operations: All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars. When we discuss our results: o Unless otherwise noted, changes in our revenue are attributable to changes in customer demand, which are evidenced by fluctuations in shipment volumes. o New products tend not to have a significant impact on our revenue in any given period because we sell such a large number of products. o From time to time, our revenue and gross profit are affected by changes in demand for higher-priced or lower-priced products, which we refer to as changes in the mix of products shipped. o Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. When factory loadings decrease, our fixed costs are spread over reduced output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins decrease. Conversely, as factory loadings increase, our fixed costs are spread over increased output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins increase. Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand. Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments. 14 Performance summary Our first-quarter revenue was $3.01 billion, net income was $668 million and earnings per share (EPS) were $0.65. Revenue for the quarter was in the upper half of our expected range. Compared with a year ago, notable market activity for our products included continuing strength in automotive, as well as improvement in industrial and communications equipment. Revenue was down 5 percent due to weakness within the personal electronics market, which declined as expected. Our core businesses of Analog and Embedded Processing comprised 87 percent of first-quarter revenue. From a year ago, Analog revenue declined 8 percent while Embedded Processing revenue grew 8 percent. Operating margin increased in both businesses. Gross margin of 60.6 percent was a new record, reflecting the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production. Our cash flow from operations once again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was up 1 percent from a year ago to $3.7 billion. This represents 28.4 percent of revenue, up from 27.3 percent a year ago, and is consistent with our targeted range of 20-30 percent of revenue. We have returned $4.2 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends. Our strategy to return to shareholders 100 percent of free cash flow plus proceeds from exercises of equity compensation minus net debt retirement reflects our confidence in the long-term sustainability of our business model. Our balance sheet remains strong with $2.8 billion of cash and short-term investments at the end of the quarter, 80 percent of which was owned by the companys U.S. entities. Inventory ended the quarter at 137 days. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. For a reconciliation to GAAP and an explanation of the reason for providing this non-GAAP measure, see the Non-GAAP financial information section after the Liquidity and capital resources section. Results of operations first-quarter 2016 compared with first-quarter 2015 Revenue decreased $142 million, or 5 percent, due to lower revenue from Analog, and to a lesser extent, Other. Embedded Processing revenue grew. Gross profit of $1.82 billion was about even despite lower revenue primarily due to a combination of lower manufacturing costs and, to a lesser extent, a higher percentage of more profitable products. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit was 60.6 percent compared with 57.7 percent. Operating expenses were $326 million for R&D and $448 million for SG&A. R&D expense decreased $12 million, or 4 percent, due to savings from ongoing efforts across the company to align costs with growth opportunities, including the completed restructuring action in Embedded Processing. SG&A expense increased $9 million, or 2 percent, due to higher compensation-related costs. Acquisition charges associated with our 2011 acquisition of National were $80 million compared with $83 million. These non-cash charges were from the ongoing amortization of intangible assets. Operating profit was $968 million, or 32.2 percent of revenue, compared with $958 million, or 30.4 percent of revenue. Quarterly income taxes are calculated using the estimated annual effective tax rate. At the end of the first quarter, our estimated annual effective tax rate for 2016 was about 30 percent. Our annual effective tax rate benefits from lower tax rates (compared to the U.S. statutory rate) applicable to our operations in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate and from U.S. tax benefits. These lower non-U.S. tax rates are generally statutory in nature, without expiration and available to companies that operate in those taxing jurisdictions. Our tax provision was $282 million, about even with the year-ago quarter. Net income was $668 million compared with $656 million, and EPS was $0.65 compared with $0.61. 15 First-quarter 2016 segment results Our segment results compared with the year-ago quarter are as follows: Analog (includes High Volume Analog & Logic (HVAL), Power Management (Power), High Performance Analog (HPA) and Silicon Valley Analog (SVA) product lines) 1Q16 1Q15 Change Revenue $ 1,879 $ 2,035 -8% Operating profit 679 721 -6% Operating profit % of revenue 36.1% 35.4% Analog revenue decreased primarily due to HVAL. Power and HPA also declined, but to a lesser extent. SVA revenue increased due to the mix of products shipped. Operating profit decreased primarily due to lower revenue, which was partially offset by lower manufacturing costs and a higher percentage of more profitable products. Embedded Processing (includes Microcontrollers, Processors and Connectivity product lines) 1Q16 1Q15 Change Revenue $ 729 $ 672 8% Operating profit 182 123 48% Operating profit % of revenue 25.0% 18.3% Embedded Processing revenue increased in all three product lines, led by Processors. Connectivity and Microcontrollers increased, but to a lesser extent. The increases in Processors and Microcontrollers were primarily due to the mix of products shipped. Operating profit increased primarily due to higher revenue and associated gross profit, as well as lower operating expenses. Other (includes DLP products, calculators, custom ASICs and royalties) 1Q16 1Q15 Change Revenue $ 400 $ 443 -10% Operating profit* 107 114 -6% Operating profit % of revenue 26.8% 25.7% * Includes Acquisition charges and Restructuring charges/other Other revenue decreased primarily due to custom ASICs. Operating profit decreased by $7 million. Financial condition At the end of the first quarter of 2016, total cash (Cash and cash equivalents plus Short-term investments) was $2.80 billion, a decrease of $418 million from the end of 2015. Accounts receivable were $1.27 billion, an increase of $104 million compared with the end of 2015. Days sales outstanding were 38 at the end of the first quarter compared with 33 at the end of 2015. Inventory was $1.81 billion, an increase of $114 million from the end of 2015. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 137 compared with 115 at the end of 2015. The days increased as we staged our inventory for increased shipments in the second quarter. Also included were 3 to 4 days associated with the portion of the personal electronics market that started slowing late in the fourth quarter of 2015. We expect to ship this material later in the year. 16 Liquidity and capital resources Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and a variable-rate revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarter of 2016 was $547 million, a decrease of $62 million from the year-ago period primarily due to an increase in cash used for working capital. Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2021. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2016, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. For the first three months of 2016, investing activities provided $573 million compared with $158 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $124 million, about even with the year-ago period, and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment. We received proceeds from sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $700 million, compared with $280 million in the year-ago period. For the first three months of 2016, financing activities used cash of $839 million compared with $724 million in the year-ago period. We paid dividends of $383 million compared with $356 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $630 million to repurchase 12.4 million shares of our common stock, compared with $670 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 12.0 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $131 million compared with $246 million in the year-ago period. On April 29, 2016, we agreed to issue $500 million principal amount of debt, which we expect to use for repayment of a portion of maturing debt. The offering is expected to close on May 6, 2016. We had $1.28 billion of Cash and cash equivalents and $1.52 billion of Short-term investments as of March 31, 2016. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. Non-GAAP financial information This MD&A includes references to free cash flow and ratios based on that measure. These are financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow was calculated by subtracting Capital expenditures from the most directly comparable GAAP measure, Cash flows from operating activities (also referred to as cash flow from operations). We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to investors, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures. Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP-based measures is provided in the table below. For 12 Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change Cash flow from operations (GAAP) $ 4,206 $ 4,039 4% Capital expenditures (552) (431) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 3,654 $ 3,608 1% Revenue $ 12,858 $ 13,212 Cash flow from operations as a percent of revenue (GAAP) 32.7% 30.6% Free cash flow as a percent of revenue (non-GAAP) 28.4% 27.3% Long-term contractual obligations Information regarding long-term debt obligations is described in the long-term contractual obligations table in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 17 Changes in accounting standards See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards.