ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear elsewhere in this document. All dollar amounts in the tables in this discussion are stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except per-share amounts. Overview We design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. We began operations in 1930. We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments. We were the worlds fourth largest semiconductor company in 2009 as measured by revenue, according to preliminary estimates from an external source. Additionally, we sell calculators and related products. Product information Semiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as chips) that combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit. Our semiconductors are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. Our portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment. We sell custom and standard semiconductor products. Custom products are designed for a specific customer for a specific application, are sold only to that customer and are typically sold directly to the customer. The life cycles of custom products are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months. Standard products are designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are generally sold through both distribution and direct channels. They include both proprietary and commodity products. The life cycles of standard products are generally longer than for custom products. Additional information regarding each segments products follows. Analog Analog semiconductors change real-world signals such as sound, temperature, pressure or images by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and consumption. Sales to our Analog segments nearly 80,000 customers generated about 40 percent of our revenue in 2009. According to external sources, the worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $32 billion in 2009. Our Analog segments revenue in 2009 was $4.2 billion, or about 13 percent of this market, the leading position. We believe that we are well-positioned to increase our market share over time. Our Analog product lines are: high-volume analog & logic, high-performance analog and power management. High-volume analog & logic products: High-volume analog includes products for specific applications, including custom products. The life cycles of our high-volume analog products are generally shorter than those of our high-performance analog products. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. Logic and standard linear includes commodity products marketed to many different customers for many different applications. High-performance analog products: These include standard analog semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data converters and interface semiconductors (our portfolio includes more than 15,000 products), that we market to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets, including the industrial, communications, computing and consumer electronics markets. High-performance analog products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years. Power management products: These include both standard and custom semiconductors that help customers manage power in any type of electronic system. We design and manufacture power management semiconductors for both portable devices (battery-powered devices, such as handheld consumer electronics, laptop computers and cordless power tools) and line-powered systems (products that require an external electrical source, such as computers, digital TVs, wireless base stations and high-voltage industrial equipment). Embedded Processing Our Embedded Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our Wireless segment) and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Microcontrollers are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales of Embedded Processing products generated about 15 percent of our revenue in 2009. The worldwide market for embedded processors was about $14 billion in 2009. According to external sources, we have about 11 percent share in this fragmented market, and we believe we are well-positioned to increase our market share over time. An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and automotive. Wireless Smart phones (phones which contain computing capability) are a rapidly growing portion of the cell phone market. These devices require an applications processor to run the phones software and services, and other semiconductors to enable connectivity through means other than the cellular network (for example, Bluetooth devices, WiFi networks or GPS location services). We concentrate our Wireless investments on our OMAP TM applications processors and connectivity products. These products are central to smart phones and offer growth opportunities with a broad set of customers. We have discontinued investment in baseband chips, a market with shrinking competitive barriers and slowing growth rates. We expect substantially all of our baseband revenue, which was $1.73 billion in 2009, to cease by the end of 2012. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes, and our Wireless portfolio includes both standard products and custom products. Sales of Wireless products generated about 25 percent of our revenue in 2009, and a significant portion of our Wireless sales were to a single customer. Other Our Other segment includes revenue from sales from our smaller semiconductor product lines and of our handheld graphing and scientific calculators, as well as royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images) and custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment generated about 20 percent of our revenue in 2009. Inventory Our inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand. Because of the longer product life cycles of standard products and their inherently lower risk of obsolescence, we generally carry more of those products than custom products. Additionally, we sometimes maintain standard-product inventory in unfinished wafer form, allowing greater flexibility to meet final package and test configurations. As a result of two multi-year trends, in general we expect to carry higher levels of inventory relative to our revenue expectations (commonly viewed by investors as days of inventory) than in past years. First, standard products have become a larger part of our portfolio. Second, we have increased consignment programs for our largest customers and some distributors and, as a result, we now carry more inventory on average than in the past in order to service the needs of these customers. Manufacturing Semiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then may be retested. The entire process typically requires between 12 and 18 weeks and takes place in highly specialized facilities. We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. These include both high-volume wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity, potentially hurting our profit margins. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins. The cost and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors varies by product. Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products can be manufactured using older, less expensive equipment than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as our Wireless products. Advanced logic wafer manufacturing continually requires new and expensive processes and equipment. In contrast, the processes and equipment required for manufacturing our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products do not have this requirement. To supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital expenditures, our wafer manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries. Our strategy involves installing internal wafer fabrication capacity to a level we believe will remain fully utilized over the equipments useful lifetime and then outsourcing remaining capacity needs to foundries. In 2009, external foundries provided about 55 percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet the vast majority of our analog produ ction needs. In addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or when demand temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost advantage in maintaining internal assembly/test capacity. Our internal/external manufacturing strategy reduces the level of our required capital expenditures, and thereby reduces our subsequent levels of depreciation below what it would be if we sourced all manufacturing internally. Consequently, we experience less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. In 2009, to expand our existing wafer fabrication capacity, we began installing equipment in the industrys first 300-millimeter analog wafer factory, located in Richardson, Texas, and are currently qualifying for production. We also opened a new assembly/test facility in the Philippines to significantly increase our assembly/test capacity. Product cycle The global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes. Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature. Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to high-volume production over time. Consequently, new products tend not to have a significant revenue impact for one or more quarters after their introduction. In the results discussions below, changes in our shipments are caused by changing demand for our products unless otherwise noted. Market cycle The semiconductor cycle is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities. Seasonality Our revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. Our semiconductor sales generally are seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into cell phones and other consumer electronics devices, which have stronger sales later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the second and third quarters. Royalty revenue is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing agreements. Tax considerations We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions and are subject to several types of taxes including those that are based on income, capital, property and payroll, as well as sales and other transactional taxes. The timing of the final determination of our tax liabilities varies by jurisdiction and taxing authority. As a result, during any particular reporting period, we might reflect in our financial statements one or more tax refunds or assessments, or changes to tax liabilities, involving one or more taxing authorities. First-Quarter 2010 results Our first-quarter revenue was $3.21 billion, net income was $658 million and earnings per share were 52 cents. To support our expected growth, we invested in new manufacturing capacity for both wafer fabs and assembly/test facilities during the downturn in 2009. The strategic investments weve made over the years are delivering strong growth and market share gains. This was the fourth quarter of excellent sequential revenue increases, with the combined revenue of our Analog and Embedded Processing businesses setting a new record level. Momentum continues into the second quarter as demand for our products remains strong, and we add more manufacturing capacity to support our customers. Production output is at an all-time high, and capacity will increase each quarter in 2010 as we add 200-millimeter equipment purchased last year and as we ramp the industrys first 300-millimeter Analog facility, from which we will start shipments in the fourth quarter. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES Statements of Income (In millions, except per-share amounts) For Three Months Ended Mar. 31, 2010 Mar. 31, 2009 Dec. 31, 2009 Revenue $ 3,205 $ 2,086 $ 3,005 Cost of revenue 1,516 1,280 1,416 Gross profit 1,689 806 1,589 Research and development (R&D) 370 386 355 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) 359 305 347 Restructuring expense 10 105 12 Operating profit 950 10 875 Other income (expense) net 7 5 6 Income before income taxes 957 15 881 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 299 (2 ) 226 Net income $ 658 $ 17 $ 655 Earnings per common share: Basic $ .53 $ .01 $ .52 Diluted $ .52 $ .01 $ .52 Average shares outstanding (millions): Basic 1,233 1,275 1,243 Diluted 1,246 1,277 1,257 Cash dividends declared per share of common stock $ .12 $ .11 $ .12 Percentage of revenue: Gross profit 52.7 % 38.6 % 52.9 % R&D 11.5 % 18.5 % 11.8 % SG&A 11.2 % 14.6 % 11.5 % Operating profit 29.7 % 0.5 % 29.1 % Details of financial results Revenue for the first quarter of 2010 was $3.21 billion, an increase of $1.12 billion, or 54 percent, from the year-ago quarter, and $200 million, or 7 percent from the prior quarter. Revenue in all segments increased over the year-ago quarter primarily due to increased shipments across a broad range of products. We typically have slightly lower revenue in the first quarter compared to the prior quarter due to seasonality. However, this quarter our higher revenue reflected strength in a broad spectrum of markets, except for Wireless. The decrease in Wireless revenue was primarily due to seasonally lower shipments of baseband products. Gross profit for the first quarter of 2010 was $1.69 billion, or 52.7 percent of revenue, an increase of $883 million, or 110 percent, from the year-ago quarter. Gross profit increased $100 million, or 6 percent, from the prior quarter. The increase in gross profit in both comparisons was primarily due to higher revenue. The comparison with the year-ago quarter also benefited from a $170 million favorable impact from higher utilization of our fixed-cost manufacturing assets. Our gross margin decreased from the prior quarter as utilization remained about even and compensation-related expenses increased. Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2010 were $370 million for R&D and $359 million for SG&A. R&D expense decreased $16 million, or 4 percent, from a year ago primarily due to lower Wireless baseband product development costs, partially offset by higher compensation-related costs. R&D expense increased $15 million, or 4 percent, from the prior quarter due to higher compensation-related costs. SG&A expense increased $54 million, or 18 percent, from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to higher compensation-related costs and, to a lesser extent, increased investments in sales and marketing activities. Compared with the prior quarter SG&A expense increased $12 million, or 3 percent, from the prior quarter, due to higher compensation-related costs. Restructuring costs in the first quarter of 2010 were $10 million, reflecting settlements of U.S. pension plan benefits for employees affected by actions taken in 2008 and 2009. This compares with $105 million in the year-ago quarter and $12 million in the previous quarter. The restructuring costs in the first quarter of 2009 were primarily for severance and benefits costs. These actions were completed in 2009 (see Note 2 to the Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of these charges and payments made during the quarter). For the first quarter of 2010, our operating profit was $950 million, or 29.7 percent of revenue, compared with $10 million, or 0.5 percent of revenue, for the year-ago quarter, and $875 million, or 29.1 percent of revenue, for the previous quarter. The increase in operating profit from a year ago was due to higher gross profit, and to a lesser extent, lower restructuring charges. The increase from the prior quarter was also due to higher gross profit, which more than offset higher operating expenses. As of March 31, 2010, the estimated annual effective tax rate for 2010 is expected to be about 31 percent (see Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional information). The tax rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009. Quarterly income taxes are calculated using the estimated annual effective tax rate. For the first quarter of 2010 our tax provision was $299 million, compared with a net tax benefit of $2 million in the year-ago quarter and a tax provision of $226 million in the previous quarter. The increase in the tax provision from both periods was primarily due to higher income before income taxes. In the first quarter of 2010, our net income was $658 million, compared with net income of $17 million for the year-ago quarter and $655 million for the prior quarter. Earnings per share were $0.52, compared with $0.01 per share for the year-ago quarter and $0.52 per share for the prior quarter. Orders in the first quarter were $3.64 billion, an increase of 66 percent from the year-ago quarter when orders were unusually weak as customers reduced their inventory in response to the slowing global economy. Compared with the prior quarter, orders were up 12 percent. Segment results All periods have been restated to reflect the transfer of a low-power wireless product line from our Analog segment to our Wireless segment. During 2009, revenue from this product line was $68 million, and it operated at a loss of $17 million. Analog 1Q10 1Q09 1Q10 vs. 1Q09 4Q09 1Q10 vs. 4Q09 Revenue $ 1,367 $ 802 70 % $ 1,263 8 % Operating profit (loss) * 398 (26 ) -- % 383 4 % Operating profit (loss) % of revenue 29.1 % (3.2 %) 30.3 % *Includes restructuring expenses of $ 4 $ 40 $ 6 Analog revenue increased 70 percent from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to increased shipments in all major product areas, especially high-volume analog & logic and power management products. The higher revenue and associated gross profit resulted in an improvement in operating profit compared with the year-ago quarter. Revenue increased 8 percent from the prior quarter, due about equally to higher shipments in all three major product areas. Operating profit increased 4 percent from the previous quarter due to the increase in revenue and higher associated gross profit, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Embedded Processing 1Q10 1Q09 1Q10 vs. 1Q09 4Q09 1Q10 vs. 4Q09 Revenue $ 440 $ 316 39 % $ 412 7 % Operating profit* 73 2 3,550 % 89 -18 % Operating profit % of revenue 16.7 % 0.6 % 21.5 % *Includes restructuring expenses of $ 2 $ 19 $ 3 Embedded Processing revenue increased 39 percent from the year-ago quarter and 7 percent from the prior quarter. These increases were primarily due to increased shipments of catalog products. Shipments of automotive products also increased from the year-ago quarter, although to a lesser extent. Compared to the year-ago quarter, operating profit increased due to the combination of higher revenue and associated higher gross profit. Operating profit was 18 percent lower than the previous quarter due to higher operating expenses as we increased investment in this segment. Wireless 1Q10 1Q09 1Q10 vs. 1Q09 4Q09 1Q10 vs. 4Q09 Revenue $ 717 $ 563 27 % $ 758 -5 % Operating profit (loss) * 158 (22 ) -- % 181 -13 % Operating profit (loss) % of revenue 22.0 % (4.0 %) 23.9 % *Includes restructuring expenses of $ 3 $ 34 $ 1 Wireless revenue increased 27 percent from the year-ago quarter. This increase was primarily due to increased shipments of connectivity products and, to a lesser extent, applications processor products. Also contributing to the segments revenue increase was baseband product revenue, as we shipped an increased proportion of higher-priced products. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue declined 5 percent due to lower shipments of baseband products. Baseband revenue for the first quarter of 2010 was $424 million, an increase of $24 million, or 6 percent, from the year-ago quarter and a seasonal decrease of $41 million, or 9 percent, from the prior quarter. The increase in Wireless operating profit compared with the year-ago quarter was primarily due to higher revenue and associated higher gross profit and, to a lesser ex tent, lower restructuring costs and lower operating expenses. Compared with the prior quarter, operating profit declined 13 percent due to lower revenue and lower associated gross profit. Other 1Q10 1Q09 1Q10 vs. 1Q09 4Q09 1Q10 vs. 4Q09 Revenue $ 681 $ 405 68 % $ 572 19 % Operating profit* 321 56 473 % 222 45 % Operating profit % of revenue 47.2 % 13.8 % 39.0 % *Includes restructuring expenses of $ 1 $ 12 $ 2 Other revenue increased 68 percent from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to higher shipments of DLP products and higher royalties. Also contributing to the increase, to a lesser extent, were increased shipments of custom ASIC products and calculators. Compared with the prior quarter, revenue increased 19 percent due to increased royalties and increased shipments of, in decreasing order, custom ASIC products, DLP products and calculators. Operating profit for the first quarter of 2010 increased from both the year-ago quarter and the prior quarter due to higher revenue and higher associated gross profit. Financial condition At the end of the first quarter of 2010, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $2.79 billion. This was $134 million lower than at the end of 2009. Accounts receivable were $1.53 billion at the end of the quarter. This was an increase of $249 million from the end of 2009. Days sales outstanding were 43 at the end of the quarter compared with 38 at the end of 2009. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily the result of seasonally lower shipments in December, and to a lesser extent, higher first-quarter revenue. Inventory was $1.28 billion at the end of the quarter. This was an increase of $74 million from the end of 2009. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter were 76, unchanged from the end of 2009. Liquidity and capital resources Our sources of liquidity are our cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and revolving credit facilities. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2010 was $710 million, an increase of $459 million from the year-ago period. This increase was due to the increase in net income, partially offset by changes in working capital, primarily for inventory. We have $1.22 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.57 billion of short-term investments as of March 31, 2010. We have a multi-year $1 billion revolving credit facility. We also have a non-U.S. revolving credit facility of $175 million that expires in November 2010. As of March 31, 2010, these credit facilities were not being utilized. Investing activities used cash of $51 million, compared with providing cash of $363 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2010 totaled $219 million. This was an increase of $176 million from a year ago primarily due to increased expenditures for assembly/test manufacturing equipment, and to a lesser extent, for analog wafer manufacturing equipment. In the year-ago quarter, net reductions in short-term investments from purchases, sales and maturities provided cash of $509 million compared with $169 million in the current quarter. Net cash used in financing activities was $624 million, compared with $224 million in the year-ago period. We used $504 million of cash in the first quarter of 2010 to repurchase 20.6 million shares of our common stock and paid dividends of $149 million. In the same period last year we used $101 million of cash to repurchase 6.6 million shares of common stock and paid $141 million in dividends. In 2010, we expect: an annual effective tax rate of about 31 percent; R&D expense of $1.5 billion; capital expenditures of $0.9 billion; and depreciation of $0.9 billion. The tax rate is based on current tax law and does not assume reinstatement of the federal research tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009. We believe we have the necessary financial resources to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. Changes in accounting standards See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting standards that are not yet effective for us.