ITEM 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations Overview We design, make and sell semiconductors to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. For many years, we have run our business with three overarching ambitions in mind. First, we will act like owners who will own the company for decades. Second, we will adapt and succeed in a world that is ever changing. And third, we will be a company that we are personally proud to be a part of and that we would want as our neighbor. When we are successful in achieving these ambitions, our employees, customers, communities and shareholders all win. Our business model is designed around the following four sustainable competitive advantages that we believe, in combination, put us in a unique class of companies: A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology. We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house. This strategic decision to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers and also allows us to invest in technology that differentiates the features of our products. We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing cost advantage by investing in our advanced analog 300-millimeter capacity, which has about a 40% cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter. To strengthen this advantage, we are moving forward with our plan to build our new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Richardson, Texas, as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth. Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing products. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can meet more of these needs than our competitors can, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products. Reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors websites. Our web presence and global sales and applications team are advantages that give us unique access and insight to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products. Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions. Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders. Because of the breadth of our portfolio, we are not dependent on any single product, customer, technology or market. Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments. Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets. We believe these markets represent the best growth opportunities over the next decade or longer, due to increasing semiconductor content. Additionally, analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders. The combined effect of our ambitions, business model and sustainable competitive advantages is that we have continued to build a stronger company. Over time, we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and grown and returned all free cash flow to our owners. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. In the following discussion of our results of operations: Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments. 15 When we discuss our results: Unless otherwise noted, changes in our revenue are attributable to changes in customer demand, which are evidenced by fluctuations in shipment volumes. New products do not tend to have a significant impact on our revenue in any given period because we sell such a large number of products. From time to time, our revenue and gross profit are affected by changes in demand for higher-priced or lower-priced products, which we refer to as changes in the mix of products shipped. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. When factory loadings decrease, our fixed costs are spread over reduced output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins decrease. Conversely, as factory loadings increase, our fixed costs are spread over increased output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins increase. Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand. All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars. Impact of COVID-19 The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the likely resulting recession and its follow-on effects are impacting and will likely continue to impact business activity across industries worldwide, including TI. The impact to our lead times and ability to fulfill orders was minimal in Q1 2020. However, depending on pandemic-related factors like the duration of local manufacturing restrictions in Malaysia and the Philippines, we could experience constraints in fulfilling customer orders in future periods. The coronavirus pandemic remains dynamic with uncertainty around its duration and broader impact. We are monitoring and assessing the situation and preparing for implications to our business, supply chain and customer demand. With a COVID-19 recession likely upon us, and with reduced visibility of customer demand, we are using the 2008 financial crisis to model our forecasted second quarter results of operations in an environment of a potentially significant decrease in customer demand. TI has long had a business continuity plan in place for unforeseeable situations, like we are experiencing with COVID-19. Additionally, over the past several years, TI has invested in building inventory and expanding our global internally-owned manufacturing footprint. Investing in these capabilities has given us flexibility, such as the ability to build products across multiple manufacturing sites. These investments have helped to minimize disruptions, but may not be sufficient to eliminate them. Performance summary Our first quarter revenue was $3.33 billion, net income was $1.17 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.24. Revenue decreased 7% from the same quarter a year ago. In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 18% from the same quarter a year ago. Our cash flow from operations of $6.4 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the same period was $5.6 billion and 40% of revenue. This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production. We have returned $6.6 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends. Over the same period, our dividends represented 55% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability. Together, our stock repurchases and dividends reflect our continued commitment to return all free cash flow to our shareholders. We expect our annual operating tax rate to be about 14% in 2020. For an explanation of free cash flow and the term annual operating tax rate, see the Non-GAAP financial information section. 16 Results of operations first quarter 2020 compared with first quarter 2019 Revenue of $3.33 billion decreased $265 million, or 7%, primarily due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and, to a lesser extent, Analog. Gross profit of $2.09 billion was down $173 million, or 8%, due to lower revenue. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 62.7% from 62.9%. Operating expenses (R&D and SG&A) were $794 million compared with $803 million. Acquisition charges were $50 million compared with $79 million and were non-cash. See Note 5 to the financial statements. Operating profit was $1.24 billion, or 37.4% of revenue, compared with $1.38 billion, or 38.4% of revenue. OI&E was $25 million of income compared with $36 million of income. Interest and debt expense of $45 million increased $7 million due to the issuance of additional long-term debt. Our provision for income taxes was $50 million compared with $160 million. The decrease was due to higher discrete tax benefits, lower income before income taxes and, to a lesser extent, a lower annual operating tax rate. Our annual operating tax rate, which does not include discrete tax items, is about 14% compared with 16% in 2019. We use annual operating tax rate to describe the estimated annual effective tax rate. The 2020 rate differs from the 21% U.S. statutory corporate tax rate due to the effect of U.S. tax benefits. Net income was $1.17 billion compared with $1.22 billion. EPS was $1.24 compared with $1.26. First quarter 2020 segment results Our segment results compared with the year-ago quarter are as follows: Analog (includes Power, Signal Chain and High Volume product lines) Q1 2020 Q1 2019 Change Revenue $ 2,460 $ 2,518 (2) % Operating profit 1,025 1,088 (6) % Operating profit % of revenue 41.7 % 43.2 % Analog revenue decreased in Signal Chain and High Volume due to the mix of products shipped. Power revenue increased. Operating profit decreased primarily due to lower revenue and associated gross profit. Embedded Processing (includes Connected Microcontrollers and Processors product lines) Q1 2020 Q1 2019 Change Revenue $ 653 $ 796 (18) % Operating profit 182 249 (27) % Operating profit % of revenue 27.9 % 31.3 % Embedded Processing revenue decreased in both product lines, led by Processors. Operating profit decreased due to lower revenue and associated gross profit. Other (includes DLP products, calculators and custom ASIC products) Q1 2020 Q1 2019 Change Revenue $ 216 $ 280 (23) % Operating profit* 37 42 (12) % Operating profit % of revenue 17.1 % 15.0 % * Includes acquisition charges Other revenue decreased $64 million, and operating profit decreased $5 million. 17 Financial condition At the end of the first quarter of 2020, total cash (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments) was $4.74 billion, a decrease of $645 million from the end of 2019. Accounts receivable were $1.32 billion, an increase of $242 million compared with the end of 2019. Days sales outstanding at the end of the first quarter of 2020 were 36 compared with 29 at the end of 2019. Inventory was $2.00 billion, an increase of $2 million from the end of 2019. Days of inventory at the end of the first quarter of 2020 were 145 compared with 144 at the end of 2019. Liquidity and capital resources Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2020 were $851 million, a decrease of $256 million from the year-ago period primarily due to lower net income and an increase in cash used for working capital. Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2020, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. Investing activities for the first three months of 2020 provided $826 million compared with $1.17 billion of cash provided in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $161 million compared with $251 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and facilities in both periods. Short-term investments provided cash of $992 million compared with $1.44 billion in the year-ago period. Financing activities for the first three months of 2020 used $1.60 billion compared with $998 million in the year-ago period. In 2020, we received net proceeds of $749 million from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt. In the year-ago period, we received net proceeds of $743 million from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt. Dividends paid were $841 million compared with $724 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $1.64 billion to repurchase 14.9 million shares of our common stock compared with $1.15 billion used in the year-ago period to repurchase 11.7 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $146 million compared with $151 million in the year-ago period. We had $2.52 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $2.22 billion of short-term investments as of March 31, 2020. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. Non-GAAP financial information This MD&A includes references to free cash flow and ratios based on that measure. These are financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Free cash flow was calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from the most directly comparable GAAP measure, cash flows from operating activities (also referred to as cash flow from operations). We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures. 18 Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the table below. For 12 Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Cash flow from operations (GAAP) $ 6,393 $ 7,184 (11) % Capital expenditures (757) (1,193) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 5,636 $ 5,991 (6) % Revenue $ 14,118 $ 15,589 Cash flow from operations as a percentage of revenue (GAAP) 45.3 % 46.1 % Free cash flow as a percentage of revenue (non-GAAP) 39.9 % 38.4 % This MD&A also includes references to an annual operating tax rate, a non-GAAP term we use to describe the estimated annual effective tax rate, a GAAP measure that by definition does not include discrete tax items. We believe the term annual operating tax rate helps differentiate from the effective tax rate, which includes discrete tax items. Long-term contractual obligations Information regarding long-term contractual obligations is in Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Additionally, in the first three months of 2020, we issued $750 million principal amount of 1.375% notes maturing in 2025. These proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including to repay $ 500 million of 1.75 % notes in April 2020. Changes in accounting standards See Note 2 to the financial statements for information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards. 19