Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2021. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. See the discussion under Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and particularly in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full calendar year or any other period. Overview We are the worlds largest online marketplace for authenticated, consigned luxury goods. We are revolutionizing luxury resale by providing an end-to-end service that unlocks supply from consignors and creates a trusted, curated online marketplace for buyers globally. Since our inception in 2011, we have cultivated a loyal and engaged consignor and buyer base through continuous investment in our technology platform, logistics infrastructure and people. We offer a wide selection of authenticated, primarily pre-owned luxury goods on our online marketplace bearing the brands of thousands of luxury and premium designers. We offer products across multiple categories including womens, mens, kids, jewelry and watches, and home and art. We have built a vibrant online marketplace that we believe expands the overall luxury market, promotes the recirculation of luxury goods and contributes to a more sustainable world. We have transformed the luxury consignment experience by removing the friction and pain points inherent in the traditional consignment model. For consignors, we offer concierge in-home consultation and pickup, subject to safety requirements related to the COVID pandemic, and meetings with consignors via online face-to-face platforms, or Virtual Consultations. Consignors may also drop off items at our luxury consignment offices. Our flagship and neighborhood stores, retail stores with smaller square footage, provide an alternative location to drop off consigned items and an opportunity to interact with our experts. Consignors may also utilize our complimentary shipping directly to our authentication centers. We leverage our proprietary transactional database and market insights from approximately 19.7 million item sales since inception to deliver optimal pricing and rapid sell-through. For buyers, we offer highly coveted and exclusive authenticated pre-owned luxury goods at attractive values, as well as a high-quality experience befitting the products we offer. Our online marketplace is powered by our proprietary technology platform, including consumer facing applications and purpose-built software that supports our complex, single-SKU inventory management system. The substantial majority of our revenue is generated by consignment sales. We also generate revenue from other services and direct sales. Consignment and service revenue. When we sell goods through our online marketplace or retail stores on behalf of our consignors, we retain a percentage of the proceeds, which we refer to as our take rate. Take rates vary depending on the total value of goods sold through our online marketplace on behalf of a particular consignor as well as the category and price point of the items. In the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 34.5% and 36.0%, respectively. The decrease in our take rate was due to the higher sales mix of lower take rate categories such as watches, handbags, fine jewelry, and sneakers. Additionally, we earn revenue from shipping fees and from our subscription program, First Look , in which we offer buyers early access to the items we sell in exchange for a monthly fee. Direct revenue. In certain cases, such as when we accept out of policy returns from buyers, or when we make direct purchases from businesses and consignors, we take ownership of goods and retain 100% of the proceeds when the goods subsequently sell through our online marketplace or retail stores. We generate revenue from orders processed through our website, mobile app and retail stores located in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Palo Alto, Newport Beach, Greenwich, Dallas, Austin, Atlanta, and San Francisco. Our omni-channel experience enables buyers to purchase anytime and anywhere. We have a global base of more than 23.6 million members as of June 30, 2021. We count as a member any user who has registered an email address on our website or downloaded our mobile app, thereby agreeing to our terms of service. Through June 30, 2021, we have cumulatively paid more than $2.1 billion in commissions to our consignors. Our GMV increased by 91% to $350.0 million from $182.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 26 Table of Contents Our GMV increased by 54% to $677.3 million from $440.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Additionally, NMV increased by 83% to $256.5 million from $139.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020 due to the magnitude of GMV growth, partially offset by an increase in returns year over year. Our NMV increased by 54% to $500.7 million from $324.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our total revenue increased by 83% to $104.9 million from $57.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our total revenue increased by 51% to $203.7 million from $135.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. In the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, our gross profit was $63.4 million and $35.7 million, respectively, representing an increase of 78%. In the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, our gross profit was $121.8 million and $84.7 million, respectively. See Impact of COVID-19 on our Business below. Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business In the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted our business operations and results. Operations in the Companys fulfillment facilitates were initially limited in accordance with shelter-in-place orders resulting in operations below full capacity. In-person concierge consignment appointments were temporarily suspended and our retail stores and luxury consignment offices were temporarily closed. GMV decreased in 2020 due to the adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. During the second half of 2020, operations capacity was no longer limited by restrictions related to COVID-19 and all luxury consignment offices and retail stores were open. In-person concierge consignment appointments were available as an option for our consignor base and were augmented with virtual appointments. In March 2021, the Company resumed in-person concierge consignment appointments. GMV trends have improved significantly as GMV increased approximately 91% in the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the same period last year. Despite the continuing impact of COVID-19 on the overall economy, we also saw growth in active buyers. While government restrictions have in many locations been removed or eased, the future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic remains highly uncertain, and our business and results of operations, including our net revenues, earnings and cash flows, could be adversely impacted. We are continuing to closely monitor the effects of the ongoing pandemic and its impact on our business. Travel and border closures do not significantly affect our business as we operate a U.S. focused marketplace. Throughout the pandemic, our top priority has been to protect the health and safety of our employees and our customers. We have enforced social distancing in our authentication centers, enabled virtual consignment appointments, implemented curbside pick-up of products from our consignors, and enabled our corporate employees to work remotely. The impact of these actions on our workforce are difficult to assess. However, we do not believe that these remote work arrangements have adversely affected our ability to maintain our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure