Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may include statements concerning, among other things, our business strategy (including anticipated trends and developments in, and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate), financial results, results of operations, revenues, operating expenses, and capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives and competition. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, might, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, suggests, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance; they reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from expectations or results projected or implied by forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors and in other filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which are inherently subject to change and involve risks and uncertainties. Unless required by federal securities laws, we assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated, to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the statements are made. Given these uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Investors should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents that we reference in this report and have filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. References to Notes are notes included in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a technology company that empowers buyers of advertising. Through our self-service, cloud-based platform, ad buyers can create, manage, and optimize more expressive data-driven digital advertising campaigns across ad formats, including display, video, audio, native and social, on a multitude of devices, such as computers, mobile devices, and connected TV (CTV). Our platforms integrations with major data, inventory, and publisher partners provides ad buyers reach and decisioning capabilities, and our enterprise APIs enable our customers to develop on top of the platform. We commercially launched our platform in 2011 targeting display advertising. We have since extended our platform to address additional advertising formats, and in 2018, approximately 72% of gross spend on our platform was for mobile, video, audio, native and social. Our clients are primarily the advertising agencies and other service providers for advertisers, with whom we enter into ongoing master services agreements, or MSAs. We generate revenue by charging our clients a platform fee based on a percentage of a clients total spend on advertising. We also generate revenue from providing data and other value added services and platform features. Executive Summary Highlights For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018: revenue was $121.0 million and $85.7 million, respectively, representing an increase of 41%; and net income was $10.2 million and $9.1 million, respectively. Trends, Opportunities and Challenges The growing digitization of media and fragmentation of audiences has increased the complexity of advertising, and thereby increased the need for automation in ad buying, which we provide on our platform. In order to grow, we will need to continue to develop our platforms programmatic capabilities and advertising inventory. We believe that key opportunities include our ongoing global expansion, continuing development of our CTV, video, audio, and native ad inventory, and continuing development of data usage and advertising targeting capabilities. 13 We believe that growth of the programmatic advertising market is important for our ability to grow our business. Adoption of programmatic advertising by advertisers allows us to acquire new clients and grow revenue from existing clients. Although our clients include some of the largest advertising agencies in the world, we believe there is significant room for us to expand further within these clients and gain a larger amount of their advertising spend through our platfo rm. We also believe that the industry trends noted above will lead to advertisers adopting programmatic advertising through platforms such as ours. Similarly, the adoption of programmatic advertising by inventory owners and content providers allows us to expand the volume and type of advertising inventory that we present to our clients. For example, we have expanded our CTV, native and audio advertising offerings through our recent integrations with supply-side partners. We invest for long-term growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly in the foreseeable future as we invest in platform operations and technology and development to enhance our product features, including programmatic buying of CTV ad inventory, and in sales and marketing to acquire new clients and reinforce our relationships with existing clients. In addition, we expect to continue making investments in our infrastructure, including our information technology, financial and administrative systems and controls, to support our growing operations. In addition, we believe the markets outside of the United States (U.S.) offer an opportunity for growth, and we intend to make additional investments in sales and marketing and product development to expand in these markets, including China, where we are making significant investments in our platform and growing our team. We believe that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth, although they may negatively impact profitability in the near term. Our business model has allowed us to grow significantly, and we believe that our operating leverage enables us to support future growth profitably. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income data for each of the periods presented and as a percentage of our revenue for those periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Revenue $ 120,987 $ 85,668 Operating expenses: Platform operations 33,651 22,897 Sales and marketing 22,737 16,030 Technology and development 25,312 17,701 General and administrative 33,617 19,110 Total operating expenses 115,317 75,738 Income from operations 5,670 9,930 Total other expense, net 333 700 Income before income taxes 5,337 9,230 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (4,814 ) 160 Net income $ 10,151 $ 9,070 14 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (as a percentage of revenue*) Revenue 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Platform operations 28 27 Sales and marketing 19 19 Technology and development 21 21 General and administrative 28 22 Total operating expenses 95 88 Income from operations 5 12 Total other expense, net 1 Income before income taxes 4 11 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (4 ) Net income 8 % 11 % * Percentages may not sum due to rounding. Revenue Change 2019 2018 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 120,987 $ 85,668 $ 35,319 41 % The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases in gross spend on our platform by existing clients, which was driven by increases in the number of advertising campaigns executed per client. Platform Operations Change 2019 2018 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 33,651 $ 22,897 $ 10,754 47 % Percent of revenue 28 % 27 % The increase in platform operations expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $6.5 million in hosting costs, $1.7 million in personnel costs, including $0.3 million of stock-based compensation, and $1.3 million in allocated facilities. The increase in hosting costs was due to the increased use of our platform by our clients. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in headcount for our client support team. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new office leases to support our growth. We expect platform operations expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in future periods as we continue to experience increased volumes of transactions through our platform and hire additional personnel to support our clients. Sales and Marketing Change 2019 2018 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 22,737 $ 16,030 $ 6,707 42 % Percent of revenue 19 % 19 % 15 The increase in sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $4.5 million in personnel costs, including $1.3 million o f stock-based compensation and $1.6 million in allocated facilities costs . The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in headcount to support our sales efforts and continue to develop and maintain relationships with our clients. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new office leases to support our growth. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods, as we focus on increasing the adoption of our platform with existing and new clients and expanding our international business. Technology and Development Change 2019 2018 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 25,312 $ 17,701 $ 7,611 43 % Percent of revenue 21 % 21 % The increase in technology and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $6.6 million in personnel costs, including $2.6 million of stock-based compensation, and $1.6 million in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in headcount to maintain and support our technology and development efforts. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new office leases to support our growth. We expect technology and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the development of our platform to support additional features and functions, increase the number of advertising and data inventory suppliers and ramp up the volume of advertising spending on our platform. We also intend to invest in technology to further automate our business processes. General and Administrative Change 2019 2018 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 33,617 $ 19,110 $ 14,507 76 % Percent of revenue 28 % 22 % The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $12.8 million in personnel costs, including $4.5 million of stock-based compensation, and $1.2 million in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to increased headcount to support our growth. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new office leases to support our growth. We expect to continue to invest in corporate infrastructure to support growth. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. Total Other Expense, Net 2019 2018 $ Change (in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 333 $ 700 $ (367 ) The decrease in total other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases in interest income of $0.9 million, decreases in interest expense of $0.3 million, partially offset by increases in foreign currency exchange loss, net of $0.8 million. Provision For (Benefit From) Income Taxes 2019 2018 ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ (4,814 ) $ 160 Effective tax rate (90 )% 2 % 16 The U.S. federal statutory tax rate was 21% for the 201 9 and 201 8 periods, respectively. The decrease in the provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period was primarily due to a higher overall benefit associated with stock-based awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were benefits associated with stock-based awards of approximately $11.0 million and $3.4 million, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $143.8 million, including cash of $32.4 million held by our international subsidiaries, short-term investments in marketable securities of $74.1 million and working capital of $361.3 million. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and our undrawn balance under our second amended and restated credit facility (refer to the discussion under Credit Facility below) will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our credit facility matures in May 2022. Further, in November 2017, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, or the Shelf Registration, which permits us to issue equity securities and equity-linked securities from time to time, subject to certain limitations. The Shelf Registration is intended to provide us with additional flexibility to access capital markets for general corporate purposes, subject to market conditions and our capital needs. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In the future, we may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could be unfavorable to equity investors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if our operating performance during the next 12 months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. Credit Facility On October 26, 2018, we and a syndicate of banks, led by Citibank, N.A., as agent, entered into the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Second A&R Credit Agreement, which we also refer to as our credit facility). Available funding commitments to us under our credit facility, subject to certain conditions, total up to $150.0 million, with a $20.0 million sublimit for swingline borrowings and a $15.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Under certain circumstances, we have the right to increase our credit facility by an amount not to exceed $100.0 million. As of March 31, 2019, we did not have an outstanding debt balance under our credit facility, and availability was $143.3 million. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2019. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 9,711 $ 11,807 Cash flows used in investing activities $ (81,452 ) $ (2,656 ) Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities $ 8,350 $ (26,149 ) Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by growth in our operations, increases or decreases in collections from our clients and related payments to our suppliers for advertising inventory and data. We typically pay suppliers in advance of collections from our clients. Our collection and payment cycles can vary from period to period. In addition, we expect seasonality to impact cash flows from operating activities on a sequential quarterly basis during the year. 17 For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash provided by operating activities of $9.7 million resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash items of $ 3 5.5 million, partially offset by a net decrease in our working capital of $ 2 5.8 million. The net decrease in working capital was primarily due to a de crease of $ 13 8.9 million in accounts payable, partially offset by de crease of $ 127.2 million in accounts receivable . The decrease in accounts payable was due to the timing of payments to suppliers for the cost of advertising inventory, data and add-on features . The de crease in accounts receivable resulted from the de crease in spend t hrough our platform , seasonality and the timing of cash receipts from clients. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by operating activities of $11.8 million resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash items of $19.0 million and a decrease of $42.4 million in accounts receivable, partially offset by a decrease of $49.7 million in accounts payable. The decreases in accounts receivable and accounts payable were primarily due to the aforementioned seasonality factors described above. Investing Activities Our primary investing activities consist of investing in short-term investments in marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment in support of our expanding headcount as a result of our growth, and capital expenditures to develop our software in support of enhancing our technology platform. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we used $81.5 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $74.0 million to purchase short-term investments, $6.1 million to purchase property and equipment, and $1.4 million of investments in capitalized software. Purchases of property and equipment and investments in capitalized software support our growth and further development of our platform. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, we used $2.7 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $1.8 million to purchase property and equipment and $0.9 million of investments in capitalized software to support our growth and further develop our platform. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities of $8.4 million was primarily due to the $9.5 million proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by $1.1 million of taxes paid for restricted stock award settlements. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash used in financing activities of $26.1 million was primarily due to the repayment of $27.0 million of our line of credit outstanding balance and taxes paid related to net settlement of restricted stock awards of $0.4 million. Partially offsetting cash used in financing activities were proceeds from stock option exercises of $1.2 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any relationships with other entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements at March 31, 2019 other than the indemnification agreements described below. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of our non-cancelable operating leases for our various office facilities, and other contractual commitments consisting of obligations to our hosting services providers, marketing contracts and providers of software as a service. In certain cases, the terms of the lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at March 31, 2019: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year (Remaining 2019) 1-3 Years (2020 and 2021) 3-5 Years (2022 and 2023) More than 5 Years (Thereafter) (in thousands) Lease commitments $ 248,794 $ 13,448 $ 57,536 $ 58,002 $ 119,808 Other contractual commitments 224,129 52,379 61,520 60,230 50,000 Total $ 472,923 $ 65,827 $ 119,056 $ 118,232 $ 169,808 18 In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements in which we may agree to indemnify clients, suppliers, vendors, lessors, business partners, lenders, stockholders and other parties with respect to certain matters, including losses resulting from claims of intellectual property infringement, damages to property or persons, business losses , or other liabilities. Generally, these indemnity and defense obligations relate to our own business operations, obligations, and acts or omissions. However, under some circumstances, we agree to indemnify and defend contract counterparties against losses resulting from their own business operations, obligations, and acts or omissions, or the business operations, obligations, and acts or omissions of third parties. These indemnity provisions generally survive termination or expiration of the agreements in which they appear. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors, executive officers and other officers that will require us to indemnify them against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as dire ctors, officers or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with the evaluation of revenue recognition criteria, including the determination of revenue recognition as net versus gross in our revenue arrangements, operating lease assets and liabilities, including our incremental borrowing rate and terms and provisions of each lease, stock-based compensation expense and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. Except for the changes described in Note 2 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements, there were no other changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Leases We have operating leases for our offices. We recognize most of our operating lease rights and commitments as operating lease assets, or right-of-use assets (ROU Assets), and operating lease liabilities (Lease Liabilities), respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases include ROU Assets, which we include as operating lease assets on our consolidated balance sheets. The Lease Liabilities associated with operating leases are included in operating lease liabilities and operating lease liabilities, non-current on our consolidated balance sheets. ROU Assets and Lease Liabilities are initially recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term, which includes the minimum unconditional term of the lease, and may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain at the commencement date that such options will be exercised. The decision to include these options involves consideration of our overall growth plans, as well as other strategic requirements. Since determination of the lease term requires an application of judgment, lease terms that differ from our determination could potentially have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet. As the rate implicit for each of our leases is not readily determinable, we use our incremental borrowing rate, based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of our expected lease payments. The rate is determined by analyzing and combining an applicable risk-free rate, a financial spread adjustment and any lease specific adjustment. Since determination of our incremental borrowing rate requires an application of judgment, rates that differ from our determination could potentially have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements.