Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may include statements concerning, among other things, our business strategy (including anticipated trends and developments in, and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate), financial results, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other macroeconomic factors on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we, our clients, and partners operate, results of operations, revenues, operating expenses, share repurchases and capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives and competition. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, might, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, suggests, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance; they reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from expectations or results projected or implied by forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors and in other filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which are inherently subject to change and involve risks and uncertainties. Unless required by federal securities laws, we assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated, to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the statements are made. Given these uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Investors should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents that we reference in this report and have filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. References to Notes are notes included in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We offer a self-service, cloud-based ad-buying platform that empowers our clients to plan, manage, optimize and measure more expressive data-driven digital advertising campaigns. Our platform allows clients to execute integrated campaigns across ad formats and channels, including video (which includes CTV), display, audio, digital-out-of-home, native and social, on a multitude of devices, such as computers, mobile devices, televisions and streaming devices. Our platforms integrations with major inventory, publisher and data partners provide ad buyers reach and decisioning capabilities, and our enterprise application programming interfaces enable our clients to customize and expand platform functionality. Our clients are advertising agencies, brands and other service providers for advertisers, with whom we enter into ongoing master service agreements (MSAs). We generate revenue by charging our clients a platform fee based on a percentage of a clients total spend on advertising. We also generate revenue from providing data and other value-added services and platform features. 14 Table of Contents Executive Summary Highlights Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, Dollars Change Dollars Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 493,266 $ 394,773 $ 98,493 25 % $ 1,340,323 $ 1,087,058 $ 253,265 23 % Net income (loss) $ 39,352 $ 15,869 $ 23,483 148 % $ 81,617 $ (17,802) $ 99,419 NM __________________ NM: Not meaningful. Trends, Opportunities and Challenges The growing digitization of media and fragmentation of audiences has increased the complexity of advertising and thereby increased the need for automation in ad buying, which we provide on our platform. In order to grow, we will need to continue to develop our platforms programmatic capabilities and advertising inventory. We believe that key opportunities include our ongoing global expansion, continuing development of our video (including CTV), audio and native ad inventory, and continuing development of the data usage, measurement and targeting capabilities provided by our platform. We believe that growth of the programmatic advertising market is important for our ability to grow our business. Adoption of programmatic advertising by advertisers allows us to acquire new clients and grow revenue from existing clients. Although our clients include some of the largest advertising agencies in the world, we believe there is significant room for us to expand further within these clients and gain a larger amount of their advertising spend through our platform. We also believe that the industry trends noted above will lead to advertisers adopting programmatic advertising through platforms such as ours. Similarly, the adoption of programmatic advertising by inventory owners and content providers allows us to expand the volume and type of advertising inventory that we present to our clients. For example, we have expanded our CTV, native and audio advertising offerings through our integrations with supply-side partners. We invest for long-term growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly in the foreseeable future as we invest in platform operations and technology and development to enhance our product features, including programmatic buying of CTV ad inventory, and in sales and marketing to acquire new clients and reinforce our relationships with existing clients. In addition, we expect to continue making investments in our infrastructure, including our information technology, financial and administrative systems and controls, to support our growing operations. We believe the markets outside of the United States, and in particular across Europe and Asia in markets such as the United Kingdom, Germany, France, China, Japan, India and Australia, offer opportunities for growth. However, such markets may also pose challenges related to compliance with local laws and regulations, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, uncertainty related to trade relations and a variety of additional risks. We intend to make additional investments in sales and marketing and product development to expand in international markets where we are making significant investments in our platform and growing our team. We believe that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth, although they may negatively impact profitability in the near term. Our business model has allowed us to grow significantly, and we believe that our operating leverage enables us to support future growth profitably. 15 Table of Contents Macroeconomic Uncertainty and COVID-19 Rising interest rates, inflation, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and geopolitical developments, as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence of variants and subvariants, have resulted, and may continue to result, in a global slowdown of economic activity, which may decrease demand for a broad variety of goods and services, including those provided by our clients, while also disrupting supply channels, sales channels and advertising and marketing activities for an unknown period of time until economic activity normalizes. As a result of the current uncertainty in economic activity, we are unable to predict the size and duration of the impact on our revenue and our results of operations. The extent of the impact of these macroeconomic factors on our operational and financial performance will depend on a variety of factors, and the duration and extent of geopolitical and global economic disruption and their respective impacts on our clients, partners, industry and employees, all of which are uncertain at this time and cannot be accurately predicted. See Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part II. Other Information for further discussion of the adverse impacts of the macroeconomic factors on our business. During the second half of 2022, many of our employees adopted a hybrid work schedule consisting of both in-person work and working from home, primarily beginning in September 2022. Additionally, we resumed travel and in-person events in accordance with applicable regional guidance, resulting in an increase in operating expenses in 2023 compared to 2022, before most travel and in-person events resumed. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 Compared with the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated results of operations for the periods presented. Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) (% of Revenue) (in thousands) (% of Revenue) Revenue $ 493,266 100 % $ 394,773 100 % Operating expenses: Platform operations 93,382 19 % 70,124 18 % Sales and marketing 112,466 23 % 85,038 22 % Technology and development 117,772 24 % 79,915 20 % General and administrative 131,969 27 % 130,892 33 % Total operating expenses 455,589 92 % 365,969 93 % Income from operations 37,677 8 % 28,804 7 % Total other income, net (19,323) (4) % (1,698) % Income before income taxes 57,000 12 % 30,502 8 % Provision for income taxes 17,648 4 % 14,633 4 % Net income $ 39,352 8 % $ 15,869 4 % Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) (% of Revenue) (in thousands) (% of Revenue) Revenue $ 1,340,323 100 % $ 1,087,058 100 % Operating expenses: Platform operations 264,903 20 % 201,504 19 % Sales and marketing 321,177 24 % 245,146 23 % Technology and development 309,790 23 % 235,397 22 % General and administrative 388,411 29 % 391,517 36 % Total operating expenses 1,284,281 96 % 1,073,564 99 % Income from operations 56,042 4 % 13,494 1 % Total other income, net (51,277) (4) % (1,756) % Income before income taxes 107,319 8 % 15,250 1 % Provision for income taxes 25,702 2 % 33,052 3 % Net income (loss) $ 81,617 6 % $ (17,802) (2) %_______________ Note: Percentages may not sum due to rounding. Revenue Revenue increased by $98 million, or 25%, and $253 million, or 23%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher gross spend in the current year on our platform, which was primarily driven by more advertisers and more campaigns executed by existing clients. Platform Operations Platform operations expense increased by $23 million, or 33%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to increases of $15 million in hosting costs and $7 million in personnel costs, which included a $2 million increase in stock-based compensation. The increase in hosting costs was primarily attributable to support related to the increased use of our platform by our clients and 17 Table of Contents by investment in new data centers to support our platform. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to headcount growth. The increase in stock-based compensation was primarily due to new equity grants. Platform operations expense increased by $63 million, or 31%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to increases of $42 million in hosting costs and $17 million in personnel costs. The increase in hosting costs was primarily attributable to support related to the increased use of our platform by our clients and by investment in new data centers to support our platform. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to headcount growth as well as return-to-office, travel and employee engagement costs, including in-person events impacted by headcount growth. We expect platform operations expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we continue to experience increased volumes of media impressions through our platform and hire additional personnel to support our growth. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense increased by $27 million, or 32%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $22 million in personnel costs, which included a $6 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $3 million increase in marketing costs and a $2 million increase in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to headcount growth to support our sales efforts and to continue to develop and maintain relationships with our clients; an increase in incentive compensation driven by headcount growth and gross spend growth; and return-to-office and travel. The increase in stock-based compensation was primarily due to new equity grants. The increase in marketing costs was primarily due to an increase in marketing campaigns, events, sponsorships and client engagement. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new leases for additional office space to support our future growth as well as return-to-office support expenses. Sales and marketing expense increased by $76 million, or 31%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $64 million in personnel costs, which included a $5 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $7 million increase in marketing costs and a $5 million increase in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to headcount growth to support our sales efforts and to continue to develop and maintain relationships with our clients; higher incentive compensation driven by headcount growth and gross spend growth; and return-to-office, travel and employee engagement costs, including in-person events impacted by headcount growth. The increase in marketing costs was primarily due to an increase in marketing campaigns, events, sponsorships and client engagement. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new leases for additional office space to support our future growth as well as return-to-office support expenses. The increase in stock-based compensation was primarily due to new equity grants, partially offset by the impact of stock price volatility on ESPP expense. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods, as we focus on increasing the adoption of our platform with existing and new clients and expanding our international business. Technology and Development Technology and development expense increased by $38 million, or 47%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $35 million in personnel costs, which included a $21 million increase in stock-based compensation, and a $3 million increase in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily attributable to headcount growth to maintain and support further development of our platform, as well as return-to-office and travel. The increase in stock-based compensation was due to $14 million from the cancellation of unvested equity awards in connection with David R. Pickles stepping down from his role as our former Chief Technology Officer (CTO), as well as new equity grants to other grantees. Refer to Note 8Stock-Based Compensation for further detail. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new leases for additional office space to support our future growth as well as return-to-office support expenses. Technology and development expense increased by $74 million, or 32%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $68 million in personnel costs, which included a $24 million increase in stock-based compensation, and a $6 million increase in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily attributable to headcount growth to maintain and support further development of our platform, as well as return-to-office, travel and employee engagement costs, including 18 Table of Contents in-person events impacted by headcount growth. The increase in stock-based compensation was due to new equity grants, partially offset by the impact of stock price volatility on ESPP expense. The increase in stock-based compensation expense also included $14 million from the cancellation of unvested equity awards in connection with the stepping down of our former CTO. Refer to Note 8Stock-Based Compensation for further detail. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new leases for additional office space to support our future growth as well as return-to-office support expenses. We expect technology and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in the development of our platform to support additional features and functions, increase the number of advertising and data inventory suppliers and support the increase in volume of advertising spending by our customers on our platform. We also intend to invest in technology to further automate our business processes. General and Administrative General and administrative expense increased by $1 million, or 1%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, primarily due to increases of $7 million in personnel costs, $4 million in administrative costs and $1 million in allocated facilities costs, partially offset by an $11 million decrease in stock-based compensation. The increase in personnel costs was primarily attributable to increased headcount to support our growth, an increase in bonus costs driven by revenue growth and an increase in return-to-office and travel costs. The increase in administrative costs was primarily driven by an increase in external professional fees. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new leases for additional office space to support our future growth as well as return-to-office support expenses. The decrease in stock-based compensation was primarily driven by an $18 million decrease in expense related to the CEO Performance Option driven by the graded-vesting attribution method, under which more expense is recognized earlier in the options life, partially offset by a $7 million increase in expense related to new equity grants. General and administrative expense decreased by $3 million, or 1%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022, primarily due to a $31 million decrease in stock-based compensation, partially offset by increases of $26 million in personnel costs and $2 million in allocated facilities costs. The decrease in stock-based compensation was primarily driven by a $41 million decrease in expense related to the CEO Performance Option driven by the graded-vesting attribution method, under which more expense is recognized earlier in the options life, as well as a $6 million decrease in ESPP expense driven by the impact of stock price volatility, partially offset by a $16 million increase in expense related to new equity grants. The increase in personnel costs was primarily attributable to increased headcount to support our growth, an increase in bonus costs driven by revenue growth, and an increase in return-to-office, travel and employee engagement costs, including in-person events impacted by headcount growth. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by new leases for additional office space to support our future growth as well as return-to-office support expenses. Excluding the impact of the CEO Performance Option, we expect general and administrative expenses to increase primarily due to continued investment in corporate infrastructure to support growth. Total Other Income, Net Total other income, net increased by $18 million and $50 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, as compared to total other income, net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher interest income on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments driven by rising interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes The U.S. federal statutory tax rate was 21% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The provision for income taxes increased by $3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher pre-tax profitability, partially offset by a lower impact attributable to nondeductible stock-based compensation. 19 Table of Contents The provision for income taxes decreased by $7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a lower impact attributable to nondeductible stock-based compensation coupled with higher tax benefits associated with employee stock-based awards. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2023, we had working capital of $1,867 million, which included $1,072 million in cash and cash equivalents, $82 million of which was held by our international subsidiaries, and $450 million in short-term investments in marketable securities. Additionally, we had $445 million available under our Amended Credit Facility (refer to the Credit Facilitysection below). For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we generated $507 million in cash flows from operating activities. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations, and our undrawn available balance under our Amended Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our share repurchase program. Further, we have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC (the Shelf Registration), which permits us to issue equity securities and equity-linked securities from time to time, subject to certain limitations. The Shelf Registration is intended to provide us with additional flexibility to access capital markets for general corporate purposes, subject to market conditions and our capital needs. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In the future, we may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked or debt-financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by incurring additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could be unfavorable to equity investors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if our operating performance during the next 12 months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. We are closely monitoring the effect that current macroeconomic factors may have on our working capital requirements. Credit Facility On June 15, 2021, we and a syndicate of banks, led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent, entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the Credit Facility).The Credit Facility consists of a $450 million revolving loan facility, with a $20 million sublimit for swingline borrowings and a $15 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Under certain circumstances, we have the right to increase the Credit Facility by an amount not to exceed $300 million. On December 17, 2021, we amended the Credit Facility to expand the process for issuing letters of credit and the related invoicing, particularly with respect to letters of credit not denominated in U.S. Dollars. On February 9, 2023, we further amended the Credit Facility (as amended, the Amended Credit Facility) to transition from a variable interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate to a variable interest rate based on the secured overnight financing rate (SOFR). As of September 30, 2023, we did not have an outstanding debt balance under the Amended Credit Facility. Availability under the Amended Credit Facility was $445 million as of September 30, 2023, which is net of outstanding letters of credit of $5 million. The Amended Credit Facility matures, and all outstanding amounts become due and payable, on June 15, 2026. As of September 30, 2023, we were in compliance with all covenants. For additional information regarding the Amended Credit Facility, refer to Note 6Debt. 20 Table of Contents Share Repurchase Program In February 2023, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program with authorization to purchase up to $700 million of our Class A common stock. The share repurchase program, which has no expiration date, is designed to help offset the impact of future share dilution from employee stock issuances. Repurchases under the program may be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, with the amount and timing of repurchases determined at our discretion, depending on market conditions and corporate needs. Open market repurchases are structured to occur in accordance with applicable federal securities laws, including within the pricing and volume requirements of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act. We may also, from time to time, enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans to facilitate repurchases of shares under this authorization. This program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of Class A common stock, and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the discretion of our board of directors. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, we repurchased and subsequently retired 1.2 million shares and 6.9 million shares, respectively, of our Class A common stock for aggregate repurchase amounts of $90 million and $427 million, respectively. The repurchase amounts for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 included immaterial amounts related to the 1% excise tax on net share repurchases as a result of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA). As of September 30, 2023, $273 million remained available and authorized for repurchases. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 507,202 $ 375,254 Net cash used in investing activities $ (50,542) $ (165,757) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (415,402) $ 31,005 Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by growth in our operations, increases or decreases in collections from our clients and related payments to our suppliers for advertising inventory and data. We typically pay suppliers in advance of collections from our clients. Our collection and payment cycles can vary from period to period. In addition, we expect seasonality to impact cash flows from operating activities on a sequential quarterly basis during the year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cash provided by operating activities of $507 million resulted primarily from net income adjusted for noncash items of $542 million and a net decrease in our operating assets and liabilities of $35 million. The net decrease in our operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $131 million increase in accounts receivable and a $37 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, partially offset by a $126 million increase in accounts payable and an $18 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was due to the timing and seasonality of cash receipts from clients. The decrease in operating lease liabilities was due primarily to rent payments. The increase in accounts payable was due to the timing and seasonality of payments to suppliers for the cost of advertising inventory, data and add-on features. The increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities is due to the timing of payment of personnel costs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, cash provided by operating activities of $375 million resulted primarily from net income adjusted for noncash items of $431 million and a net decrease in our operating assets and liabilities of $55 million. The net decrease in our operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $69 million decrease in accounts payable, a $36 million decrease in operating lease liabilities and a $19 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by a $43 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets and a $25 million decrease in accounts receivable. The decrease in accounts payable was due to seasonality and the timing of payments to suppliers. The decrease in operating lease liabilities was due primarily to rent payments. The decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities was due primarily to payments of taxes associated with stock-based awards, bonus payments and reduction of the liability related to the ESPP due to the purchase of shares in accordance with the plan. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to a decrease in the income tax receivable including the 21 Table of Contents receipt of an income tax refund, partially offset by current year estimated income tax payments. The decrease in accounts receivable was due to seasonality and the timing of cash receipts from clients. Investing Activities Our primary investing activities consist of investing in short-term marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment for the expansion of our new facilities in support of our expanding headcount as a result of our growth and capital expenditures to develop our software in support of enhancing our technology platform. As our business grows, our capital expenditures and our investment activity may increase. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we used $51 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $23 million of net purchases of short-term investments, $22 million to purchase property and equipment and $6 million of investments in capitalized software. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we used $166 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $125 million of net purchases of short-term investments, $36 million to purchase property and equipment and $5 million of investments in capitalized software. Financing Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we used $415 million of cash in financing activities, consisting of $427 million of cash paid for repurchases of our Class A common stock and $55 million of taxes paid for restricted stock award settlements, partially offset by $45 million of proceeds from stock option exercises and $21 million of proceeds from our ESPP. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, cash provided by financing activities of $31 million was primarily due to $43 million of proceeds from stock option exercises and $26 million of proceeds from our ESPP, partially offset by $37 million of taxes paid for restricted stock award settlements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any relationships with other entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements at September 30, 2023 other than the indemnification agreements described below. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of our non-cancelable operating leases for our various office facilities and other contractual commitments consisting of obligations to our hosting services providers, marketing contracts and providers of software as a service. In certain cases, the terms of the lease agreements provide for rental payments on a graduated basis. The following table summarizes our non-cancelable contractual obligations at September 30, 2023 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Remainder of 2023 2024 and Thereafter Total Operating lease commitments $ 18,685 $ 251,821 $ 270,506 Other contractual commitments 48,895 388,383 437,278 Total $ 67,580 $ 640,204 $ 707,784 In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements in which we may agree to indemnify clients, suppliers, vendors, lessors, business partners, lenders, stockholders and other parties with respect to certain matters, including losses resulting from claims of intellectual property infringement, damages to property or persons, business losses or other liabilities. Generally, these indemnity and defense obligations relate to our own business operations, obligations and acts or omissions. However, under some circumstances, we agree to indemnify and defend contract counterparties against losses resulting from their own business operations, obligations and acts or omissions, or the 22 Table of Contents business operations, obligations and acts or omissions of third parties. These indemnity provisions generally survive termination or expiration of the agreements in which they appear. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors, executive officers and other officers that will require us to indemnify them against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers or employees. In the ordinary course of business, demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements, but we are not aware of any claims that could have a material effect on our balance sheet, statement of operations or statement of cash flows. Accordingly, no amounts for any obligation have been recorded at September 30, 2023. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with the evaluation of revenue recognition criteria, including the determination of revenue recognition as net versus gross in our revenue arrangements, stock-based compensation expense and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements None.