Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Management's discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations is based on the Company's financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, if any exist. The Company evaluates its estimates on an on-going basis. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values and disclosure of amounts recorded or disclosed in the financial statements of the Company. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our audited financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of any uncertainty articulated in Item 1. - 7 - FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Management's Discussion and Analysis and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as current expectations and assumptions. From time to time, the Company may publish forward-looking statements, including those that are contained in this report, relating to such matters as anticipated financial performance, business prospects, technological developments, new products, research and development activities and similar matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety of factors could cause the Company's actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company's business include, but are not limited to, its ability to maintain sufficient working capital, adverse changes in the economy, the ability to attract and maintain key personnel, its ability to identify or complete an acceptable merger or acquisition, and future results related to acquisition, merger or investment activities. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, including those set forth elsewhere in this report. The Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. We intend to seek new business opportunities. As we have only limited cash resources, our ability to complete any acquisition or investment opportunities we may identify will depend on our ability to raise additional financing, as to which there can be no assurance. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify, complete or integrate any future acquisition or investment, or that acquisitions or investments, if completed, will contribute favorably to our operations and future financial condition. ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $22,436 compared to $21,445 during 2016. The usage of cash was attributable to the net loss, which in turn resulted from general and administrative expenses. The principal items contributing to the usage of $22,436 in 2017 were a loss of $29,151, with an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, offset by accrued interest on the loans from stockholder and affiliate. Financing activities provided cash flows of $40,000 via the issuance of a promissory note in 2016 with no financing activities occurring in 2017 . The Company is now a shell corporation. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities. The Company continuously is evaluating the prospects for an acceptable merger or acquisition, but the likelihood and timing of such merger or acquisition cannot be estimated with any reasonable certainty. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in completing such a transaction or be able to maintain sufficient liquidity over a period of time that will allow it to carry out this action, in which case the Company might be forced to dissolve. - 8 - RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Revenues and Gross Profit Revenues and gross profit for 2017 and 2016 were zero for both years, as all operations were discontinued as of September 30, 2007. General and Administrative General and administrative ("G&A") expenses primarily consist of legal, accounting and other professional services. G&A expenses decreased from approximately $23,115 in 2016 to approximately $19,901 in 2017. Interest Expense Interest expense increased from $6,661 in 2016 to $9,000 in 2017 due to the additional loan from shareholder and affiliate in 2016, OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS None.