MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS March 31, 2019 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Managements Discussion and Analysis and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as current expectations and assumptions. From time to time, the Company may publish forward-looking statements, including those that are contained in this report, relating to such matters as anticipated financial performance, business prospects, technological developments, new products, research and development activities and similar matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety of factors could cause the Companys actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Companys forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Companys business include, but are not limited to, its ability to maintain sufficient working capital, adverse changes in the economy, the ability to attract and maintain key personnel, its ability to identify or complete an acceptable merger or acquisition, and future results related to acquisition, merger or investment activities. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, including those set forth elsewhere in this report. The Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND COMMENTS RELATED TO OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes or developments in the Companys evaluation of the accounting estimates and the underlying assumptions or methodologies that it believes to be Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates as disclosed in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. Managements Discussion included in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes discussion of various factors and items related to the Companys results of operations and liquidity. There have been no other significant changes in most of the factors discussed in the Form 10-K and many of the items discussed in the Form 10-K are relevant to 2019 operations; thus the reader of this report should read Managements Discussion included in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were zero, since all operations were discontinued as of September 30, 2007. General and Administrative General and administrative (G&A) expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $2,626 and were $2,986, for the comparable period in 2018. The Company expects a comparable amount of G&A expenses going forward. 10 Interest Expense The Company recognized interest expense related to the loans from stockholder and affiliate in the amount of $2,588 and $2,219 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. Interest expense was previously reported as a component of general and administrative expenses, but has been reclassified into a separate line item on the accompanying statements of operations. The Company expects interest expense to increase going forward as a result of the 2019 Note. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company has undertaken steps to reduce its expenses and improve the Companys liquidity, including the previous sale and discontinuance of all operations. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. However, the Company currently has no operating activities or source of revenue. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to successfully complete a merger or acquisition or be able to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue to seek a merger or acquisition, in which case the Company might be forced to liquidate or seek protection under the Federal bankruptcy statutes, or both. Net cash of $3,904 was used by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to no cash expended in the comparable period of 2018. The fluctuation was attributable to a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.