Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the words believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, may, will, potential, projects, predicts, continue, or should, or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology. There can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Such statements include, but are not limited to, any statements relating to our ability to consummate any acquisition or other business combination and any other statements that are not statements of current or historical facts. These statements are based on managements current expectations, but actual results may differ materially due to various factors, including, but not limited to: the benefits of the business combination; our success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our officers, key employees or directors following the business combination; changes in BARKs strategy, future operations, expansion plans and opportunities, financial position, estimated revenues and losses, projected costs, prospects and plans, capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; the implementation, market acceptance and success of BARKs business model and its ability to scale in a cost-effective manner; BARKs significant reliance on revenue from customers purchasing subscription-based products, such as BarkBox and Super Chewer, and its ability to successfully expand its offerings; BARKs short history operating at its current scale in a rapidly evolving industry; the effectiveness and efficiency of BARKs marketing and cross-selling efforts; BARKs ability to compete in the highly competitive dog products and services retail industry; BARKs ability to maintain and grow its strong brand and reputation; adverse changes in BARKs shipping arrangements or any interruptions in shipping; the ability to maintain effective controls over disclosure and financial reporting that enable BARK to comply with regulations and produce accurate financial statements; the effects of economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends on BARKs business and consumer spending; the future financial performance of the combined company following the business combination; failure to maintain the listing on, or the delisting of our securities from, NYSE; public securities potential liquidity and trading; lack of a market for our securities; use of our cash and cash equivalents; and our financial performance. The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Future developments affecting us may not be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) and other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under the heading Risk Factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These risks and others described under Risk Factors may not be exhaustive. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. We caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that our actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and developments in the industry in which we operate may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. In addition, even if our results or operations, financial condition and liquidity, and developments in the industry in which we operate are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods. Information contained on or accessible through BARKs websites is not a part of this annual report, and the inclusion of BARKs website addresses in this annual report is an inactive textual reference only. i Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 50 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 51 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 51 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52