Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This section includes several forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including, but not limited to, statements about our plans, strategies, adequacy of resources and future financial results (such as revenue, gross profit, operating profit, cash flow), are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by words like anticipates, believes, expects, may, will, can, could, should, intends, project, predict, plans, estimates, goal, target, possible, potential, would, seek, and similar references to future periods. These statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. The uncertainties surrounding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to make forward looking assumptions and estimates very volatile. Moreover, the contradictory advice between the federal and state governments regarding such matters as reopening schools, social distancing and mask requirements make it even more difficult to predict the timing of a return to pre-pandemic levels, particularly in the media production space. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us and our clients; our ability to access the capital markets by pursuing additional debt and equity financing to fund our business plan and expenses on terms acceptable to the Vivos Shareholders or at all; negative outcome of pending and future claims and litigation and our ability to comply with our contractual covenants, including in respect of our debt; potential loss of clients and possible rejection of our business model and/or sales methods; weakness in general economic conditions and levels of capital spending by customers in the industries we serve; weakness or volatility in the financial and capital markets, which may result in the postponement or cancellation of our customers projects or the inability of our customers to pay our fees; delays or reductions in U.S. government spending; credit risks associated with our customers; competitive market pressures; the availability and cost of qualified labor; our level of success in attracting, training and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; changes in tax laws and other government regulations, including the impact of health care reform laws and regulations; the possibility of incurring liability for our business activities, including, but not limited to, the activities of our temporary employees; our performance on customer contracts; and government policies, legislation or judicial decisions adverse to our businesses. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We recommend readers to carefully review the entirety of this Quarterly Report, the Risk Factors in Item 1A of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and the other reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), particularly our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, our expectations regarding the future performance of our business and the other non-historical statements in the discussion and analysis are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 with the SEC. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should read the following discussion together with our financial statements and related notes thereto and other financial information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 21 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND COMMENTS RELATED TO OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these unaudited consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes or developments in the Companys evaluation of the accounting estimates and the underlying assumptions or methodologies that it believes to be Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates as disclosed in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Managements Discussion included in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes discussion of various factors and items related to the Companys results of operations and liquidity. There have been no other significant changes in most of the factors discussed in the Form 10-K and many of the items discussed in the Form 10-K are relevant to 2020 operations; thus the reader of this report should read Managements Discussion included in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was reported to have surfaced in Wuhan, China. In January 2020, this coronavirus spread to other countries, including the United States, and efforts to contain the spread of this coronavirus intensified. On March 30, 2020, Maryland governor Larry Hogan issued a stay at home order which resulted in the Company moving to a work from home model. We reacted as soon as March 20, 2020 when we instituted furloughs and cut administrative pay by 10% and executive pay by 15%. Other non-essential costs were reduced or eliminated Whereas we were prepared for this situation and were able to adapt quickly, our business began to suffer from companies and governors in the other 49 states simultaneously or subsequently issuing similar orders. Much of our billable workforce began working from home dependent on client instructions. Some IT staffing clients in the healthcare space were still able to have employees and contractors come to their facilities due to essential service exceptions. However, we still began to observe stronger negative impact in the media space as our client partners demand began to wane in all segments. In April and May combined we saw a 49% decline in revenue when compared to same periods in 2019. On April 29, 2020 we were formally approved by TBK bank and the SBA for Payroll Protection (PPP) lending. With the board approving the loan provisions in the loan documents presented to us on the same day, May 4th, the proceeds totaling $5,216 were then released on May 5, 2020. As of June 30, 2020, we had deployed $2.390 in PPP funds, and had $2.826 remaining in PPP funds. The Company believes that 99% of the PPP funds deployed have been for eligible payroll per the SBA regulations governing fund eligibility for fund use and forgiveness. Because our administrative staff continued to be productive using our web-based applications from the safety of their homes, management decided to terminate its lease at 22 Baltimore Road with Vivos Real Estate, affording Vivos Real Estate 30 days of notice prior to the effective termination date of April 30, 2020. Because our lease was on a month to month basis, there was no penalty or negative consequences associated with this action. We do not believe our work from home protocols have materially adversely impacted our internal controls, financial reporting systems or our operations. During this period, our critical priorities continue to be the health and safety of our team members, field talent, candidates and client partners. 22 The extent to which the coronavirus impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, circumstances permitting people to return to work, among others. We expect that the social distancing measures, the reduced operational status of our client partners, reductions in production at certain client partners facilities, and general business uncertainty will continue to significantly effect demand in all our segments throughout the remainder of 2020, and possibly beyond. Revenues Revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $5,197, a decrease of $4,420 or 46 %, due to reduced demand for services resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. EOR revenue dropped 56% and Video and Multimedia production declined by 44%, as clients curtailed studio and on-site productions due mostly to stay at home / shelter in place state orders. Staffing Revenues however increased 136% due to IQS IT staffing which was not in place a year ago. IQS staffing revenues when compared to its pre-acquisition records as a stand-alone company, declined in the second quarter by $283 from $926 to $643, or 30.5% Revenue for the first two quarters ending June 30, 2020, totaled $13,998 was 22% off the pace of a year ago when it was $17,917 due to the causes stated above which began in mid-March 2020. Cost of Revenue / Gross Profit The decrease in gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 was $346 or a 32% decrease in gross profit compared to a year ago. IQS contribution to gross profit was at $216 which represents 29.9% of the Companys 2 nd quarter gross profit. IQSs margin at approximately 34% led the improvement in overall gross margin to 13.9%, an improvement over IQSs 2019s second quarter gross margin of 11.1% which was before the acquisition of IQS. IQS gross margin improvement from 31% gross margin in the same period in 2019 to 34%, can mostly be attributed to Maslows benefit structure that is less costly. Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2020, of $1,755 was not nearly as pronounced at $151 or 7.9% less than it was a year ago at $1,906. The gross profit decline was not as steep due to IQS which had strong YTD margins of 32% while representing a much higher percentage of the overall business due to the COVID-19 decline levels suffered by the EOR segment. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2020 were $1,240 as compared to $662 in 2019. The increase is due to costs associated with being a public company and higher legal costs which totaled approximately $343 and $69 respectively or $412 of the of the $578 difference. The other major SG&A increase of $168 comes from IQS administrative salaries and other IQS operating costs such as rent. For the six months ending June 30, 2020, SG&A expenses of $2,352 were $1,036 greater than 2019 with an identical paradigm to the quarter with cost associated with being a public company and higher legal costs being the drivers, totaling approximately $674 and $143 respectively for a total of $817 of the $1,036 difference. The remaining $219 increase can be attributed to in incremental IQS administrative salaries and other costs offset by a reduction in other general and administrative spending. 23 Interest Expense The Company recognized interest expense in the amount of $114 during the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to $91 in 2019. The decrease was attributable to the $850 in convertible notes being carried and offset by a large reduction in use of factoring which was due to the reduction of revenues and the PPP funds which do not necessitate immediate borrowing for working capital. For the six months ending June 30, 2020, interest expense increased to $253 compared with $174 in 2019 primarily due to the $850 in convertible notes the Company took on mostly in the third quarter of 2019. Our factoring costs decreased year over year as the necessity to factor invoices was significantly diminished after receipt of the PPP funds. Prior to receipt of the PPP funds, our average cash balance was $395, while employing 85-90% of factoring capabilities. Use of PPP funds for payroll and rent enabled cash reserves to be fortified as our average cash improved to $458 from May 1 through July 6, 2020. Net Income (Loss) The Company incurred a net loss in the quarter ending June 30, 2020 of $324 compared to net profit in the same period 2019 of $286. The $346 decrease in gross profit coupled with corporate costs much of which are public company related ($343, see G&A) totaling $459 exceed the $599 variance by $203 where the Company was able to reduce costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, the net loss was $561 versus a profit of 362 in the same period in 2019. The $923 variance can be attributed less to the $151 reduction in gross profit and more to the $842 in additional corporate costs, $673 of which were public company related and $142 for legal fees. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations via traditional accounts receivable activities and via borrowings under our Factoring Facility (up to 93%) with Triumph and receivables enabling access to the 7% unfactored portion. Because certain large clients have changed their payment practices announcing 60 and 90 day terms amounting to a unilateral extension to contractual terms by 30-60 days, we can be adversely impacted since Triumph, and most other factoring institutions no longer provide credit after an account obligor pays 30 or more days from their contractual terms. Our primary use of cash are for payments to field talent, corporate and staff employees, related payroll liabilities, operating expenses, public company costs, including but not limited to general and professional liability and directors and officers liability insurance premiums, legal fees, filing fees, auditor and accounting fees, stock transfer services, and board compensation; followed by cash factoring and other borrowing interest; cash taxes; and debt servicing payments. The Company expected to have promissory note receivable for $3,000 repaid by Naveen Doki at the end of 2019. In the first quarter, the Company continued to pursue repayment as the impact of not having that cash returned to the Company coupled with approximately $900 more a year in costs associated with being a public company and the inability to tap the capital markets due to not having any available shares, resulted in cash challenges. Also, as described in Note 6 to the Financial Statements above, Vivos Holdings LLC has defaulted its secured promissory note that would have paid $10 per month to Company. In June, the Company made required repayments of principal and interest of approximately $140 pursuant to the convertible notes described in Note 4 above. Payments under the remaining outstanding notes with an aggregate value of approximately $952 will be made over a 4-month period, including $588 having been paid by August 3rd, as these notes reach maturity. 24 In March 2020, a national, lockdown began to unfold due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This resulted in a significant loss of business starting the last week of March 2020, resulting in a reduction of billing by approximately 51% in the combined months of April and May 2020. On May 5, 2020, MMG received the PPP Loan. Subsequently, the Paycheck Protection Flexibility Act, was passed by Congress and signed by the President on June 3, 2020 which among other changes and provisions allowed for the funds to be employed over a 24-week period versus 8. By utilizing these funds for their intended purpose of payroll, with forgiveness potential over the first 24 weeks, the Company has been able to free up cash to pay other expenses and obligations, while also improving our non-PPP working capital. As stated above under Interest, use of PPP funds for payroll and rent enabled cash reserves to be fortified to average (Non PPP) working capital of $458 from May 1 through July 6, 2020, from a previous 4 month average of $395K. Cash employed to repay the convertible notes (see Note 4) in the second quarter totaled $140 and will require disbursement in the third quarter of $700, and a fourth quarter principal and interest payments of $112. Although the outlay of the $812 in the third and early fourth quarter will have a substantial impact on cash flows, the Company expects to have sufficient working capital after making these payments. Net cash provided by operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $2,054 compared to $1,395 in the comparable period of 2019. The change was attributable to an increase in legal expenses and other costs associated with being a public company. In February 2020, Maslow took out a $250 6-month term loan from Triumph at 10% APR, in order to meet its cash obligations. In early March 2020, the loan principal was increased by $75 with the remaining term extended 26 weeks to September 2020. On April 7, 2020, in the face of the COVID 19 lockdown, Triumph offered a 2-month payment holiday and to extend the note payment to February 2021.