MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS June 30, 2015 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Management's Discussion and Analysis and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as current expectations and assumptions. From time to time, the Company may publish forward-looking statements, including those that are contained in this report, relating to such matters as anticipated financial performance, business prospects, technological developments, new products, research and development activities and similar matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety of factors could cause the Company's actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company's business include, but are not limited to, its ability to maintain sufficient working capital, adverse changes in the economy, the ability to attract and maintain key personnel, its ability to identify or complete an acceptable merger or acquisition, and future results related to acquisition, merger or investment activities. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, including those set forth elsewhere in this report. The Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements . CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND COMMENTS RELATED TO OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes or developments in the Company's evaluation of the accounting estimates and the underlying assumptions or methodologies that it believes to be Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates as disclosed in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Management's Discussion included in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes discussion of various factors and items related to the Company's results of operations and liquidity. There have been no other significant changes in most of the factors discussed in the Form 10-K and many of the items discussed in the Form 10-K are relevant to 2015 operations; thus the reader of this report should read Management's Discussion included in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues Revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 were zero, since all operations were discontinued as of September 30, 2007. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 were $6,083 and $ 11,140, respectively, as compared to $13,244 and $23,132 in the comparable periods in 2014. The decrease is due to lower legal expenses in 2015 as compared to 2014. - 9 - Interest Expense The Company recognized interest expense in the amount of $1,267 and $2,479 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively, related to the loan from shareholder. The interest expense in the prior year was only $333 as the loan was made in June 2014. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company has undertaken steps to reduce its expenses and improve the Company's liquidity, including the previous sale and discontinuance of all operations. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. However, the Company currently has no operating activities. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to successfully complete a merger or acquisition or be able to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue to seek a merger or acquisition, in which case the Company might be forced to liquidate or seek protection under the Federal bankruptcy statutes, or both. Net cash used by operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $17,841 compared to $ 55,992 in the comparable period of 2014. The decrease was attributable to a lower net loss and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities during the six months ended June 30, 2015. As previously reported, on January 15, 2014, the Company issued 3,401,360 shares of unregistered common stock in a private placement to Lone Star Value Investors, LP ("Lone Star Value"), an entity controlled by a former director and officer of the Company, for cash proceeds of $50,000 and on June 6, 2014, Lone Star Value issued a promissory note to the Company in the principal amount of $50,000 (the "Note"). Under the terms of the Note, interest on the outstanding principal amount accrues at a rate of 10% per annum and all amounts outstanding under the Note are due and payable on or before June 30, 2019. The proceeds of the private placement and Note are used to assist in funding the Company's operating expenses.