Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11, 2020. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. See the discussion under Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and particularly in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full calendar year or any other period. Overview We are the worlds largest online marketplace for authenticated, consigned luxury goods. We are revolutionizing luxury resale by providing an end-to-end service that unlocks supply from consignors and creates a trusted, curated online marketplace for buyers globally. Over the past nine years, we have cultivated a loyal and engaged consignor and buyer base through continuous investment in our technology platform, logistics infrastructure and people. We aggregate and curate unique, pre-owned luxury supply that is exclusive to The RealReal across multiple categories, including womens, mens, kids, jewelry and watches, and home and art. We have built a vibrant online marketplace that we believe expands the overall luxury market, promotes the recirculation of luxury goods and contributes to a more sustainable world. We have transformed the luxury consignment experience by removing the friction and pain points inherent in the traditional consignment model. For consignors, we provide White Glove in-home consultation and pickup, drop off at one of our ten luxury consignment offices (LCOs) four of which are located in our retail stores, or complimentary shipping directly to our merchandising and fulfillment facilities. We leverage our proprietary transactional database and market insights to deliver optimal pricing and rapid sell-through. For buyers, we offer highly coveted and exclusive authenticated pre-owned luxury goods at attractive values, as well as a high-quality experience befitting the products we offer. Our online marketplace is powered by our proprietary technology platform, including consumer facing applications and purpose-built software that supports our complex, individual stock keeping unit (single-SKU) inventory model and merchandising operations. The substantial majority of our revenue is generated by consignment sales. We also generate revenue from other services and direct sales. Consignment and service revenue. When we sell goods through our online marketplace on behalf of our consignors, we retain a percentage of the proceeds, which we refer to as our take rate. Take rates vary depending on the total value of goods sold through our online marketplace on behalf of a particular consignor as well as the category and price point of the items. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 36.2% and 35.3%, respectively. Additionally, we earn revenue from shipping fees and from our subscription program, First Look , in which we offer buyers early access to the items we sell in exchange for a monthly fee. Direct revenue. In certain cases, such as when we accept out of policy returns from buyers, we take ownership of goods and retain 100% of the proceeds when the goods subsequently resell through our online marketplace. We generate revenue from orders processed through our website, mobile app, LCOs, and four retail stores located in New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. Our omni-channel experience enables buyers to purchase anytime and anywhere. We have a global base of more than 16.5 million members as of March 31, 2020. We count as a member any user who has registered an email address on our website or downloaded our mobile app, thereby agreeing to our terms of service. Through March 31, 2020, we have cumulatively paid approximately $1.5 billion in commissions to our consignors. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our GMV was $257.6 million and $224.1 million, respectively, representing a growth rate of 15%. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our total revenue was $78.2 million and $70.6 million, respectively, representing a growth rate of 11%. In the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, our gross profit was $49.2 million and $42.4 million, respectively, representing a growth rate of 16%. Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was first identified, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization categorized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business operations and results of operations for the first quarter of 2020 as described in more detail under Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 21 2019 below. To help control the spread of the virus and protect the health and safety of our employees and customers, we began modifying operating models and hours of our fulfillment facilities , enhancing our safety and cleaning protocols, and closing retail stores and luxury consignment offices temporarily. We enforced social d istancing in our fulfillment facilitie s by staggering shifts and reducing staff onsite resulting in operations significantly below full capacity . I n March 2020, GMV was negatively impacted by the limited operations in our fulfillment facilities . In March 2020 , when many shelter-in-place directives went into effect, and continuing through mid-April 2020 , GMV declined approximately 40%-45% year over year. During the last two weeks of April 2020 , GMV trends have improved modestly. We also temporarily suspend ed all in-person White Glove consignment appointments in response to governmental requirements for shelter - in - place and social distancing. We expect the evolving COVID-19 pandemic to continue to have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and results of operations, including our net revenues, earnings and cash flows, for at least the balance of 2020, including as a result of further spread of the disease, disruption in our fulfillment centers , temporary closures of retail stores and luxury consignment offices , decreased productivity due to shelter-in-place orders, changes in customer behaviors, and a slowdown in the U.S. economy and uncertain global economic outlook. The continuation of the outbreak may cause prolonged periods of store closures and modified operating schedules. It may result in changes in customer behaviors, including a potential reduction in consumer discretionary spending on our e-c ommerce site and in our retail stores. Travel and border closures do not significantly affect our business as we operate a U.S. focused marketplace. We are focused on navigating these recent challenges presented by COVID-19 by implementing measures to realign our cost structure and preserve liquidity including reduced marketing investments, deferring certain capital investments, renegotiating certain vendor contracts, and reducing payroll costs, including through headcount reductions and employee furloughs. We have taken actions to help ensure that our business will continue uninterrupted through the COVID-19 pandemic, including enforcing social distancing in our fulfillment centers, completing consignment appointments virtually, implementing curbside pick-up of products from our consignors, and implementing steps to enable employees to work remotely. The impact of these actions on our workforce are difficult to assess. However, we do not believe that these remote work arrangements have adversely affected our ability to maintain our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure