Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operatio ns. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11, 2020. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. See the discussion under Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and particularly in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full calendar year or any other period. Overview We are the worlds largest online marketplace for authenticated, consigned luxury goods. We are revolutionizing luxury resale by providing an end-to-end service that unlocks supply from consignors and creates a trusted, curated online marketplace for buyers globally. Over the past nine years, we have cultivated a loyal and engaged consignor and buyer base through continuous investment in our technology platform, logistics infrastructure and people. We aggregate and curate unique, pre-owned luxury supply that is exclusive to The RealReal across multiple categories, including womens, mens, kids, jewelry and watches, and home and art. We have built a vibrant online marketplace that we believe expands the overall luxury market, promotes the recirculation of luxury goods and contributes to a more sustainable world. We have transformed the luxury consignment experience by removing the friction and pain points inherent in the traditional consignment model. For consignors, we provide White Glove in-home consultation and pickup, drop off at one of our ten luxury consignment offices (LCOs) four of which are located in our retail stores, or complimentary shipping directly to our merchandising and fulfillment facilities. We leverage our proprietary transactional database and market insights to deliver optimal pricing and rapid sell-through. For buyers, we offer highly coveted and exclusive authenticated pre-owned luxury goods at attractive values, as well as a high-quality experience befitting the products we offer. Our online marketplace is powered by our proprietary technology platform, including consumer facing applications and purpose-built software that supports our complex, individual stock keeping unit (single-SKU) inventory model and merchandising operations. The substantial majority of our revenue is generated by consignment sales. We also generate revenue from other services and direct sales. Consignment and service revenue. When we sell goods through our online marketplace on behalf of our consignors, we retain a percentage of the proceeds, which we refer to as our take rate. Take rates vary depending on the total value of goods sold through our online marketplace on behalf of a particular consignor as well as the category and price point of the items. In the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 36.0% and 36.6%, respectively. In the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 36.1% and 36.0%, respectively. Additionally, we earn revenue from shipping fees and from our subscription program, First Look , in which we offer buyers early access to the items we sell in exchange for a monthly fee. Direct revenue. In certain cases, such as when we accept out of policy returns from buyers, we take ownership of goods and retain 100% of the proceeds when the goods subsequently resell through our online marketplace. We generate revenue from orders processed through our website, mobile app, LCOs, and four retail stores located in New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. Our omni-channel experience enables buyers to purchase anytime and anywhere. We have a global base of more than 17.8 million members as of June 30, 2020. We count as a member any user who has registered an email address on our website or downloaded our mobile app, thereby agreeing to our terms of service. Our gross merchandise value (GMV) decreased by 20% to $182.8 million from $228.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our GMV decreased by 3% to $440.4 million from $452.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our total revenue decreased by 21% to $57.4 million from $72.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our total revenue decreased by 5% to $135.6 million and $142.8 million in the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, our gross profit was $35.8 million and $46.1 million, respectively, representing a decrease of 22%. In the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, our gross profit was $85.0 million and $88.4 million, respectively, representing a decrease of 4%. See Impact of COVID-19 on our Business below. 26 Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was first identified, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization categorized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business operations and results of operations for the first half of 2020 as described in more detail under Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 below. To help control the spread of the virus and protect the health and safety of our employees and customers, we modified operating models and hours of our fulfillment facilities, enhanced our safety and cleaning protocols, and suspended all in-person White Glove consignment appointments. Additionally, we temporarily closed retail stores and luxury consignment offices during most of the three months ended June 30, 2020. We enforced social distancing in our fulfillment facilities by staggering shifts and reducing staff onsite resulting in operations below full capacity . As of the date of this filing, our four fulfillment facilities , luxury consignment offices and four retail stores are all open, adjusting for the local and state pandemic guidance and orders. GMV was negatively impacted in the first half of the year due to adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. In March 2020, when many shelter-in-place directives went into effect, and continuing through mid-April 2020, GMV declined approximately 40%-45% year over year. Since then, GMV trends have improved significantly. GMV in May 2020 declined approximately 19% year over year, and GMV in June 2020 declined approximately 8% year over year. Our GMV recovery prompted us to begin reinvesting in growth earlier than previously expected. We recalled a substantial portion of our furloughed employees, increased our marketing investments and resumed hiring in our technology teams during the three months ended June 30, 2020. We expect the evolving COVID-19 pandemic to continue to have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and results of operations, including our net revenues, earnings and cash flows, for at least the balance of 2020, including as a result of potential further spread of the disease, disruption in our fulfillment centers , further temporary closures of retail stores and luxury consignment offices, disruption to our supply acquisition, decreased productivity due to shelter-in-place orders, changes in buyer and consignor behaviors, and a slowdown in the U.S. economy and uncertain global economic outlook. It may result in changes in customer behaviors, including a potential reduction in consumer discretionary spending on our e-c ommerce site and in our retail stores. Travel and border closures do not significantly affect our business as we operate a U.S. focused marketplace. While we have implemented cost saving measures to address the challenges from the COVID-19 pandemic , we began to strategically reinvest in growth. However, we continue to monitor opportunities to strengthen our financial flexibility and preserve liquidity including deferring certain capital investments, renegotiating certain vendor contracts, and reducing payroll costs. In June 2020, as a preemptive measure to further strengthen our balance sheet, we issued $172.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 3% convertible senior notes due 2025. We have taken actions to help ensure that our business will continue uninterrupted through the COVID-19 pandemic, including enforcing social distancing in our fulfillment centers, completing consignment appointments virtually, implementing curbside pick-up of products from our consignors, and implementing steps to enable employees to work remotely. The impact of these actions on our workforce are difficult to assess. However, we do not believe that these remote work arrangements have adversely affected our ability to maintain our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure