Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources (the DNJ Action). On October 30, 2018, Credit Cash filed a motion to intervene in an action pending in New York State, Monroe County, filed by HCRN and LE Finance, LLC against the Parties and other defendants (NY State Action). On December 10, 2018 the Parties entered into a settlement agreement for the purpose of settling certain claims related to the DNJ Action only. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, certain repayment terms were agreed upon between Credit Cash and the Parties, but Credit Cash did not relinquish the right to pursue any claims related to the NY State Action, nor to pursue any remedies against any of the parties in relation to the November 15, 2017 agreement. Because the Parties acknowledged and agreed, that the Credit Cash relationship benefitted Parties other than Maslow, certain of the Parties and their related parties, executed and delivered to the Company that certain Agreement for the Contingent Liquidation of the Common Stock of Maslow Media Group, Inc., dated as of October 28, 2019 (the Liquidation Agreement). Pursuant to the Liquidation Agreement the parties thereto pledged shares of Company Common Stock to Maslow to be used to obtain releases from the Lenders defined therein, including Credit Cash and its affiliates. The Liquidation Agreement permits Maslow to either transfer the shares to the Lenders in satisfaction of the outstanding obligations or to arrange for the sale of the shares and using the cash to satisfy such obligations. On October 9, 2018, Maslow Media Group, Inc. was named as a defendant in an Affidavit of Confession of Judgment filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York in relation to a case brought by Hop Capital, which the defendants collectively agree to pay a sum of $400 to Hop Capital. Maslow Media Group, Inc. is named as one defendant among six other defendants, all of which are entities related to Vivos. The claim brought by Hop Capital against the defendants in this case is in relation to a Merchant Agreement dated October 4, 2018; an agreement to which Maslow Media Group, Inc. was not a party. As such, Maslow Media Group, Inc. contends that being named in the Affidavit of Confession of Judgment as a defendant was made in error and is currently seeking to have its name removed from Affidavit of Confession of Judgment as a defendant. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE Not applicable. 27 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET INFORMATION AND HOLDERS The Companys common stock trades in the over-the-counter market under the symbol RLBY. The high and low sale prices for 2018 and 2019 are set forth below. High and Low price is based on last trading day of quarter. First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 2018 High $ .0300 $ .0350 $ .0500 $ .0275 Low $ .0300 $ .0350 $ .0500 $ .0275 2019 High $ .3100 $ .3600 $ .1700 $ .2900 Low $ .3100 $ .3600 $ .1410 $ .2200 The Company paid no cash dividends in 2018 or 2019. As of April 28, 2020, the last reported sales price for Company Common Stock was $ .124 per share. As of April 28, 2020, there were 493 holders of record of Company Common Stock. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS None RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES None SHARE REPURCHASES None ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following tables set forth our summary consolidated historical financial data. You should read the information set forth below in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated historical financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statement of operations data for the fiscal years ended 2019 and 2018 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 set forth below are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 28 December 31 Balance Sheet Data: 2019 2018 Working capital $ 784 $ 1,783 Total assets $ 14,276 $ 9,483 Total outstanding borrowings, net $ 8,188 $ 4,947 Total other long-term liabilities $ 1,745 $ 344 Stockholders equity $ 2,227 $ 1,472 December 31 Statement of Operation Data: 2019 2018 Revenues $ 38,444 $ 37,638 Gross profit $ 4,069 $ 3,864 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 2,985 $ 2,807 Operating income $ 1,084 $ 1,057 Interest income $ 68 $ 80 Interest expense $ (438 ) $ (328 ) Other expense $ (206 ) $ (241 ) Income before income taxes $ 508 $ 568 Income tax expense $ (156 ) $ (182 ) Consolidated net income $ 352 $ 386 Non-consolidated interest in consolidated affiliates $ (157 ) $ - Net income (loss) $ 195 $ 386 December 31 Net Income (Loss) Per Share: 2019 2018 Net income (loss) per share basic $ - $ - Net income (loss) per share - diluted $ - $ - Weighted average shares outstanding basic 300,000,000 282,000,000 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 300,000,000 282,000,000 December 31 Other Financial Data: 2019 2018 OIBITDA (1) $ 1,348 $ 1,082 (1) We present OIBITDA as a measure that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP), in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to provide investors with a supplemental measure of our operating performance. We believe that OIBITDA is a useful performance measure and is employed by us to facilitate comparisons of our operating performance on a consistent basis from period-to-period and to provide for a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our core business than measures under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) can provide alone. Our board and management also use OIBITDA as some of the primary methods for planning and forecasting overall expected performance and for evaluating on a quarterly and annual basis actual results against such expectations, and as a performance evaluation metric in determining achievement of certain compensation programs and plans for our management and organization. 29 We define OIBITDA as operational earnings before interest expense, related party interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, loss on early extinguishment of debt and related party debt, transaction fees and costs related to our being a public company. Omitting interest, taxes and the other items provides a financial measure that facilitates comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness and tax structures that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors ability to make like comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because many other companies likely employ a greater amount of property and intangible assets. We also believe that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate OIBITDA as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry. OIBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) for the periods indicated as a measure of our performance. The use of OIBITDA has limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider these performance measures in isolation from, or as an alternative to, GAAP measures such as net income (loss). OIBITDA is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP or otherwise and is not an alternative to cash flow from continuing operating activities. Our presentation of OIBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by the expenses that are excluded from that term or by unusual or non-recurring items. The limitations of OIBITDA include: (i) it does not reflect our corporate expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; (ii) it does not include costs of being a public company which will increase in 2020 as we will be a public company over 12 months as opposed to 2 months; it does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (iii) it does not reflect income tax payments we may be required to make; and (iv) it does not reflect the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments associated with indebtedness. To properly and prudently evaluate our business, we encourage you to review our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the reconciliation to OIBITDA from net income (loss), the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with GAAP, set forth in the following table. All the items included in the reconciliation from net income to OIBITDA are either (i) corporate costs or (ii) items that management does not consider in assessing our on-going operating performance. In the case of the other items that management does not consider in assessing our on-going operating performance, management believes that investors may find it useful to assess our operating performance if the measures are presented without these items because their financial impact may not reflect on-going operating performance. OIBITDA calculation comparison for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: December 31 2019 2018 Operating income $ 1,084 $ 1,057 Depreciation and amortization 25 25 Corporate, general and administrative 239 - $ 1,348 $ 1,082 30 Operational performance comparison for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: December 31 2019 2018 Revenue $ 38,444 $ 37,638 Gross profit $ 4,069 $ 3,864 OIBITDA $ 1,348 $ 1,082 Net profit $ 195 $ 386 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section includes several forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including, but not limited to, statements about our plans, strategies, adequacy of resources and future financial results (such as revenue, gross profit, operating profit, cash flow), are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by words like anticipates, believes, expects, may, will, can, could, should, intends, project, predict, plans, estimates, goal, target, possible, potential, would, seek, and similar references to future periods. These statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us and our clients; our ability to access the capital markets by pursuing additional debt and equity financing to fund our business plan and expenses on terms acceptable to the Majority Shareholders or at all; negative outcome of pending and future claims and litigation and our ability to comply with our contractual covenants, including in respect of our debt; potential loss of clients and possible rejection of our business model and/or sales methods; weakness in general economic conditions and levels of capital spending by customers in the industries we serve; weakness or volatility in the financial and capital markets, which may result in the postponement or cancellation of our customers projects or the inability of our customers to pay our fees; delays or reductions in U.S. government spending; credit risks associated with our customers; competitive market pressures; the availability and cost of qualified labor; our level of success in attracting, training and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; changes in tax laws and other government regulations, including the impact of health care reform laws and regulations; the possibility of incurring liability for our business activities, including, but not limited to, the activities of our temporary employees; our performance on customer contracts; and government policies, legislation or judicial decisions adverse to our businesses. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We recommend readers to carefully review the entirety of this Annual Report, including the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report and the other reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), particularly our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our reports on Form 8-K. 31 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, our expectations regarding the future performance of our business and the other non-historical statements in the discussion and analysis are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should read the following discussion together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our financial information may not be indicative of our future performance. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Please note that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us and our clients continues to evolve and is expected to adversely impact our assumptions and projections. As discussed below, the Company has been adversely impacted in significant ways as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The continued impact of this pandemic is not knowable at this time. Rather than attempt to guess as to the impact of the pandemic, the following managements discussion and analysis, unless otherwise noted, does not address the specific impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is expected that the business environment and the economy as a whole will be adversely impacted by the pandemic. Demand for Maslow EOR services and field talent is dependent upon general economic conditions and labor trends. The United States economic backdrop during 2019 was positive as real gross domestic product (GDP) grew an estimated 2.3%, while the unemployment rate declined from .4% to 3.5% in 2019 (According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics). In the United States, the number of job openings has exceeded the number of hires since February 2015, creating competition for skilled talent, playing into Maslows strength in having a breadth of media talent. However, starting the week of March 9, 2020, the US state and federal governments began urging or requiring residents to stay home and banning large gatherings and restricted travel. Schools were closed and all sporting events across the United States were either cancelled or postponed indefinitely. Many companies mandated that their employees work from home and discontinued use of many workers who could not perform their type of work from home (e.g. video, sound, lighting crew, makeup-artists). Maslow began seeing the effects the week of March 16, 2020 as its contracted employee and freelance payroll hours dropped an estimated 32%. This was because a large portion of Maslow employees were assigned to field, location, or studio filming projects for our clients that require close contact with others. These projects were placed on indefinite hold and these employees who saw their hours dramatically reduced. Those who could continue to work from their homes for our clients, have continued to log hours. We are monitoring the situation; however, we estimate a drop-in revenue during this lock-down period could reach 50% or more. We are hopeful that these impacts will be temporary and that after the resumption of a normally functioning economy we will see a significant rebound, however no assurance can be given on when this will happen or what impact it will have on our business. Our IT staffing resources can typically work from home and these placements have been steady due, in part, to the continued activity by our health care industry customers. This situation has exacerbated our cash position as explained more thoroughly below (see Liquidity and Capital Resources). On February 17, 2020, after several attempts to negotiate a plan with Suresh Venkat Doki and Naveen Doki, Maslow, as plaintiff, filed a complaint with the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Maryland against these obligors. In February 2020, Maslow took out a $250 6-month term loan from Triumph at 10% APR, in order to meet its cash obligations. The shortage of cash at this juncture resulted from, among other things, the Company being unable to finance IQS invoices through Triumph because a lien was discovered to exist on IQS assets delaying utilization of Maslows much more favorable factoring relationship with Triumph. As for the lien, it was not disclosed to Maslow by Vivos Holdings Inc., the seller, before or after the transaction closed. 32 This required the Company to employ Wilco, the factor used by IQS entity, which charged approximately 15% more per annum than what Maslow was paying its Factor, Triumph. Maslow terminated the relationship with IQSs Factor, Wilco, in April 2020. Because of the sudden drop in client requirements during the COVID-19 pandemic the Company was forced to reduce contracted employees hours, furlough 6 general and administrative personnel and institute pay-cuts across the board with executives taking a larger pay cut. We expect that after the COVID-19 pandemic is under control, our clients will re-engage our employees who were sidelined as a result of the pandemic. The impact of the outbreak on the entire labor market will depend on many factors, including the duration of the economic disruption, including continuing reduction of client labor hours. If the disruption continues longer, then the Company, and its competitors are likely to layoff even more contracted employees and furlough general and administrative support staff. The Companys executives and its board of directors have been working together on measures to facilitate the rapid ramp-up of operations once the governmental restrictions have been lifted and our clients return to their customary levels of demand. In the meantime, we are pursuing any and all U.S., state and local stimulus packages for additional liquidity. If the Company cannot get back to prior revenue levels by early June 2020 and has been unable to raise sufficient capital from government stimulus loans or private investors and the Related Party Debt is not repaid in a timely manner, there will be a going concern and pose a significant hardship on the Companys sustainability. This is exacerbated by required payments of approximately $730,000 of principal and interest on the Companys outstanding notes due in June and July 2020. COMPANY OVERVIEW The Companys subsidiary The Maslow Media Group, Inc. (Maslow) is currently the only earning center for the business. After our Merger in October 2019, non-operational expenses (e.g. public company fees, D&O insurance, investor relations) were assigned at the corporate level. Maslow is a national provider of employer of record and recruiting and staffing services, and in December 2019, we completed the acquisition of the vital commercial assets of Intelligent Quality Solutions (IQS), an IT staffing firm focused on software testing, out of Plymouth, Minnesota. We provide services to client primarily within the United States of America. Our services consist of: Employer of Record (EOR): A unique workforce solution for any organization who seeks efficiency in employee administrative management including payroll and benefits, labor risk associated with compliance with federal-state and local regulations including Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), in onboarding and offboarding employees, and in managing benefit costs. Recruiting and Staffing: Staffing covering a wide variety of specialties. Currently Media and Information Technology (IT) encompass most of our placements. Video and Multimedia Production: With 32 years of experience, the Companys subsidiary, Maslow, offer script to screen expertise including producers, audio engineers, editors, broadcasters, makeup artists, camera crews, Gaffers and grips, drone operators and more. 33 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Maslow had revenues totaling $38,444 in 2019, which was a 2.1% increase over $37,638 in 2018. IQS assets which were acquired on December 1, 2019 accounted for $245, thus the existing Maslow business increased $561 which represents a 1.5% improvement over 2018. In late 2018, however, Maslow lost 3 clients which reduced our run rate revenue for 2019 by $1,855. Thus, revenue growth as measured against 2018 run rate of $35,783 ($37,638-$1,855) is 7.4%. The decision to leave Maslow by these three clients was not attributable to Maslows pricing, service, or performance. The overall improvement in revenue can be attributed to increased payrolls and staffing by current customers. New clients (7) represented $688 in revenue (1.8%), which is slightly higher than the 1.5% Maslows growth rate, Year over Year. Overall, the top 10 clients represented $31,627 which is 82% of 2019 revenues, which was an increase by approximately $895 to 2018s top 10 at approximately $30,732. $48 in rebates were issued in December 2019 which was $13 greater than 2018. The following tables summarize key components of our results of operations for the periods indicated, both in dollars and as a percentage of revenues, and have been derived from our consolidated financial statements. December 31 2019 2018 Revenue $ 38,444 $ 37,638 Cost of services 34,375 33,774 Gross profit 4,069 3,864 Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,985 2,807 Operating income 1,084 1,057 Interest income 68 80 Interest expense (438 ) (328 ) Other expense (206 ) (241 ) Income before taxes 508 568 Income tax expense (156 ) (182 ) Non-controlling interest in consolidated affiliates (157 ) - Net income $ 195 $ 386 The 2019 consolidated statement of income includes 1 month of IQS operations. Revenues: By Segment 2019 % of Revenue 2018 % of Revenue EOR $ 34,452 89.6 % $ 34,573 91.9 % Recruiting and Staffing 2,190 5.7 % 1,739 4.6 % Video and Multimedia Production 1,641 4.3 % 1,228 3.3 % Other 161 0.4 % 98 0.3 % Total Revenue $ 38,444 100.0 % $ 37,638 100.0 % 34 Employer of Record (EOR) Revenues : EOR which represents 89.6% of our revenue saw a marginal decrease in year over year revenue by 0.35% to $34,452 which can be mostly attributable to the loss of the three key clients in late 2018. Recruiting and Staffing Revenues : Staffing revenues increased by $451, or 26%. The IQS acquisition contributing the vast majority with approximately $245 in December 2019. Video and Multimedia Production Revenues : Video Production revenues increased approximately $413, or 34%. This was due to increase in demand and our teams more aggressive approach in touting our capabilities to existing customers. Gross Profit: Gross profit represents revenues from services less cost of services expenses, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes, benefits, payroll-related insurance, union benefits, field talent costs, and reimbursable costs. Overall, our gross profit increased approximately $206, or 5.3% to $4,069 due primarily to an increase in higher margin revenues, including the addition of IQS which garnered 25.8% in its first month. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit has increased to 10.6% from 10.3%. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) : SG&A expenses increased $178, or 6.3%, to $2,985, $233 of which was related to salary increases; of which $114 attributable to having Controller position filled for an entire year, IQS salaries (approximately $23 per pay period ), and our CFO fully allocated. Additional increases were driven by business development, increase in business insurance, including D&O insurance, due to the change in status as a public company, road show travel, and legal costs. Depreciation and Amortization: Depreciation and amortization charges remained consistent at $25. Interest Income : Interest income from related parties decreased from $80 to $68, as a result of consolidation of the related entity. Other Expense: Other expenses decreased by $35 from $241 to $206 primarily due to Vivos discontinuation of a management fee, charged in 2018 of $240, offset by public company related expenses such as investment banking and relations fees. which had the greatest impact. Interest Expense: Interest expense, net increased by $110 from $328 to $438 primarily due to increase in invoicing resulting in greater receivables being factored, coupled with interest at 12% on a graduated total of $890 in convertible notes. Income Taxes: Income tax expense decreased $26 from $182 to $156 primarily due to due to timing differences and lower income from prior period. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our working capital requirements are driven predominantly by EOR field talent payments, SG&A salaries, public company costs, interest associated with factoring, and client accounts receivable receipts. Since receipts from client payments are on average 54 days behind payments to field talent, working capital requirements can be periodically challenged. We have a Factoring Facility with Triumph. The Company modified its arrangements with Triumph in January 2020 to improve its terms. Triumph advances 93% of our eligible receivables (compared with 90% prior to the modification), at an advance rate of 15 basis points (20 basis points prior to modification), an interest rate of prime plus 2%, from 2.5% prior to modification, and our prime floor rate reduced from 5% down to 4%. As a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, our clients may be more likely to be delinquent in their payments. 35 Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations via borrowings under our Factoring Facility with Triumph and receivables enabling access to the 7% unfactored portion. Because certain large clients have changed their payment practices announcing 60 and 90 day terms amounting to a unilateral extension to contractual terms by 30-60 days, we can be adversely impacted since Triumph, and most other factoring institutions no longer provide credit after an account obligor pays 30 or more days from their contractual terms. Our primary use of cash are for payments to field talent, corporate and staff employees, related payroll liabilities, operating expenses, public company costs, including but not limited to general and professional liability and directors and officers liability insurance premiums, legal fees, filing fees, auditor and accounting fees, stock transfer services, and board compensation; followed by cash factoring and other borrowing interest; cash taxes; and debt payments. Prior to close of Merger, cash was loaned to entities owned and controlled by the Majority Shareholders, totaling approximately $1,124. The Company also expended $275 in deferred federal income tax payments in 2019 and is currently paying between $5 and $25 per month against 2018 taxes to IRS with a plan to complete payment by end of 2020. We are an EOR with the vast majority of contracted talent paid as W-2 employees who are paid known amounts on a consistent schedule; however, our cash inflows do not typically align with these required payments, resulting in temporary cash challenges. We anticipate approximately $1,000 in additional corporate costs in 2020, when compared with 2019 relating to new corporate structure in order to satisfy public company compliance and meet growth objectives. Approximately $595 of these costs are directly related to public company compliance which include legal, insurance, investor relations, filing, and audit fees. The Company added a General Counsel in January 2020 in order to manage legal costs associated with SEC compliance, risk management, and support general business including contractual review. The budget for 2020 corporate costs will be approximately $1,400 which includes salaries for Reliability President, CFO and General Counsel. On June 27, 2020, the Companys outstanding convertible notes will mature and become due and payable. Unless shares of Common Stock are authorized, the conditions to conversion are met and and note holders decide to exercise their option to convert to stock, the Company will need to make principal and interest payments of approximately $952 from June 27, 2020 through October 4 th , 2020. Even before the state and U.S. governments reaction to COVID-19 forced employees to work from their homes starting around March 12, 2020, the Company had begun to experience cash constraints due to the following factors: A personal guaranty provided by Naveen Doki of $3,000 came due in December 2019. This guaranty could be satisfied by Dr. Doki in cash or shares of Company Common Stock that may then be sold to satisfy this obligation. After failed collection and settlement attempts, on February 17, 2020, the Company initiated an action in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County Maryland against Naveen Doki for nonpayment of the guaranty. 36 It was anticipated that following the Merger, the Company would both access the capital markets by selling additional shares of Company Common Stock and use shares of Company Common Stock as currency to acquire other business revenues. However, all 300 million authorized shares of Company Common Stock were issued in connection with the Merger. No shares are expected to become available to the Company until the next meeting of shareholders, upon the approval by the Companys shareholders of an amendment to the Companys Certificate of Formation to increase the number of authorized shares of Company Common Stock, or approve a reverse-split of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock to provide additional shares for these purposes. No assurance can be given that the shareholders will approve such action. The Company had not been able to factor IQS invoices from January 26 through March 31, 2020, because a lien undisclosed to the Company by the seller, Vivos, had been placed on IQSs receivables. By March 27, 2020, a total of unfactored invoices had reached approximately $40. As of April 1, 2020, $219 had not been factored through Triumph, the Companys Factoring Company, Triumph, for administrative reasons. Working capital as of December 31, 2019 was at 784, compared to $1,783 a year ago, impacted most prominently by the $890 in convertible notes (see Note 10) becoming due in 2020 and income tax payable increasing by $153. A summary of our operating, investing and financing activities are shown in the following table: December 31 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1 $ 16 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (39 ) 3 Net cash provided by (used in)financing activities 284 (82 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 246 $ (63 ) Operating Activities Cash employed by operating activities consists of net income, adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, and the effect of working capital changes. The primary drivers of cash inflows and outflows are factoring, accounts receivable and accrued payroll and expenses. During 2019, net cash provided by operating activities was $1, a decrease of $ 15 compared with $16 for 2018. This decrease is primarily attributable to net income, and $456 in deferred income taxes (see Financing Activities for more details). Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures. 37 Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities in 2019 was $284 as compared to cash used in financing activities of ($82) for 2018. The increase was due to the Company raising $890 from issuance of short-term convertible debt as previously discussed, from a $750 note with Vivos Holdings to reimburse MMG for a significant tax event triggered at the time they acquired Maslow, a $215 estimated annual impact per year for 4 years for the fact that Vivos switched Maslow from a cash basis reporting S-Corp to an accrual basis filing C Corp, as well as the acquisition of IQS in exchange for a reduction in related parties notes receivable. The total federal tax liability was agreed with IRS to be deferred over 4 years beginning in 2017. All this was offset by funds advanced to Vivos of $688. Cash flows from financing activities consisted principally of borrowings and payments. $794 was paid on behalf of Vivos for a variety of Merchant Cash Advance (MCA) liabilities that were taken in Maslows name. Cash flows from financing activities consisted principally of borrowings and payments. Net borrowing relating to invoice factoring increased by $70 from $846 to $916 as increase in invoicing and DSO led to increased borrowing. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company has notes payable in the amount of $890 pursuant to a convertible debt offering that commenced June 13, 2019. The offering was conducted pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder. The convertible notes issued have a maturity date that is one year from the issuance of the note, unless earlier converted into shares of Company Common Stock upon the issuance by the Company of Company Common Stock for gross proceeds of at least $5,000. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We are not party to any off-balance sheet arrangements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We have identified the policies listed below as critical to our business and the understanding of our results of operations. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, collectability of accounts receivable, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, contingencies, litigation, income taxes, stock option expense, and other liabilities. Management based its estimates and judgments on historical experiences and on various other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results under circumstances and conditions different than those assumed could result in differences from the estimated amounts in the consolidated financial statements. REVENUE RECOGNITION On January 1, 2019 the Company adopted the new accounting standard ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, for all open contracts and related amendments as of December 31, 2019 using the modified retrospective method. The adoption had no impact to the reported results. Results for reporting periods beginning after December 31, 2017 are presented under ASC 606, while the comparative information will not be restated and will continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. 38 The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, the core principle of which is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve this core principle, five basic criteria must be met before revenue can be recognized: (1) identify the contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligation(s) in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to performance obligation(s) in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. The Company accounts for revenues when both parties to the contract have approved the contract, the rights and obligations of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, and collectability of consideration is probable. Payment terms vary by client and the services offered. We derive our revenues from three segments: EOR, Recruiting and Staffing, and Video and Multimedia Production. We provide temporary staffing and permanent placement services. Revenues are recognized when promised services are delivered to client, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services. Revenues as presented on the consolidated statements of income represent services rendered to client less variable consideration, such as sales adjustments and allowances. Reimbursements, including those related to out-of-pocket expenses, are also included in revenues, and equivalent amounts of reimbursable expenses are included in cost of services. We record revenue on a gross basis as a principal versus on a net basis as an agent in the presentation of revenues and expenses. We have concluded that gross reporting is appropriate because we (i) have the risk of identifying and hiring qualified workers, (ii) have the discretion to select the workers and establish their price and duties and (iii) we bear the risk for services that are not fully paid for by client. Temporary staffing revenues is accounted for as a single performance obligation satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Companys performance on an hourly basis. The contracts stipulate weekly billing and the Company has elected the as invoiced practical expedient to recognize revenue based on the hours incurred at the contractual rate as we have the right to payment in an amount that corresponds directly with the value of performance completed to date. Permanent placement revenue is recognized on the date the candidates full-time employment with the customer has commenced. The customer is invoiced on the start date, and the contract stipulates payment due under varying terms, typically 90 days. The contract with the customer stipulates a guarantee period whereby the Company will replace the candidate for free of charge if the employee is terminated within that 90-day period. As such, the Companys performance obligations are satisfied upon commencement of the employment, at which point control has transferred to the customer. Allowances, recorded as a liability, are established to estimate these losses. Fees to client are generally calculated as a percentage of the new workers annual compensation. No fees for permanent placement services are charged to employment candidates. Video and Multimedia Production revenues from contracts with client are recognized in the amount to which we have a right to invoice, when the services are rendered by our field talent. 39 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In accordance with ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , the Company measures and accounts for certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. ASC 820 establishes a common definition for fair value to be applied to existing generally accepted accounting principles that require the use of fair value measurements and establishes a framework for measuring fair value and standards for disclosure about such fair value measurements. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Additionally, ASC 820 requires the use of valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. These inputs are prioritized below: Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data Level 3: Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which require the use of the reporting entitys own assumptions. When Level 1 inputs are not available, the Company measures fair value using valuation techniques that maximize the use of relevant observable inputs (Level 2) and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3). The carrying amounts reported as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 for cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other current assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses, factoring liability, notes and mortgages payable approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of these instruments or are based on interest rates available to the Company that are comparable to current market rates. It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the notes receivable from related parties due to their related party nature. INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company holds intangible assets with finite lives. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives, ranging from three to ten years, based on a pattern in which the economic benefit of the respective intangible asset is realized. Identifiable intangible assets recognized in conjunction with acquisitions are recorded at fair value. Significant unobservable inputs are used to determine the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets based on the income approach valuation model whereby the present worth and anticipated future benefits of the identifiable intangible assets were discounted back to their net present value. The Company evaluates the recoverability of intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an intangible assets carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company annually evaluates the remaining useful lives of all intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. The Company determined that there were no impairment indicators for these assets during the year ended December 31, 2019. GOODWILL Goodwill represents the difference between the enterprise value/cash paid less the fair value of all recognized net asset fair values including identifiable intangible asset values in a business combination. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Based on annual testing, the Company has determined that there was no goodwill impairment during the year ended December 31, 2019. 40 The Company first evaluates qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If after qualitatively assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then further testing is unnecessary. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the Company then estimates the fair value of the reporting unit and compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill, as discussed below. In assessing whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, the Company assesses relevant events and circumstances that could affect the significant inputs used to determine the fair value. The quantitative impairment test for an indefinite-lived intangible asset consists of a comparison of the fair value of the asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, the Company shall recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess. The quantitative goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired, and no further testing is required. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, The Company must perform the second step of the impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss. In the second step, the reporting units fair value is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical analysis that calculates the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill is less than the carrying value, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUCEMENTS For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and their potential effect on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.