Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2022. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. See the discussion under Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and particularly in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full calendar year or any other period. Overview We are the worlds largest online marketplace for the resale of authenticated luxury goods. We are revolutionizing luxury resale by providing an end-to-end service that unlocks supply from consignors and creates a trusted, curated online marketplace for buyers globally. Since our inception in 2011, we have cultivated a loyal and engaged consignor and buyer base through our investments in our technology platform, logistics infrastructure and people. We offer a wide selection of authenticated, primarily pre-owned luxury goods on our online marketplace bearing the brands of thousands of luxury and premium designers. We offer products across multiple categories including womens and mens fashion, fine jewelry and watches, and home and art. We have built a vibrant online marketplace that we believe expands the overall luxury market, promotes the recirculation of luxury goods and contributes to a more sustainable world. We have transformed the luxury consignment experience by removing the friction and pain points inherent in the traditional consignment model. For consignors, we offer concierge at-home consultation and pickup, subject to safety requirements related to the COVID pandemic, and meetings with consignors via online face-to-face platforms, or virtual consultations. Consignors may also drop off items at our luxury consignment offices. Our larger footprint flagship retail stores, or Flagship stores, and smaller footprint neighborhood retail stores, or Neighborhood stores, provide an alternative location to drop off consigned items and an opportunity to interact with our experts. Consignors may also utilize our complimentary shipping directly to our authentication centers. We leverage our proprietary transactional database and market insights from approximately 24.9 million item sales since inception to deliver optimal pricing and rapid sell-through. For buyers, we offer highly coveted and exclusive authenticated pre-owned luxury goods at attractive values, as well as a high-quality experience befitting the products we offer. Our online marketplace is powered by our proprietary technology platform, including consumer facing applications and purpose-built software that supports our complex, single-SKU inventory management system. The substantial majority of our revenue is generated by consignment sales. We also generate revenue from other services and direct sales. Consignment and service revenue. When we sell goods through our online marketplace or retail stores on behalf of our consignors, we retain a percentage of the proceeds, which we refer to as our take rate. Take rates vary depending on the total value of goods sold through our online marketplace on behalf of a particular consignor as well as the category and price point of the items. In the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 35.7% and 34.3%, respectively. The increase in our take rate was due to the larger sales mix of higher take rate categories such as women's apparel. Additionally, we earn revenue from shipping fees and from our subscription program, First Look , in which we offer buyers early access to the items we sell in exchange for a monthly fee. Direct revenue. When we accept out of policy returns from buyers, or when we make direct purchases from businesses and consignors, we take ownership of goods and retain 100% of the proceeds when the goods subsequently sell through our online marketplace or retail stores. We generate revenue from orders processed through our website, mobile app and 19 retail locations. Our omni-channel experience enables buyers to purchase anytime and anywhere. We have a global base of more than 27.5 million members as of March 31, 2022. We count as a member any user who has registered an email address on our website or downloaded our mobile app, thereby agreeing to our terms of service. Through March 31, 2022, we have cumulatively paid more than $2.6 billion in commissions to our consignors. Our GMV increased by 31% to $428.2 million from $327.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Additionally, NMV increased by 27% to $310.5 million from $244.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 26 Table of Contents 2022 and 2021 due to GMV growth, partially offset by an increase in returns year over year. Our total revenue increased by 48% to $146.7 million from $98.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, our gross profit was $78.6 million and $58.3 million, respectively, representing an increase of 35%. See Impact of COVID-19 on our Business below. Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business In the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted our business and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we experienced a return to our previous high growth. In 2021, many COVID-19-related restrictions continued to ease, allowing the Company to resume in-person concierge consignment appointments. GMV and net revenues have recovered, yielding year over year increases in 2021, and increases during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period last year. Throughout the pandemic, our top priority has been to protect the health and safety of our employees and our customers. While supply has continued to come into our authentication centers, COVID-related staff absences in late December 2021 and into the first part of the three months ended March 31, 2022 negatively impacted the time for processing and launching products on our website. We also experienced difficulty hiring sufficient employees in our authentication centers due to increased competition for e-commerce fulfillment and authentication center employees, as e-commerce demand continues to grow. Additionally, the effects of any new variants of COVID-19 that may arise make it difficult to predict the impact of COVID-19 on our business going forward, including any impacts on our vendors. Other Factors Affecting Our Performance Other key business and marketplace factors, independent of the health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, impact our business. To analyze our business performance, determine financial forecasts and help develop long-term strategic plans, we focus on the factors described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunity for our business, collectively, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain our growth, improve our operating results and achieve and maintain our profitability. Consignors and Buyers Consignor growth and retention. We grow our sales by increasing the supply of luxury goods offered through our consignment online marketplace. We grow our supply both by attracting new consignors and by creating lasting engagement with existing consignors. We generate leads for new consignors principally through our advertising activity. We convert those leads into active consignors through the activities of our sales professionals, who are trained and incentivized to identify and source high-quality, coveted luxury goods from consignors. Our sales professionals form a consultative relationship with consignors and deliver a high-quality, rapid consigning experience. Our existing relationships with consignors allow us to unlock valuable supply across multiple categories within the home, including womens, mens, kids, jewelry and watches, and home and art. We leverage our proprietary transactional database and market insights based on more than 24.9 million item sales since inception to deliver consignors optimal pricing and rapid sell-through. Our growth has been driven in significant part by repeat sales by existing consignors concurrent with growth of our consignor base. The percentage of GMV from repeat consignors in the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 85% as compared to 84% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Buyer growth and retention. We grow our business by attracting and retaining buyers. We attract and retain buyers by offering highly coveted, authenticated, pre-owned luxury goods at attractive values and delivering a high-quality, luxury experience. We measure our success in attracting and retaining buyers by tracking buyer satisfaction and purchasing activity over time. We have experienced high buyer satisfaction, as evidenced by our buyer net promoter score of 62 in 2021, and compared to our online shopping industry average of 40 according to NICE Satmetrix U.S. Consumer 2021 data. If we fail to continue to attract and retain our buyer base to our online marketplace, our operating results would be adversely affected. We believe there is substantial opportunity to grow our business by having buyers also become consignors and vice versa. As of March 31, 2022, 14% of our buyers had become consignors and 57% of our consignors had become buyers. If we fail to continue to attract and retain our buyer base to our online marketplace, our operating results would be adversely affected. Scaling operations and technology. To support the future growth of our business, we are expanding our capacity through investments in physical infrastructure, talent and technology. We principally conduct our intake, authentication, merchandising and fulfillment operations in our four leased authentication centers located in Arizona and New Jersey 27 Table of Contents comprising an aggregate of approximately 1.4 million square feet of space. In October 2020, we secured a lease in Arizona for an additional authentication center and moved operations from our former Brisbane authentication center in June 2021. We operate flagship retail stores in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Chicago. We operate neighborhood stores in New York, Palo Alto, Newport Beach, Greenwich, Dallas, Austin, Atlanta, Marin County, Manhasset, and Palm Beach. Additionally, we opened a neighborhood store in Brentwood, California during the three months ended March 31, 2022. In addition to scaling our physical infrastructure, growing our single-SKU business operations require that we attract, train and retain highly-skilled personnel for purposes of authentication, copywriting, merchandising, pricing and fulfilling orders. We have invested substantially in technology to automate our operations and support growth, including proprietary machine learning technology to support efficiency and quality. We continue to strategically invest in technology, as innovation positions us to scale and support growth into the future. Seasonality. Historically, we have observed trends in seasonality of supply and demand in our business. Specifically, our supply increases in the third and fourth quarters, and our demand increases in the fourth quarter. As a result of this seasonality, we typically see stronger AOV and more rapid sell-through in the fourth quarter. We also incur higher operating expenses in the last four months of the year as we increase advertising spend to attract consignors and buyers and increase headcount in sales and operations to handle the higher volumes. Key Financial and Operating Metrics The key operating and financial metrics that we use to assess the performance of our business are set forth below for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (In thousands, except AOV and percentages) GMV $ 428,206 $ 327,327 NMV $ 310,511 $ 244,162 Consignment and service revenue $ 97,877 $ 75,082 Direct revenue $ 48,823 $ 23,735 Number of orders 878 690 Take rate 35.7 % 34.3 % Active buyers 828 687 AOV $ 487 $ 474 % of GMV from repeat buyers 85.0 % 83.6 % GMV Gross merchandise value (GMV) represents the total amount paid for goods across our online marketplace in a given period. We do not reduce GMV to reflect product returns or order cancellations. GMV includes amounts paid for both consigned goods and our inventory net of platform-wide discounts and excludes the effect of buyer incentives, shipping fees and sales tax. Platform-wide discounts are made available to all buyers on the online marketplace, and impact commissions paid to consignors. Buyer incentives apply to specific buyers and consist of coupons or promotions that offer credits in connection with purchases on our platform. In addition to revenue, we believe this is an important measure of the scale and growth of our online marketplace and a key indicator of the health of our consignor ecosystem. We monitor trends in GMV to inform budgeting and operational decisions to support and promote growth in our business and to monitor our success in adapting our business to meet the needs of our consignors and buyers. While GMV is the primary driver of our revenue, it is not a proxy for revenue or revenue growth. See Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesRevenue RecognitionConsignment and Service Revenue. NMV Net merchandise value (NMV) represents the value of sales from both consigned goods and our inventory net of platform-wide discounts less product returns and order cancellations and excludes the effect of buyer incentives, shipping fees and sales tax. We believe NMV is a supplemental measure of the scale and growth of our online marketplace. Like GMV, NMV is not a proxy for revenue or revenue growth. 28 Table of Contents Consignment and Service Revenue Consignment and service revenue is generated from the sale of pre-owned luxury goods through our online marketplace and retail stores on behalf of consignors. We retain a portion of the proceeds received, which we refer to as our take rate. We recognize consignment revenue, net of allowances for product returns, order cancellations, buyer incentives and adjustments. Additionally, we generate revenue from shipping fees we charge to buyers. We also generate service revenue from subscription fees paid by buyers for early access to products. Direct Revenue Direct revenue is generated from the sales of company-owned inventory. We recognize direct revenue upon shipment of the goods sold, based on the gross purchase price net of allowances for product returns, buyer incentives and adjustments. Number of Orders Number of orders means the total number of orders placed across our online marketplace and retail stores in a given period. We do not reduce number of orders to reflect product returns or order cancellations. Take Rate Take rate is a key driver of our revenue and provides comparability to other marketplaces. The numerator used to calculate our take rate is equal to net consignment sales and the denominator is equal to the numerator plus consignor commissions. Net consignment sales represent the value of sales from consigned goods net of platform-wide discounts less consignor commission, product returns and order cancellations. We exclude direct revenue from our calculation of take rate because direct revenue represents the sale of inventory owned by us, which costs are included in cost of direct revenue. Our take rate reflects the high level of service that we provide to our consignors across multiple touch points and the consistently high velocity of sales for their goods. Our take rate structure is a tiered commission structure for consignors, where the more they sell the higher percent commission they earn. Consignors start at a 55% commission (which equals a 45% take rate for us) and can earn up to a 70% commission. This tiered structure applies unless it is overridden by a commission exception. Commission exceptions from the tiered commission structure optimize supply and drive take rate changes. Examples of current commission exceptions include a flat 30% commission on all items under $96, and an 85% commission on watches over $2,495. Management assesses changes in take rates by monitoring the volume of GMV and take rate across each discrete commission grouping, encompassing commission tiers and exceptions. Active Buyers Active buyers include buyers who purchased goods through our online marketplace during the 12 months ended on the last day of the period presented, irrespective of returns or cancellations. We believe this metric reflects scale, brand awareness, buyer acquisition and engagement. Average Order Value (AOV) Average order value (AOV) means the average value of all orders placed across our online marketplace and retail stores, excluding shipping fees and sales taxes. Our focus on luxury goods across multiple categories drives a consistently strong AOV. Our AOV reflects both the average price of items sold as well as the number of items per order. Our AOV is a key driver of our operating leverage. Percent of GMV from Repeat Buyers Repeat buyers represents buyers who made a purchase in the months subsequent to the month they made their initial purchase across our online marketplace and retail stores. GMV from repeat buyers reflects purchases made after their initial purchase month. Non-GAAP Financial Measures 29 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our operating performance. Because Adjusted EBITDA facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use this measure as an overall assessment of our performance, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and for business planning purposes. Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled metrics of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA means net loss before interest income, interest expense, other (income) expense net, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization, further adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation, payroll taxes on employee stock transactions, and certain one-time expenses. Adjusted EBITDA provides a basis for comparison of our business operations between current, past and future periods by excluding items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations as the measure excludes the impact of certain expenses that are included in our statements of operations that are necessary to run our business and should not be considered as an alternative to net loss or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation: Net loss $ (57,412) $ (55,993) Depreciation and amortization 6,364 5,435 Stock-based compensation 12,514 10,919 Payroll taxes expense on employee stock transactions 205 506 Legal settlement 304 288 Interest income (98) (87) Interest expense 2,664 3,296 Other (income) expense, net 139 (17) Provision for income taxes 28 Adjusted EBITDA $ (35,320) $ (35,625) Components of our Operating Results Revenue Our revenue is comprised of consignment and service revenue and direct revenue. Consignment and service revenue. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from the sale of pre-owned luxury goods through our online marketplace and retail stores on behalf of consignors. For consignment sales, we retain a percentage of the proceeds received, which we refer to as our take rate. We recognize consignment revenue, net of allowances for product returns, order cancellations, buyer incentives and adjustments. Additionally, we generate revenue from shipping fees we charge to buyers. We also generate service revenue from subscription fees paid by buyers for early access to products, but to date our subscription revenue has not been material. Direct revenue. We generate direct revenue from the sale of items that we own, which we refer to as our inventory. We generally acquire inventory when we accept out of policy returns from buyers, and when we make direct purchases from businesses and consignors. We recognize direct revenue upon shipment based on the gross purchase price paid by buyers for goods, net of allowances for product returns, buyer incentives and adjustments. Cost of Revenue Cost of consignment and services revenue consists of shipping costs, credit card fees, packaging, customer service personnel-related costs, website hosting services, and consignor inventory adjustments related to lost or damaged products. Cost of direct revenue consists of the cost of goods sold, credit card fees, packaging, customer service personnel-related costs, website hosting services, and inventory adjustments for lower of cost or net realizable value provisions and for lost or damaged products. 30 Table of Contents Marketing Marketing expense comprises the cost of acquiring and retaining consignors and buyers, including the cost of television, digital and direct mail advertising. Marketing expense also includes personnel-related costs for employees engaged in these activities. We expect these expenses to continue to decrease as a percentage of revenue. Operations and Technology Operations and technology expense principally includes personnel-related costs for employees involved with the authentication, merchandising and fulfillment of goods sold through our online marketplace and retail stores, as well as our general information technology expense. Operations and technology expense also includes allocated facility and overhead costs, costs related to our retail stores, facility supplies and depreciation of hardware and equipment, as well as research and development expense for technology associated with managing and improving our operations. We capitalize a portion of our proprietary software and technology development costs. As such, operations and technology expense also includes amortization of capitalized technology development costs. We expect operations and technology expense to increase in future periods to support our growth, including continuing to invest in automation and other technology improvements to support and drive efficiency in our operations. These expenses may vary from year to year as a percentage of revenue, depending primarily upon when we choose to make more significant investments. We expect these expenses to continue to decrease as a percentage of revenue. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense is principally comprised of personnel-related costs for our sales professionals and employees involved in finance and administration. Selling, general and administrative expense also includes allocated facilities and overhead costs and professional services, including accounting and legal advisors. We expect these expenses to continue to decrease as a percentage of revenue. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of state minimum taxes in the United States. We have a full valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets primarily consisting of net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, fixed assets, and other book-to-tax timing differences. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations (in thousands) and such data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: 31 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue: Consignment and service revenue $ 97,877 $ 75,082 Direct revenue 48,823 23,735 Total revenue 146,700 98,817 Cost of revenue: Cost of consignment and service revenue 28,049 20,114 Cost of direct revenue 40,034 20,365 Total cost of revenue 68,083 40,479 Gross profit 78,617 58,338 Operating expenses: Marketing 17,961 15,561 Operations and technology 67,101 51,934 Selling, general and administrative 48,262 43,616 Total operating expenses 133,324 111,111 Loss from operations (54,707) (52,773) Interest income 98 87 Interest expense (2,664) (3,296) Other income (expense), net (139) 17 Loss before provision for income taxes (57,412) (55,965) Provision for income taxes 28 Net loss $ (57,412) $ (55,993) 32 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue: Consignment and service revenue 66.7 % 76.0 % Direct revenue 33.3 24.0 Total revenue 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenue: Cost of consignment and service revenue 19.1 20.4 Cost of direct revenue 27.3 20.6 Total cost of revenue 46.4 41.0 Gross profit 53.6 59.0 Operating expenses: Marketing 12.2 15.7 Operations and technology 45.7 52.6 Selling, general and administrative 33.0 44.1 Total operating expenses 90.9 112.4 Loss from operations (37.3) (53.4) Interest income 0.1 0.1 Interest expense (1.8) (3.3) Other income (expense), net (0.1) Loss before provision for income taxes (39.1) (56.6) Provision for income taxes Net loss (39.1) % (56.6) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Consignment and Service Revenue Consignment and service revenue increased by $22.8 million, or 30%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in revenue was driven primarily by a 31% increase in GMV and improvement in our take rate during the three months ended March 31, 2022, partially offset by an increase in returns and cancellations year over year. GMV growth during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was driven by a 27% increase in orders and a 3% increase in AOV due to an increased market demand for online luxury goods. We believe this growth is driven by heightened interest in luxury resale due to increasing consumer desire for more affordable, accessible luxury goods in a sustainable circular economy. Returns and cancellations as a percentage of GMV for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 27.5%, compared to 25.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to a higher sales mix of returnable products, such as apparel, during the three months March 31, 2022. Our take rate increased to 35.7% from 34.3% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period last year due to an increased contribution from higher take rate products such as women's apparel. Direct Revenue Direct revenue increased by $25.1 million, or 106%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by the higher sales mix of company-owned inventory due to direct purchases from businesses and consignors. We recognize direct revenue on a gross basis upon shipment of the purchased good to the buyer. Direct revenue has been increasing as a percentage of total revenue in recent quarters as a result of sell-through of company owned inventory from previous direct purchases from businesses. We intend to limit the amount of direct purchases from businesses in the future. Direct revenue as a percentage of total revenue may vary from period to period primarily based on the growth of consignment and service revenue, as well as the amount of company-owned inventory we purchase. We anticipate direct revenue to decrease as a percentage of total revenue over the longer term. Cost of Consignment and Service Revenue 33 Table of Contents Cost of consignment and service revenue increased by $7.9 million, or 39%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to increases in shipping costs driven by fulfillment of a larger number of orders and credit card fees driven by growth in our business. Consignment and service revenue gross margin decreased by 2 percentage points in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 . This decrease was primarily attributable to a higher allocation of credit card fees to consignment and service revenue. Cost of Direct Revenue Cost of direct revenue increased by $19.7 million, or 97%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Direct revenue gross margin increased by 4 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily driven by favorable product margins and a lower allocation of credit card fees. The margin profile of our direct revenue is lower than consignment and service revenue. Our total gross margin decreased by 5% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 due to the increase in direct revenue as a percentage of total revenue. Gross margin may vary from period to period. Marketing Marketing expense increased by $2.4 million, or 15%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to increases in advertising costs as we seek to optimize the digital experience on our online marketplace and grow the number of buyers and consignors. As a percent of revenue, marketing expense decreased to 12.2% from 15.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These expenses may vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, depending primarily upon our marketing investments. We expect these expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over the longer term. Operations and Technology Operations and technology expense increased by $15.2 million, or 29%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher employee compensation related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense due to an increase in headcount. The increase was also driven by an increase in software fees. As a percent of revenue, operations and technology expense decreased to 45.7% from 52.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These expenses may vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, depending primarily upon when we choose to make more significant investments. We expect these expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over the longer term. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $4.6 million, or 11%, in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher employee compensation expenses, including stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount, and an increase in software fees. As a percent of revenue, selling, general and administrative expense decreased to 33.0% from 44.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These expenses may vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. We expect these expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over the longer term. Interest Income Interest income was flat for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $0.6 million, or 19%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2022, which eliminated the debt 34 Table of Contents discount related to both the 3.00% convertible senior notes issued in June 2020 and the 1.00% convertible senior notes issued in March 2021. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense) decreased by $0.2 million, or over 100% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $361.0 million and an accumulated deficit of $812.1 million. Since inception, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and have primarily financed our operations through equity and convertible debt financings. In July 2019, we received net proceeds of $315.5 million upon completion of our IPO on July 2, 2019. In June 2020, we received net proceeds of $143.3 million from the issuance of the 2025 Notes and the related capped call transactions. In March 2021, we received net proceeds of $244.5 million from the 2028 Notes and the related capped call transactions. We expect that operating losses and negative cash flows from operations could continue in the foreseeable future. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2022 will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to grow our revenues and the timing of investments to support growth in our business, such as the build-out of our authentication centers and, to a lesser extent, the opening of new retail stores. We may seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (49,354) $ (47,808) Investing activities (8,447) (4,330) Financing activities 637 249,151 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (57,164) $ 197,013 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $49.4 million, which consisted of a net loss of $57.4 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $25.3 million and cash outflows due to a net change of $17.2 million in our operating assets and liabilities. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of cash outflows due to an $8.6 million decrease in other accrued and current liabilities, primarily due to the $11.0 million legal settlement payment made during the three months ended March 31, 2022 in connection with the class-action lawsuit, a decrease of $3.7 million in operating lease liabilities, an increase of $2.7 million in inventory driven by an increase in direct purchases of inventory from vendors, and a $2.4 million decrease in accrued consignor payable, partially offset by a $2.0 million increase in accounts payable. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $47.8 million, which consisted of a net loss of $56.0 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $24.4 million and cash outflows due to a net change of $16.2 million in our operating assets and liabilities. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of cash outflows due to an increase of $7.2 million in inventory, a decrease of $5.1 million in accounts payable, a decrease of $4.0 million in operating lease liability, and a decrease of $2.6 million in accrued consignor payable. 35 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $8.4 million, which consisted of $5.1 million for purchases of property and equipment, net, including leasehold improvements and $3.3 million for capitalized proprietary software development costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities was $4.3 million, which primarily consisted of $5.9 million for purchases of property and equipment, net, including leasehold improvements, and $2.4 million for capitalized proprietary software development costs, partially offset by $4.0 million of proceeds from maturities on short-term investments. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.6 million, which consisted of proceeds of $0.6 million from the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $249.2 million, which primarily consisted of proceeds of $278.8 million from the issuance of the 1.00% convertible senior notes, net of issuance costs, $4.0 million from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $33.7 million for the purchase of capped calls related to the 2028 Notes issuance. Convertible Senior Notes As of March 31, 2022, we had 3.00% convertible senior notes due 2025 outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $172.5 million and 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2028 outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $287.5 million. A portion of the net proceeds from the sale of these convertible senior notes was used to fund the net cost of entering into the capped call transactions described below. We intend to use the remainder of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. The 2025 Notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at the Companys election, at an initial conversion rate of 56.2635 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the convertible senior notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $17.77 per share of our common stock. The initial conversion price of the notes represents a premium of approximately 27.5% over the $13.94 closing price of our common stock on June 10, 2020. The 2028 Notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at the Companys election, at an initial conversion rate of 31.4465 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the convertible senior notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $31.80 per share of our common stock. The initial conversion price of the notes represents a premium of approximately 32.5% over the $24.00 closing price of our common stock on March 3, 2021. In connection with the convertible senior notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions, with certain of the initial purchasers or their affiliates. The capped call transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of common stock underlying the convertible senior notes sold in the offering. The capped call transactions are generally expected to reduce potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. The cap price of the capped call transactions related to the 2025 Notes was initially $27.88 per share, which represents a premium of 100.0% over the closing price of our common stock of $13.94 per share on June 10, 2020, and is subject to certain adjustments under the terms of the capped call transactions. The cap price of the capped call transactions related to the 2028 Notes was initially $48.00 per share, which represents a premium of 100.0% over the closing price of our common stock of $24.00 per share on March 3, 2021, and is subject to certain adjustments under the terms of the capped call transactions. For additional details related to our convertible senior notes, please see Note 7 Convertible Senior Notes, Net to the condensed financial statements included in this report. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2022, there have been no material changes from the contractual obligations and commitments previously disclosed in our Annual Report on 10-K. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated, and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, we believe that the accounting estimates discussed below relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Leases For our operating leases, we record a lease liability based on the present value of the lease payments at lease inception, using the applicable incremental borrowing rate. We estimate the incremental borrowing rate based on our own estimated synthetic credit rating, corresponding yield curve, and the terms of each lease at the lease commencement date. Given the lack of a directly observable Company specific credit rating, there is significant judgment in the methodology used to develop the incremental borrowing rates, including the development of the synthetic credit rating. Management also typically utilizes third party valuation specialists to provide market yield curves associated with our estimated synthetic credit rating. The incremental borrowing rates we used ranged from 2.3% to 9.3% depending on the lease terms. The sensitivity of the estimate is mainly due to the judgement used in the development of the synthetic credit rating and yield curves at lease inception. Convertible Senior Notes Prior to the adoption of ASU 2020-06 and in recording our convertible debt instruments, we separately accounted for the liability and equity components by allocating proceeds between the liability component and the embedded conversion options, or equity components. We allocated the debt components of the instruments on the basis of the estimated fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature and the remaining proceeds were allocated to the equity component. The allocation was performed in a manner that reflects our non-convertible debt borrowing rate for similar debt. The fair value borrowing rate is considered a critical estimate because of the judgment necessary in assessing an interest rate that would be available to the company of a similar debt instrument that does not have a conversion feature. For the 2025 Notes with a principal amount of $172.5 million, an interest rate of 5.67% was used to compute the initial fair value of the liability component of $152.7 million. For the 2028 Notes with a principal amount of $287.5 million, an interest rate of 7.18% was used to compute the initial fair value of the liability component of $191.3 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For more information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our unaudited condensed financial statements Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.