Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the words believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, may, will, potential, projects, predicts, continue, or should, or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology. There can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Such statements include, but are not limited to, any statements relating to our financial and business performance, market acceptance and the anticipated success of our business model, and our ability to expand the scope of our offerings. These statements are based on management's current expectations, but actual results may differ materially due to various factors. The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Future developments affecting us may not be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) and other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These risks and others described under Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors may not be exhaustive. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. We caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that our actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and developments in the industry in which we operate may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, even if our results or operations, financial condition and liquidity, and developments in the industry in which we operate are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods. 3 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Our mission is to make all dogs happy. We believe that dogs and humans are better together and we aspire to be the worlds favorite dog brand. We are a team of dog-obsessed people committed to delivering personalization at scale by satisfying each dogs distinct personality, preferences, and needs. Since our founding in 2011, we have happily served over six million dogs and their people. We are a vertically integrated, omnichannel brand serving dogs across four key categories: play, food, health, and home. All of our products are designed, developed, and branded BARK. We leverage an ever-growing collection of proprietary data, customer insights, and machine learning to deliver personalized products and experiences tailored to the needs of each and every dog we serve. Our products are primarily sold direct-to-consumer (DTC), and on a subscription basis, which we believe provides us with strong visibility into future revenue. We also sell many of our products through our network of retail partners. The Company signed 23 new retail partners in FY 2022 which will increase BARKs presence to over 40,000 doors in fiscal year 2023. We began our journey in the play category with BarkBox a monthly-themed subscription of toys and treats, tailored to the needs of each customer based on their dogs size, play style, allergies, and more. By viewing each dog as an individual, and by creating magical experiences for our customers, we have been able to build lasting relationships with millions of dogs and their parents. Our customer serviceHappy Teamproactively engages over 250,000 customers each month. We use the valuable data from these customer interactions to inform the design and development of future products, and we leverage it along with machine learning technology to recommend additional products to our customers through cross-selling and Add-to-Box (ATB). This data helps drive Average Order Value (AOV) and improves customer retention. In 2017 we launched Super Chewer, our second product in the play category, which expanded our addressable market and enabled us to scale our customer base more quickly. We believe that we have created a category-defining brand that has captured a healthy share of the roughly $3 billion dog toy market. On March 31, 2022, we served approximately 2.3 million active subscriptions, over 9 million social media followers, and more than ten million email contacts, which affords us meaningful insights and reach with a significant portion of the U.S. dog population. Over the past 24 months, we have entered exciting new categories like food and health that have expanded our total addressable market to over $40 billion. We are approaching food and health with the same playbook that made BarkBox and SuperChewer so successful. By viewing each dog as an individual, and by personalizing their experience. Historically, personalization at scale has not been feasible in areas like food, because there simply isnt enough retail shelf space, plus they lack the information on millions of dogs thats necessary to serve them as individuals. We believe that our detailed information on over six million dogs and our proven ability to customize products at scale gives us a big advantage and opportunity to win in this category. Over the past year, we have grown our customer base, enhanced our cross-selling capabilities, and launched new and innovative products that significantly expanded our total addressable market. These achievements helped drive a 34% year-over-year increase in fiscal 2022 revenue to $507 million. Our Industry Large, growing, and resilient market for pet products: According to the American Pet Products Association (APPA), annual spend on pets in the U.S. was $123.6 billion in 2021, an increase of $20 billion, or over 19%, compared to 2020. According to a 2020 Euromonitor International (Euromonitor International) report, pet carerelative to other industriesremained recession-resistant and even in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, many pet owners have been willing to cut back spending on themselves in favor of spending on their pets. 4 Table of Contents Dog ownership is growing quickly: According to the 2021-22 APPA Survey, dogs are the most popular pet in the U.S., with more than 69 million households having a dog as a member of their family. This reflects an increase of roughly 6 million, compared to 2020. Out of those 69 million U.S. dog households, we are serving approximately 2.3 million dog households as of March 31, 2022. We believe we have an opportunity to significantly expand our customer base, both in the U.S. and globally. An accelerating shift to digital and e-commerce: E-commerce sales continue to grow faster than the overall retail sales market and are increasingly taking significant share from brick-and-mortar retail. Sales of dog-related products have mirrored this trend as dog owners, increasingly shift a greater share of their dog-related purchasing to online options and subscription-based offerings across all categories. The pet food category has been a major driver of this channel shift. According to Packaged Facts, an estimated 37% of all pet food sales occurred online in 2021, as compared to 32% in 2020. By 2025, Packaged Facts estimate roughly 55% of all U.S. pet sales will occur online. Our Segments and Products We operate two business segments across the play, food, health, and home categories: direct to consumer and commerce. Our direct-to-consumer business, which is primarily comprised of subscription-based products delivered on a monthly basis, drives the majority of our revenues and represented 88.3% of total revenue in fiscal 2022. Our commerce business, which reflects the sale of BARK products in retail stores and other e-tailers, significantly broadens our customer reach and raises awareness for the BARK brand. The Company has executed agreements that will bring BARK products to over 40,000 retail doors, including Target, Costco, Walmart, Petco, and Petsmart. This segment represented 11.7% of our total revenue in fiscal 2022. Our Key Products: Barkbox and Super Chewer (Play Category) These subscription products feature monthly themed boxes of premium-quality BARK toys and treats that are delivered directly to a dogs home. Subscribers have the option to increase the number of toys and treats or add incremental products each month through our monthly Add-to-Box (ATB) offering. We also offer the toys and treats included in subscription boxes as individual SKUs through our website BarkShop.com (BarkShop) as well as through BARKs retail partners. As of March 31, 2022, BARK serves 2.3 million Active Subscribers, representing hundreds of thousands of customer-tailored boxes each month. BARK Food (Food Category)BARK Food is our personalized monthly meal plan serving the $35 billion-plus dog food segment. By leveraging our strong customer relationships, growing data set, and in-house vet nutritionists, BARK is able to create personalized meal plans through a blend of base kibbles, toppers, and supplements. Our in-house vet nutritionists help curate meal plans based on breed, age, weight, and other dietary needs to ensure we serve each dog as an individual; the same approach that made BarkBox and Super Chewer a success. We believe that innovation in the dog food market has been scarce and is ripe for disruption. Historically, personalization at scale has not been feasible; there is not enough retail shelf space to serve each dog as an individual. We believe we are the first digitally-native, direct-to-consumer brand that offers a personalized, adjustable, and customizable monthly dog food service at a mass-market price point. Further, we believe that the value proposition of BARK Food will appeal broadly to dog parents. BARK Bright (Health Category)BARK Bright is the first product in our health category. BARK Bright is a unique dental product that combines a proprietary triple-enzymatic gel, developed in partnership with Novozymes Bio Ag, with a delicious treat-like dental stick. BARK Bright eliminates the arduous task of brushing a dogs teeth while still effectively fighting germs and bad breath. Our BARK Bright dental kit provides an innovative regimen for dog dental care, and is available through monthly subscriptions, ATB, individually on Barkshop, and through certain retail partnerships. 5 Table of Contents BARK Home (Home Category)BARK Home offers dog parents a variety of products for daily life, including dog beds, bowls, collars, harnesses, and leashes. We sell BARK Home products through our website BarkShop.com and through certain retail partners. We also sell a combination of our toys and treats, BARK Bright, and BARK Home products through our network of retail partners. We also collaborate with, and make products for other brands such as Disney, Warner Bros, Universal Studios, the NBA, and more. Our Strengths Ever-Growing Data Drives Personalization at Scale: We know the names, age, breed, birthdays, play style, allergies, and more for over 6 million dogs. We believe that this is a key competitive advantage as it enables us to deliver highly personalized products and experiences for each and every dog that we serve. We are able to tailor our products to each customer by collecting proprietary product and customer data with each interaction. We also leverage our machine learning technology and first-party data set to compare dogs attributes against our available inventory when recommending products for purchase via cross-selling or ATB. In addition, we believe that personalization requires more than curation. We apply our data-driven customization approach to our product design and development as well, so that our products themselves, and not just our recommendations, are tailored to meet particular dog attributes that have been expressed to us. Deep Customer Relations Drive Retention and Lifetime Value: Our strong customer relationships are at the heart of what we do. Our customer service teamthe Happy Teamproactively engages over 250,000 customers each month. We get to know their dogs preferences based on breed, size, age, play style, allergies, and more. This allows us to personalize our products and experiences for each customer, which we believe drives stronger retention and lifetime value. Vertically Integrated: All of our products are designed, developed, and branded BARK, which drives higher margins. We believe that our data and insights have enabled us to design and make superior products for dogs as well as to create new products that dogs and their dog parents love. By employing an in-house team of world-class designers to design our products and having them made exclusively for us, rather than selling third-party products, we have created a collection of high-quality and unique, and cleverly-themed products, with strong brand association and higher potential for profitability. By designing our own products, we have the opportunity to achieve higher price points, therefore expanding our gross margins. Omnichannel: While the majority of our revenues are driven by our DTC business, we derived $59 million, or 11.7% of our revenues from the sale of BARK products in retail stores and other e-tailers in fiscal 2022. The Company has executed agreements that will bring BARK products to over 40,000 retail doors, including Target, Costco, Walmart, Petco, and Petsmart. We believe that these partnerships significantly broaden our customer reach and raise awareness for the BARK brand. We believe that this business also serves to introduce first-time customers to BARK who later become loyal subscribers of our DTC business. Growth Opportunities We strive to be a dog parents partner from those first days with a puppy throughout their dogs entire adult life. BARK seeks to be there every step of the way serving dogs needs in Play, Food, Health, and Home. Our ambition is to grow BARK to be the worlds favorite dog brand. We are focused on several key areas that we believe will be significant drivers to our business, long-term. 6 Table of Contents New Product Categories Expected to Grow Customer Base and Lifetime Value: We believe the food and health categories afford us a significant opportunity to expand our customer base, increase AOV, and improve customer retention, long-term. We are approaching food and health with a similar playbook that made BarkBox and Super Chewer so successfulby treating each dog as an individual and creating personalized experiences for each of them. With roughly 6 million current and former customers, we know the names, ages, breeds, play-style, allergies, and more for more than 6 million dogs. We believe that this data and our strong customer relationships afford us a unique opportunity to win market share in categories like food and health. We believe that innovation and personalization in these categories have historically been scarce, as there isnt enough retail shelf space to serve each dog individually, and, most dog food companies dont get to know your dog at checkout. We believe our DTC approach, coupled with our valuable data and strong customer relationships will enable us to win a share in these categories. Unified Customer Experience Expected to Enhance Cross-Selling and Awareness: Historically, BARK operated five siloed businesses and customer experiences BarkBox, SuperChewer, BarkBright, BarkFood, and BarkShop. Each of these businesses had distinct websites, dashboards, and logins. Becoming BARK is focused on unifying our brand and the customer experience. This initiative will ensure that all of our current and prospective customers are made aware of our full suite of products. We also expect it to materially improve our cross-selling capabilities and ultimately enhance the overall experience that customers have with BARK. We also anticipate it will grow our average order value at an even faster pace. For example, BarkBox.com sees over 2 million unique visitors every month and, in the past, we offered them only toys & treats for their dogs. This is a huge opportunity. By simply offering dental, food, and other products to these visitors, along with an incentive to try something new, we leverage the brand equity and exposure of BarkBox in a meaningful way. This is one simple way of cross-selling our products in these new product lines to accelerate our growth in these new categories. Our People and Culture The Team As dog people, BARK employees join the company because they are aligned with our mission to make all dogs happy. The work we are doing is inherently joyful, optimistic, and humorous because our primary customers, dogs, possess all of those characteristics. To that end, our company culture is centered around kindness, fairness, and a high level of ambition to serve all dogs and their humans. At the end of fiscal 2022, BARK employed approximately 643 full-time and part-time employees. Our employee population includes approximately 227 Bark Happy Ambassadors and their leadership, 96 engineers, data scientists, and technology staff, 93 designers and creative team members, 102 operations and fulfillment center employees, and 125 marketing, general, and administrative employees. As of March 31, 2022, 65% of our employees, 36% of our management team, and 33% of our Board of Directors identified as female or nonbinary. Employee Engagement Team communication is frequent and direct, allowing for a high level of transparency and feedback. We engage with employees through monthly pulse surveys to measure employee engagement, receive feedback, and respond to employee concerns effectively. We leverage these data points to continuously evolve our policies and practices to meet employee needs and align with BARK team values. Though most of the team has worked remotely since March 2020, we currently use our offices in New York, New York and Columbus, Ohio for regular team collaboration, all hands meetings, workshops and more. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At BARK, we recognize that people, like dogs, should be celebrated for their differences and the diverse life experiences they bring to work each day. We advocate for and celebrate a culture of inclusiveness for all people regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, family status, religion, ethnicity, national origin, physical ability, 7 Table of Contents veteran status, age, or love of cats as we work toward one common goal: to make every single dog as happy as they make us. We do this by focusing on four key areas: Diversity Sourcing & Recruitment: Promote an inclusive approach to hiring diverse talent by focusing on the equity of recruiting processes in addition to sourcing pools. Continuous Learning & Communication: Make diversity and inclusion everyones responsibility by providing training and educational opportunities. Employee Resource Groups: Provide employees with opportunities and resources to build a shared, supportive community while also advancing the teams Diversity Equity and Inclusion mission. Accountability: Ensure accountability while committing to focus on retention, advancement, and equity. BARK is committed to paying employees fairly for their work. Our Total Rewards team determines and regularly reviews all compensation based on a leveling and benchmarking system guided by market insights from third-party experts and tools. On a quarterly basis, we review all grants of equity for parity across gender and race to ensure that we are taking a consistent approach to compensation for all team members based on market data, role, and level. Manufacturing BARK purchases substantially all of its merchandise directly from third-party manufacturers, who typically manufacture the products exclusively for BARK. Some of these vendors operate their own manufacturing facilities and others subcontract the manufacturing to other parties. BARKs manufacturers generally agree to terms that are substantially similar to its standard manufacturer terms, which govern its business relationships. Although we do not have long-term agreements with our vendors, BARK has long-standing relationships with a diverse base of vendors that BARK believes to be mutually satisfactory. These vendors are located in multiple countries, which we believe helps mitigate our supply chain risk. All of our exclusive products are required to be produced according to BARKs specifications, and our manufacturers warrant that such products will perform in accordance with BARKs specifications. Our manufacturing and supplier contracts are generally on year-to-year terms and provide BARK with the additional right to terminate the agreement for uncured material breaches within thirty days. We require that all of our manufacturers comply with applicable laws and BARK generally has the right to audit the suppliers facilities. Distribution and Inventory Management BARK currently utilizes global third-party logistics providers to warehouse and distribute finished products from its distribution facilities to support its domestic operations. These logistics providers manage various distribution activities including product receipt, warehousing, assembly, certain limited product inspection activities, and coordinating outbound shipping. BARK manages its inventory levels by analyzing product sell-through, forecasting demand, analyzing product ratings, and placing orders with our manufacturers before BARK receives firm orders from customers to ensure sufficient availability. Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property We believe that our rights to our intellectual property, including trademarks and domain names, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology, are important to our marketing efforts to develop brand recognition and differentiate our brand from competitors. BARK owns a number of trademarks that have been registered, or for which registration applications are pending, in the United States as well as in certain foreign jurisdictions. These registered or pending trademarks include, among others, Bark, BARKBox, BARK Bright, BARK Food, BARK Essentials, BARK Super Chewer, Super Chewer, BARKPOST, Destroyers, Destroyers Club, and Dog People Get It. The current registrations of these trademarks are effective for varying periods of time and may be renewed periodically, provided that we, as the 8 Table of Contents registered owner, or our licensees where applicable, comply with all applicable renewal requirements including, where necessary, the continued use of the trademarks in connection with similar goods. We expect to pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe such registrations would be beneficial and cost-effective. In addition to trademark protection, we own numerous domain names, including www.barkbox.com, www.bark.co, and www.barkshop.com. We also enter into, and rely on, confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and business partners to protect our trade secrets, proprietary technology and other confidential information. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both customer terms of use on our website and in agreements with our vendors. We believe that our intellectual property has substantial value and has significantly contributed to BARKs success to date. We continually engage with manufacturers to develop and market better quality dog products under our brand names to better serve our customers at a lower price. Competition The dog products industry is highly competitive, fragmented, and spread across four primary segments: supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and mass merchants; specialty pet store chains; traditional or neighborhood pet stores; and subscription service businesses and e-tailers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in BARKs market are product selection and quality, customer service, price, brand awareness and loyalty, reliability and trust, convenience, and speed at which orders are delivered to our customers. We believe that BARK differentiates itself from our competitors by the strength of our brand, customer relationships and engagement, proprietary branded products, data-driven design and marketing, and achieving a high level of performance with regard to these competitive factors. Dog food, in particular, is a highly competitive industry. BARK Food competes with manufacturers of conventional dog food, such as Mars, Nestl, and Big Heart Pet Brands (part of The J.M. Smucker Company). It also competes with specialty and natural pet food manufacturers such as FreshPet, Colgate-Palmolive, and General Mills. In addition, BARK Food competes with many regional niche brands in individual geographic markets. Given a North American retail landscape dominated by large retailers, with limited shelf space and a significant number of competing products, competitors actively support their brands through marketing, advertising, promotional spending, and discounting. Competitive factors in the dog food industry include product quality, ingredients, brand awareness and loyalty, product variety, product packaging and design, reputation, price, advertising, promotion, and nutritional claims. We believe that we have a competitive advantage given the digital nature of our business and our ability to personalize meal plans for each dog that we serve. The dog health and wellness industry is also highly competitive. BARK Bright competes directly and indirectly with both manufacturers and distributors of pet health and wellness products and online distributors, as well as with veterinarians. BARK Bright directly faces competition from companies that distribute various pet health and wellness products to traditional retailers such as Bayer AG, Central Garden, and Pet Company, Hartz (Unicharm Corp.), Mars, Inc., Manna Pro, Nestl S.A., Spectrum Holdings, Promika LLC, Tevra Brands, and The J.M. Smucker Company, which are larger than BARK and have greater financial resources. Similarly, BARK Bright faces intense competition from manufacturers who sell dog health and wellness products to e-commerce and other retailers and to veterinarians. We believe we have a competitive advantage with our BARK Bright product as our approach of combining an enzymatic gel, with a hard chew provides better results than many other products on the market. 9 Table of Contents Government Regulation Our business is subject to foreign and domestic laws and regulations applicable to companies conducting business on the Internet. Jurisdictions vary as to how, or whether, existing laws governing areas such as personal privacy and data security, consumer protection or sales, and other taxes, among other areas, apply to the Internet and e-commerce, and these laws are continually evolving. Related laws may govern the manner in which we store or transfer sensitive information, or impose obligations on us in the event of a security breach or an inadvertent disclosure of such information. International jurisdictions impose different, and sometimes more stringent, consumer and privacy protections. Additionally, tax regulations in jurisdictions where we do not currently collect state or local taxes may subject us to the obligation to collect and remit such taxes, or to additional taxes, or to requirements intended to assist jurisdictions with their tax collection efforts. New legislation or regulations, the application of laws from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and e-commerce generally could result in significant additional taxes on our business. Further, we could be subject to fines or other payments for any past failures to comply with these requirements. The continued growth of and demand for e-commerce is likely to result in more laws and regulations that impose additional compliance burdens on e-commerce companies. In addition, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations intended to protect public health, natural resources and the environment. Our operations, including our manufacturing outsourcing partners, are subject to regulation by OSHA, the FDA, the USDA, and by various other federal, state, local, and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and import of its products, including food safety standards. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks not known to us or that we consider immaterial as of the date of this annual report on form 10-K. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and, as a result, you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This annual report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below. See "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Related to Our Strategy Our future operating performance is subject to numerous challenges and uncertainties. Our recent rapid growth may not be indicative of our future operating performance, which will depend on our ability to leverage our competitive strengths and execute on our strategy. Our competitive strengths include: our proprietary product and customer data; strong customer relationships; vertically integrated design, development and manufacturing of our products; and omnichannel approach including both direct to consumer and retail sales. Our strategy is to expand into new product categories, in particular the food category; create a unified customer experience; and focus on the path to profitability. Our ability to leverage our competitive strengths and execute on our strategy is subject to numerous challenges and uncertainties including, but not limited to the following: costs or other issues with acquiring new customers and retaining existing customers; adverse impacts on shipping and fulfillment services and costs; changes in trends and consumer preferences; interruptions in our business due to technology failures, cybersecurity breaches or labor shortages; our ability to retain existing suppliers and attract new suppliers and scale our supply chain; 10 Table of Contents our ability to develop a unified, scalable, high-performance technology and fulfillment infrastructure; our ability to hire and retain talented, experienced people at all levels of our organization; impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic; and changes in the macro-economic environment, such as inflation, instability in the financial markets, changes in the labor markets, and political, economic and social instability, such as war in the Ukraine, in particular as such changes impact consumer discretionary spending. If we fail meet the challenges or navigate the uncertainties described above, as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We may fail to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner. In order to expand our customer base, we must appeal to customers who have historically purchased their dog products from other retailers, such as traditional brick and mortar retailers or the websites of our competitors. While we believe that many of our new customers originate from word-of-mouth and other non-paid referrals from our current customers, we have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments to acquire new customers. We must be able to appropriately, effectively and efficiently allocate our marketing for multiple products, including: accurately identifying, targeting and reaching our audience of current and potential customers with our marketing messages; selecting the right marketplace, media and specific media vehicle in which to advertise; adapting quickly to changes in the algorithmic logic, privacy policies, and other procedures used by search engines, social media platforms and other third party platforms; identifying the most effective and efficient level of spending in each marketplace, media and specific media vehicle; determining the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; managing marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable subscriber and customer acquisition costs; differentiating our products as compared to other products; creating greater brand awareness; driving traffic to our website, and websites of our retail partners and adapting our marketing tactics as e-commerce, search, and social networking evolve. Also, search engines, social media platforms frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a users search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our website can be negatively affected. Moreover, a search engine or social media platform could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results, causing our website to place lower in search query results. In addition, social networking and e-commerce channels continue to rapidly evolve, including with regard to their policies and procedures, and we may be unable to cost-effectively develop or maintain a presence within these channels. If the costs of acquiring new customers exceeds our expectations, we may not be able to acquire the necessary number of customers who purchase products in volumes sufficient to grow our business and generate the scale necessary to achieve operational efficiency and/or our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to maintain a high level of customer engagement or protect our brand and reputation. Our strong customer relationships and our brand and reputation are the basis for the high-level customer engagement that drives increases to our average order volume and our overall growth. A significant portion of our revenue is recurring revenue from subscription customers, especially those customers who are highly engaged and purchase our add-to-box offerings or our other offerings, such as BARK Food and BARK Bright. Maintaining and protecting our brand and reputation depends largely on our ability to provide our customers with an engaging and personalized customer experience, including valued services, high-quality merchandise, appropriate prices and highly-trained customer support representatives. Customer complaints or negative reviews or publicity about our products, services, merchandise, monthly themes, delivery times, or customer support, especially on social media platforms, could harm our brand and reputation and diminish customer use of our services and the trust that our customers place in us. Also, if our customers no longer find our products appealing or appropriately priced, they may make fewer purchases and may cancel their subscriptions or stop purchasing products. Even if our existing customers continue to find our offerings appealing, they may decide to reduce their subscription and purchase less merchandise over time as their interest in new dog products declines. Failure to maintain our high level of engagement and protect our brand and reputation with our customers would cause our revenue to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to accurately predict consumer trends, successfully introduce new products, improve existing products, or expand into new offerings. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to successfully introduce new products to our existing BarkBox and Super Chewer subscriptions and to introduce new product lines, including BARK Home (everyday products), BARK Bright (dental, health and wellness), and BARK Food (personalized food blend), and to improve and reposition our existing products to meet the requirements of our customers and the needs of their dogs. To be successful, we must accurately predict and respond to evolving consumer trends, demands and preferences, including predicting monthly themes for our BarkBox and Super Chewer subscriptions that will resonate with subscribers and customers as timely and clever. The development and introduction of new products and expansion into new offerings also involves considerable costs. Any new product or offering may not generate sufficient customer interest to become a profitable product or to cover the costs of its development and promotion and could result in a decrease in customer retention, a reduction in purchases or negatively affect our brand and reputation. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, develop or market products, or create new offerings, that respond to changes in requirements and preferences, or if our new product introductions, repositioned products, or new offerings fail to gain consumer acceptance, we may be unable to grow our business as anticipated, or our revenue, margins and profitability may decline or not improve, which could materially adversely effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our key employees and our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel and senior management. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent on the services of our senior management and other key personnel. In addition, our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. The market for such positions is competitive, in particular, due to the labor market effects from the COVID-19 pandemic. Qualified individuals are in high demand and we may incur significant costs to attract them. In addition, the loss of any of our senior management or other key employees or our inability to recruit and develop mid-level managers could impede our ability to execute our business plan and we may be unable to find adequate replacements. All of our employees are at-will employees, meaning that they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry could be extremely difficult to replace. If we fail to retain talented senior management and other key personnel, or if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face challenges due to our reliance on third party sales channels to sell and distribute our products. We sell some of our products through a network of retailers and e-tailers (together with our direct sales channel). Our products are available through Amazon.com as well as in retail locations including Target, Petco, PetSmart, Costco, Walmart and CVS, and many others. We depend on these indirect sales channel partners to distribute and sell our products to dog parents, which subjects us to a number of challenges, including: The sales and business practices, reputation or failure to comply with laws and regulations, of or by our sales channel partners, of which we may or may not be aware, may affect our business and reputation; Adverse changes in our relationships with our sales channel partners could impact sales of our products; Economic conditions, labor issues, natural disasters, regional or global pandemics, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns of our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption; Our sales channel partners also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors; Certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer, and certain of our third-party e-commerce partners could change their algorithmic logic, policies or procedures making our products harder for customers to find or remove them from e-commerce sites altogether; and We must build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models as we expand new product categories and markets, which may require significant management attention 12 Table of Contents and operational resources and may affect our accounting, including revenue recognition, gross margins, and the ability to make comparisons from period to period. If we fail to effectively meet the challenges described above our business and future operating results will be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Macro-Economic Environment We rely on consumer discretionary spending, which may be adversely affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends. Our business depends on consumer discretionary spending. Some of the factors that may negatively influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment; higher consumer debt levels; reductions in net worth, declines in asset values, and related market uncertainty; home foreclosures and reductions in home values; fluctuating interest rates and credit availability; global pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the loosening of restrictions as the pandemic conditions improve; fluctuating fuel and other energy costs; fluctuating commodity prices; the high rate of inflation and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment. Furthermore, any increases in consumer discretionary spending during times of crisis may be temporary, such as those related to government stimulus programs or remote-work environments, and consumer spending may decrease when those programs or circumstances end. In addition, economic conditions in certain regions may be affected by natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, and wildfires; other public health crises; and other major unforeseen events. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the merchandise that we offer, generally decline during recessionary periods or periods of economic uncertainty, when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. Any decline in consumer discretionary spending could negatively impact our revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be impacted by the COVID-19 global pandemic and related government, private sector and individual consumer responses. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the global supply chain and may cause disruptions to our operations. Additional federal or state mandates ordering the shutdown of non-essential businesses could also impact our ability to take or fulfill our subscribers or customers orders and operate our business. Many of our personnel are working remotely, which could have a negative impact on the execution of our business plans and operations. Our offices are currently open on a limited basis as allowed under state and local orders. While we have implemented what we believe to be a comprehensive protocol to ensure the safety and well-being of employees returning to the office, including daily health screenings, physical changes to our floor layout, and required proper personal protection equipment, these measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus or otherwise be satisfactory to government authorities. Natural disasters, power outages, connectivity issues, or other events that impact our employees ability to work remotely, could disrupt business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in consumer privacy, IT security and fraud concerns as well as increase our exposure to potential wage and hour issues. Operations of our fulfillment centers may be substantially disrupted by additional federal or state mandates ordering shutdowns of non-essential services or by the inability of our employees to travel to work. Our plans to open new fulfillment centers or to expand the capacity of our existing fulfillment centers over the next few years may also be delayed or be more costly. Uncertainty and unpredictability around the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated business disruptions and the extent of the spread of the virus in the United States and to other areas of the world continues to adversely impact national and global economies and could continue to negatively impact consumer spending on which we rely. While conditions appear to be improving, we are still unable to predict whether the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Manufacturing, Inventory and Supply Chain Our business critically relies on a limited number of suppliers, manufacturers, and logistics partners. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers, suppliers and logistics providers to manufacture and transport our products. We do not currently have alternative or replacement providers and we do not generally maintain long-term supply contracts with any of these providers. We face a number of risks relating to these providers, including: 13 Table of Contents Our suppliers, manufacturers or logistics partners could be impacted by a natural disaster, an epidemic such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, or other interruptions at a particular location; Our manufacturers and suppliers are primarily located in Asia, which introduces risks related to geopolitical developments and differences in regulatory standards and legal systems; Our existing supply channels may not be able to satisfy a significant increase in demand for our products, or we may need to replace an existing manufacturer or supplier. It could take a significant amount of time to identify a manufacturer or supplier that has the capability and resources to manufacture our products to our specifications in sufficient volume, and with acceptable quality control, technical capabilities, responsiveness and service, financial stability, regulatory compliance, and labor and other ethical practices; Our current product purchases are centralized among a few manufacturers and suppliers to realize substantial cost savings, which exposes us to credit and other risks, including insolvency, financial difficulties, supply chain delays or other factors may result in our manufacturers or suppliers not being able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us; and We have signed a number of contracts whose performance depends upon third party suppliers delivering products on schedule to meet our contractual commitments. Concentration in the number of our manufacturers and suppliers could lead to delays in the delivery of products or components, and possible resultant breaches of contracts that we have entered into with our customers; increases in the prices we must pay for products; problems with product quality; and other concerns. Any of the above risks could delay delivery of our products to customers in a timely and cost effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face challenges due to limited control over our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and logistics partners. We have limited control over our suppliers, contract manufacturers, and logistics partners, which subjects us to the following risks, many of which have materialized due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including: failure to satisfy demand for our products; reduced control over delivery timing, product reliability, the manufacturing process and components used in our products; limited ability to develop comprehensive manufacturing specifications that take into account any materials shortages or substitutions; variance in the manufacturing capability of our third-party manufacturers; price increases; failure of a significant supplier, manufacturer, or logistics partner to perform its obligations for technical, market, or other reasons; misappropriation of our intellectual property; changes in local economic conditions in the jurisdictions where our suppliers, manufacturers, and logistics partners are located; the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to labor conditions, quality and safety standards, imports, duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges on imports, as well as trade restrictions and restrictions on currency exchange or the transfer of funds; and insufficient warranties and indemnities on components supplied to our manufacturers or performance by our partners. If we fail to meet the challenges described above, our business and future operating results will be materially adversely affected. Shipping, which is subject to numerous risks, is a critical part of our business. We currently rely on third-party national, regional and local logistics providers to deliver our products. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable pricing and other terms with these providers, or these providers may experience performance problems or other difficulties in processing our orders or delivering our products to customers. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship merchandise to customers may be negatively affected by factors beyond our and these providers control, including inclement weather, natural disasters, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, pandemics, acts of war or terrorism or other events specifically impacting our or other shipping partners, such as labor disputes, financial difficulties, system failures and other disruptions to the operations of the shipping companies on which we rely. We are also subject to risks of damage or loss during delivery by our shipping vendors. If the products ordered by our subscribers or customers are not delivered in a timely fashion or are damaged or lost during the delivery process, our subscribers or customers could become dissatisfied and cease buying products. Further, due to the continuing spread of COVID-19 and related governmental work and travel restrictions, there may be disruptions and delays in national, regional and local shipping, which may negatively impact our subscribers and customers experience. Changes to the terms of our shipping arrangements and delays or failures in delivery of our products may have a material adverse affect on our margins and profitability, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to manage the complexities created by our omni channel operations. Our omnichannel operations, such as offering our products through our website, on third party websites and in traditional brick and mortar stores, create additional complexities in our ability to manage inventory levels, as well as certain operational issues, including timely shipping and refunds. Accordingly, our success depends to a large degree on continually evolving the processes and technology that enable us to plan and manage inventory levels and fulfill orders, address any related operational issues and further align channels to optimize our omnichannel operations. If we are unable to successfully manage these complexities, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. If we are unable to implement appropriate systems, procedures and controls, we may not be able to successfully offer our products, grow our business and account for transactions in an appropriate and timely manner. Our ability to successfully offer our products, grow our business and account for transactions in an appropriate and timely manner requires an effective planning and management process and certain other automated management and accounting systems. We currently do not have an integrated enterprise resource planning system and certain other automated management and accounting systems. We periodically update our operations and financial systems, procedures and controls; however; our current procedures that may not scale proportionately with our business growth or with becoming a public company. Our systems will continue to require automation, modifications and improvements to respond to current and future changes in our business. Failure to implement in a timely manner appropriate internal systems, procedures and controls could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully optimize, operate and manage our fulfillment centers and shipping services. If we do not optimize and operate our fulfillment centers and shipping services successfully and efficiently, it could result in excess or insufficient fulfillment capacity, an increase in costs or impairment charges or harm to our business in other ways. In addition, if we do not have sufficient fulfillment or shipping capacity or experience a problem fulfilling or shipping orders in a timely manner, our customers may experience delays in receiving their purchases, which could harm our reputation and our relationship with our customers. We also anticipate the need to add additional fulfillment center and shipping capacity as our business continues to grow. We may not be able to locate suitable facilities or services on commercially acceptable terms in accordance with our expansion plans, or recruit qualified managerial and operational supply personnel to support our expansion plans. If we are unable to secure new facilities for the expansion of our fulfillment and shipping operations, recruit qualified personnel to support any such facilities, or effectively control expansion-related expenses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to Our Industry Our estimate of the size of our addressable market may prove to be inaccurate. Data for retail sales of dog products is collected for most, but not all channels, and as a result, it is difficult to accurately estimate the size of the market and predict with certainty the rate at which the market for our products will grow, if at all. While our market size estimate was made in good faith and is based on assumptions and estimates we believe to be reasonable, this estimate may not be accurate. If our estimates of the size of our addressable market are not accurate, our potential for future growth may be less than we currently anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively in the dog products and services retail industry. The dog products and services retail industry, in particular on the Internet, is highly competitive and we expect this competition to continue to increase. We compete with pet product retail stores, supermarkets, warehouse clubs and other mass and general retail and online merchandisers. We also compete with a number of specialty dog supply stores and independent dog stores, catalog retailers and other specialty e-tailers. As we expand our offerings, such as our BARK Food line, we will face additional competition. In the dog food category, there are numerous brands and products that compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily upon brand recognition and loyalty, product packaging, quality and innovation, taste, nutrition, breadth of product line, price and convenience. Many of these current competitors have, and potential competitors may have, longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger fulfillment infrastructures, greater technical capabilities, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do, allowing our competitors to derive greater net 15 Table of Contents sales and profits from their existing customer base, acquire customers at lower costs or respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in consumer preferences or habits. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies (including but not limited to predatory pricing policies and the provision of substantial discounts), allowing them to build larger customer bases or generate gross profit from their customer bases more effectively than we do. Current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. If we fail to compete effectively, or are required to offer promotions and other incentives or adopt more aggressive pricing strategies, our operating margins could decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Information Technology and Cybersecurity We are subject to risks related to online payment methods. We currently accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, PayPal and gift cards. As we offer new payment options to subscribers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, fraud and other risks. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Furthermore, as our business changes, we may be subject to different rules under existing standards, which may require new assessments that involve costs above what we currently pay for compliance. In the future, as we offer new payment options to subscribers, including by way of integrating emerging mobile and other payment methods, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud. If we fail to comply with the rules or requirements of any provider of a payment method we accept, if the volume of fraud in our transactions limits or terminates our rights to use payment methods we currently accept, or if a data breach occurs relating to our payment systems, we may, among other things, be subject to fines or higher transaction fees and may lose, or face restrictions placed upon, our ability to accept credit card payments from subscribers or facilitate other types of online payments. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely on software-as-a-service (SaaS) technologies from third parties. We rely on SaaS technologies from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including financial management services, credit card processing, customer relationship management services, supply chain services and data storage services. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, or for any other reason, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage our finances could be interrupted, our processes for managing sales of our offerings and supporting our customers could be impaired, our ability to communicate with our suppliers could be weakened and our ability to access or save data stored to the cloud may be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and implemented. We are also subject to certain standard terms and conditions with these providers, who have broad discretion to change their terms of service and other policies with respect to us, which may be unfavorable. Any failure to maintain successful partnerships with our SaaS providers could impact our success and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Limitations on our use of cookies may impact our ability to cost-effectively acquire new customers. Federal and state governmental authorities continue to evaluate the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party cookies and other methods of online tracking for behavioral advertising and other purposes. The U.S. government has enacted, or has considered or is considering legislation or regulations that could significantly restrict the ability of companies and individuals to engage in these activities, such as by regulating the level of consumer notice and consent required before a company can employ cookies or other electronic tracking tools or the use of data gathered with such tools. Additionally, some providers of consumer devices and web browsers have implemented, or announced plans to implement, means to make it easier for Internet users to prevent the placement of cookies or to block other tracking technologies, which if widely adopted could result in making cookies and other methods of online tracking significantly less effective. This regulation of the use of these cookies and other current online tracking and advertising practices or the loss of our ability to make effective use of services that employ such 16 Table of Contents technologies could increase limit our ability to acquire new customers on cost-effective terms, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to maintain and scale our technology. Our reputation and ability to acquire, retain and serve our customers depends on the reliable performance of our website and mobile application and our underlying network infrastructure. As our subscriber and customer base and the amount of information shared on our website and mobile application continue to grow, we will need an increasing amount of network capacity and computing power. The operation of these systems is complex and could result in operational failures. Interruptions or delays in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, undetected errors, design faults or other unexpected events or causes, could affect the security or availability of our website and mobile application and prevent our customers from accessing our website and mobile application. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, the costs and complexities involved in expanding and upgrading our systems may prevent us from doing so in a timely manner and may prevent us from adequately meeting the demand placed on our systems. Any web or mobile platform interruption or inadequacy that causes performance issues or interruptions in the availability of our website or mobile application could reduce consumer satisfaction and result in a reduction in the number of customers using our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our disaster recovery arrangements may be insufficient. The occurrence of a natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, data loss, computer virus, an act of terrorism, cyberattack, vandalism or sabotage, act of war or any similar event, or a decision to close the third-party data centers on which we normally operate or the facilities of any other third-party provider without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our website and mobile application. Cloud computing, in particular, is dependent upon having access to an Internet connection in order to retrieve data. If a natural disaster, pandemic (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), blackout or other unforeseen event were to occur that disrupted our ability to obtain an Internet connection, we may experience a slowdown or delay in our operations. While we have some limited disaster recovery arrangements in place, our preparations may not be adequate to account for disasters or similar events that may occur in the future and may not effectively permit us to continue operating in the event of any problems with respect to our systems or those of our third-party data centers or any other third-party facilities. Our disaster recovery and data redundancy plans may be inadequate, and our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for the losses that could occur. If any such event were to occur to our business, our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The security of our partners computer networks and databases containing personal information may be compromised. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our vendors collect, process, and store certain personal information and other data relating to individuals, such as our subscribers, customers and employees, including subscriber and customer payment card information. We rely substantially on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for our processing, transmission, and storage of personal information and other confidential information. We, or our vendors, may suffer a data compromise from hackers or other unauthorized parties who gain access to personal information or other data, including payment card data or confidential business information, which may not be discovered in a timely fashion. In addition, cyber-attacks such as ransomware attacks could lock us out of our information systems and disrupt our operations. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, and we, and our vendors, may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. As our business partners move to remote work due to the COVID-19 pandemic, they may be more vulnerable to cyber-attacks. In addition, our vendors, or other third parties with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent security measures in order to misappropriate personal information, confidential information, or other data, or may inadvertently release or compromise such data. Compromise of our data security by third parties with whom we do business, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information, and delays in detecting or providing prompt notice of any such compromise or loss may 17 Table of Contents disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and subject us to litigation, government action, or other additional costs and liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection, agreements and other methods with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country and the protection of our intellectual property rights may require significant financial, managerial and operational expenditures. In addition, our efforts may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property rights and any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. Our patent and trademark applications may never be granted and the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. We may be unable to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, these patents may not adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of patent protection are uncertain. In addition, others may independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology. Our confidentiality agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, technologies and processes and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and we may be unable to discover or determine the extent of any infringement, misappropriation or other violation of our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights or costs associated with such protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations. Third parties have from time to time claimed, and may claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. These claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in considerable litigation costs, result in injunctions against us or the payment of damages or royalties by us, require significant amounts of management time or result in the diversion of significant operational resources and expensive changes to our business model. In addition, we may be unable to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. Any payments we are required to make and any injunctions against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Legal Proceedings We are subject to federal and state and foreign laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, advertising and consumer protection. We rely on a variety of marketing techniques, including email and social media marketing and postal mailings, which are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. A variety of federal and state laws and regulations also govern our collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data, particularly in the context of the online advertising that we rely on to attract new customers. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations, in particular from one jurisdiction to another, and may conflict with other laws and regulations. In addition, various federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies, or self-regulatory organizations, may expand current laws or regulations, enact new laws or regulations or issue revised rules or guidance regarding privacy, data protection, consumer protection, and advertising. For example, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA), which requires companies that process information on California residents make new disclosures to customers about the collection of their data, use and sharing practices, and allow customers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties and provide a new cause of action for data breaches. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA) significantly amends the CCPA and imposes additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It also creates a new California data protection agency specifically tasked to enforce the law, which could result in increased regulatory scrutiny of businesses in the areas of data protection and security. Similar laws have been proposed in other states and at the 18 Table of Contents federal level, and if passed, such laws may have potentially conflicting requirements that could make compliance challenging. Our practices and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations may not always be effective, particularly as the legal landscape continues to evolve. In addition, some of our internal processes are manual, which could result in employee error and internal compliance failures. Any failure, or perceived failure, to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any federal or state privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations, industry self-regulatory principles, industry standards or codes of conduct, regulatory guidance, orders to which we may be subject or other legal obligations relating to privacy or consumer protection could adversely affect our reputation, brand and business, and may result in claims, liabilities, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities, subscribers, customers, suppliers or others, or may require us to change our operations and/or cease using certain data. Any such claims, proceedings or actions could further harm our reputation and brand, force us to incur significant expenses in defense of such proceedings or actions, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business, result in a loss of subscribers, customers and suppliers and result in the imposition of monetary penalties. We may also be contractually required to indemnify and hold harmless third parties from the costs or consequences of our non-compliance with any laws, regulations or other legal obligations relating to privacy or consumer protection or any inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure of data that we store or handle as part of operating our business. Any harm to our reputation or brand, being subject of regulatory action and incurring related fees, distraction of our management and loss of customers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to product safety, labor, or other laws. The products we sell to our customers are subject to regulation by the Federal Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and similar state and international regulatory authorities. As such, our products could be subject to recalls and other remedial actions. Product safety, labeling, and licensing concerns may result in our voluntarily removing selected products from our inventory. Recalls or voluntary removal of products can result in, among other things, lost sales, diverted resources, potential harm to our reputation, increased customer service costs and legal expenses. In addition, some of the merchandise we sell may expose us to product liability claims, litigation or regulatory actions. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors may not indemnify us from product liability for a particular vendors merchandise or our vendors may not have sufficient resources or insurance to satisfy their indemnity and defense obligations. In addition, failure of our vendors to comply with applicable laws and regulations and contractual requirements could lead to litigation against us, resulting in increased legal expenses. Furthermore, the failure of any vendors to provide safe and humane factory conditions at their facilities could damage our reputation with our customers and result in legal claims against us. Our international relationships also require us to overcome logistical and other challenges based on differing languages, cultures, legal and regulatory schemes and time zones. Foreign labor laws, standards and customs may vary greatly from those in the U.S. The U.S. or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions that could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business in the countries in which we have relationships. The difficulties inherent in complying with labor, safety and other laws, or consequences resulting from any failure to comply with those laws could result in increased costs, disruptions in our relationships with our vendors, and harm to our brand and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations intended to protect public and worker health and safety, natural resources and the environment. Our operations, including our manufacturing partners, are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the Food and Drug Administration (the FDA), the Department of Agriculture (the USDA) and by various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products, including food safety standards. In addition, we and our manufacturing partners are subject to additional regulatory requirements, including environmental, health and safety laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety legislative and regulatory authorities and the National Labor Relations Board, covering such areas as discharges and emissions to air and water, the use, management, disposal and remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous 19 Table of Contents materials and wastes, and public and worker health and safety. Violations of, or liability under, any of these laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil or criminal fines, penalties or sanctions against us, revocation or modification of applicable permits, licenses or authorizations, environmental, health and safety investigations or remedial activities, voluntary or involuntary product recalls, warning or untitled letters or cease and desist orders against operations that are not in compliance, among other things. Such laws and regulations generally have become more stringent over time and may become more so in the future, and we may incur (directly, or indirectly through our manufacturing partners) material costs to comply with current or future laws and regulations or in any required product recalls. Complying with the current laws and regulations, and potential future changes to these laws and regulations, or failing to comply with these laws and regulations, could impose significant limitations and/or require changes to our business, which may involve substantial expenses, make our business more costly and less efficient to conduct, and compromise our growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Lawsuits and other administrative, regulatory, or legal proceedings that may arise in the course of our operations can involve substantial costs, including the costs associated with investigation, litigation and possible settlement, judgment, penalty or fine. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and companies have experienced fluctuations in their stock prices that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to their operating results. Under these circumstances, stockholders may sometimes institute securities class action litigation against such companies. Any litigation or other administrative, regulatory, or legal proceedings against us could result in substantial costs, and divert managements attention and resources. Although we generally maintain insurance to mitigate certain costs, there can be no assurance that costs associated with lawsuits or other legal proceedings will not exceed the limits of insurance policies. Moreover, we may be unable to continue to maintain our existing insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or to secure additional coverage, which may result in costs associated with lawsuits and other legal proceedings being uninsured. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if fees associated with lawsuits or other legal proceedings or a judgment, penalty or fine is not fully or partially covered by insurance. General Risk Related to Our Business We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the course of preparing our financial statements for fiscal year 2022, our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses include: (i) the insufficient review of account reconciliations for certain account balances; (ii) the lack of formalized processes and controls around inventory management; (iii) the improper accounting for the review of complex or non-routine transactions; and (iv) the lack of effective internal controls around change management and those internal controls that would restrict access to financial systems to appropriate users and ensure that appropriate segregation of duties is maintained. Specifically, certain change management controls were not adhered to, and certain personnel had access to financial applications, programs and data beyond that needed to perform their individual job responsibilities and without independent monitoring. In addition, certain financial personnel had incompatible duties which allowed for the creation, review and processing of certain financial data without independent review and authorization. The material weakness set forth in this (iv) affects substantially all financial statement accounts. We will not be able to fully remediate these material weaknesses until the appropriate steps have been completed and have been operating effectively for a sufficient period of time, see Item 9A -