Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated historical financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statement of operations data for the fiscal years ended 2020 and 2019 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 set forth below are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 30 December 31 Balance Sheet Data: 2020 2019 Working capital $ 5,970 $ 784 Total assets $ 12,284 $ 14,276 Total outstanding borrowings, net $ 8,287 $ 8,188 Total other long-term liabilities $ - $ 1,745 Stockholders equity $ 1,517 $ 2,227 December 31 Statement of Operation Data: 2020 2019 Revenues $ 29,202 $ 38,444 Gross profit $ 3,474 $ 4,069 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 4,462 $ 2,985 Operating income (loss) $ (988 ) $ 1,084 Interest income $ 8 $ - Interest Income from related parties 112 68 Interest expense $ (281 ) $ (438 ) Other expense $ (1 ) $ (206 ) Income (loss) before income taxes $ (1,150 ) $ 508 Income tax benefit (expense) $ 230 $ (156 ) Consolidated net income $ (920 ) $ 352 Non-consolidated interest in consolidated affiliates $ 131 $ (157 ) Net income (loss) $ (789 ) $ 195 December 31 Net Income (Loss) Per Share: 2020 2019 Net income (loss) per share basic $ - $ - Net income (loss) per share - diluted $ - $ - Weighted average shares outstanding basic 300,000,000 300,000,000 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 300,000,000 300,000,000 December 31 Other Financial Data: 2020 2019 OIBITDA (1) $ 658 $ 1,348 (1) We present OIBITDA as a measure that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP), in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to provide investors with a supplemental measure of our operating performance. We believe that OIBITDA is a useful performance measure and is employed by us to facilitate comparisons of our operating performance on a consistent basis from period-to-period and to provide for a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our core business than measures under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) can provide alone. Our board and management also use OIBITDA as some of the primary methods for planning and forecasting overall expected performance and for evaluating on a quarterly and annual basis actual result against such expectations, and as a performance evaluation metric in determining achievement of certain compensation programs and plans for our management and organization. 31 We define OIBITDA as operational earnings before interest expense, related party interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, loss on early extinguishment of debt and related party debt, transaction fees and costs related to our corporate overhead which consist mainly of costs associated with being a public company. Omitting interest, taxes and the other items provides a financial measure that facilitates comparisons of our results of operations with those of companies having different capital structures. Since the levels of indebtedness and tax structures that other companies have are different from ours, we omit these amounts to facilitate investors ability to make like comparisons. Similarly, we omit depreciation and amortization because many other companies likely employ a greater amount of property and intangible assets. We omit corporate or non-operating costs as they are meant to be allocated against a larger operational base which our business plan outlines. As we grow our operations organically and through M&A activities these corporate costs are absorbed more equitably, we will use Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) as our means of measuring comparable operational performance to other companies in our industry. We also believe that investors, analysts and other interested parties view our ability to generate OIBITDA as an important measure of our operating performance and that of other companies in our industry. OIBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) for the periods indicated as a measure of our performance. The use of OIBITDA has limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider these performance measures in isolation from, or as an alternative to, GAAP measures such as net income (loss). OIBITDA is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP or otherwise and is not an alternative to cash flow from continuing operating activities. Our presentation of OIBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by the expenses that are excluded from that term or by unusual or non-recurring items. The limitations of OIBITDA include: (i) it does not reflect our corporate expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; (ii) it does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (iii) it does not reflect income tax payments we may be required to make; and (iv) it does not reflect the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments associated with indebtedness. To properly and prudently evaluate our business, we encourage you to review our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the reconciliation to OIBITDA from net income (loss), the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with GAAP, set forth in the following table. All the items included in the reconciliation from net income (loss) to OIBITDA are either (i) corporate costs or (ii) items that management does not consider in assessing our on-going operating performance. In the case of the other items that management does not consider in assessing our on-going operating performance, management believes that investors may find it useful to assess our operating performance if the measures are presented without these items because their financial impact may not reflect on-going operating performance. OIBITDA calculation comparison for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: December 31 2020 2019 Operating income (loss) $ (988 ) $ 1,084 Depreciation and amortization 79 25 Corporate, general and administrative 1,567 239 $ 658 $ 1,348 32 Operational performance comparison for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: December 31 2020 2019 Revenue $ 29,202 $ 38,444 Gross profit $ 3,474 $ 4,069 OIBITDA $ 658 $ 1,348 Net income (loss) $ (789 ) $ 195 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section includes several forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including, but not limited to, statements about our plans, strategies, adequacy of resources and future financial results (such as revenue, gross profit, operating profit, cash flow), are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by words like anticipates, believes, expects, may, will, can, could, should, intends, project, predict, plans, estimates, goal, target, possible, potential, would, seek, and similar references to future periods. These statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us and our clients; our ability to access the capital markets by pursuing additional debt and equity financing to fund our business plan and expenses; our continued inability to issue additional shares of equity securities; negative outcome of pending and future claims and litigation and our ability to comply with our contractual covenants, including in respect of our debt; potential loss of clients and possible rejection of our business model and/or sales methods; weakness in general economic conditions and levels of capital spending by customers in the industries we serve; weakness or volatility in the financial and capital markets, which may result in the postponement or cancellation of our customers projects or the inability of our customers to pay our fees; delays or reductions in U.S. government spending; credit risks associated with our customers; competitive market pressures; the availability and cost of qualified labor; our level of success in attracting, training and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; changes in tax laws and other government regulations, including the impact of health care reform laws and regulations; the possibility of incurring liability for our business activities, including, but not limited to, the activities of our temporary employees; our performance on customer contracts; and government policies, legislation or judicial decisions adverse to our businesses. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We recommend readers to carefully review the entirety of this Annual Report, including the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report and the other reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), particularly our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our reports on Form 8-K. 33 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, our expectations regarding the future performance of our business and the other non-historical statements in the discussion and analysis are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should read the following discussion together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our financial information may not be indicative of our future performance. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Demand for Maslow EOR services and field talent is dependent upon general economic conditions and labor trends. The United States economic backdrop during the first quarter 2020 was positive until the rise in COVID 19 cases changed the business landscape profoundly. Before the pandemic, the United States marked a 50-year unemployment low in February 2020, with just 3.5% of Americans unemployed. Starting the week of March 9, 2020, numerous U.S. state and federal governments began urging or requiring residents to stay home and banning large gatherings and restricted travel. Schools were closed and all sporting events across the United States were either cancelled or postponed indefinitely. Many companies mandated that their employees work from home and discontinued use of many workers who could not perform their type of work from home (e.g., video, sound, lighting crew, makeup-artists). Maslow began seeing the effects the week of March 16, 2020 as its contracted employee and freelance payroll hours dropped as much as 49% during the second quarter. This was because a large portion of Maslow employees were assigned to field, location, or studio filming projects for our clients that require close contact with others. These projects were placed on indefinite hold and these employees who saw their hours dramatically reduced. Those who could continue to work from their homes for our clients, have continued to log hours. Not surprisingly the months of April and May 2020 saw the largest drop in comparative 2020 revenue to 2019 at 49% ($3,379 from $6,673). Second quarter 2020 revenue of $5,197 was 46% off the pace of 2019s $9,617 comparative. In the third quarter of 2020, that loss dwindled to approximately 38%, as the Company generated $6,201 in third quarter revenues vs. $10,089 in the same period in 2019. However, our fourth quarter revenue of $9,003 was only 13.7% less than the fourth quarter in 2019 when it was $10,438. This was due to our clients increasing their payrolls as COVID-19 restrictions by state began to wane, and seasonal fall business activities such as the U.S. elections were held, and the 17-week regular season of the National Football League (NFL) season commenced and proceeded. We are hopeful that the dissemination of vaccines will result in resumption of a normally functioning economy which will continue to enable our clients to return their payrolls to normal levels that in turn, will continue ours and an overall economic rebound. However, no assurance can be given on if and when this will happen or what impact it will have on our business. As far as cash is concerned, in 2020 although COVID-19 exacerbated our already precarious cash position as explained more thoroughly below (see Liquidity and Capital Resources), we received a $250 short term loan from Triumph at 10% annual percentage rate (APR), in February,2020 and then in May 2020, $5,215 in Payroll Protection Plan (PPP) funds which assisted us in weathering the storm, especially through the lean months from May through August 2020. By the end of August 2020, we had exhausted our use of PPP funds, but our working capital remained strong at $5,693. Because our larger clients scaled back media related activities in 2020 due to COVID-19, our revenue became more diverse as reliance on our top 2 clients dropped from 49% in 2019 to 39% in 2020. Four clients with revenues greater than $500 actually increased revenue in 2020 by $2,111. Our working capital though has assumed repayment of Vivos Holdings debt which as of December 31, 2020 was $5,970. We had expected repayment in early 2020 after Vivos Holdings defaulted on two of their notes at the end of December 2019. 34 From a technology perspective, we updated our finance and accounting system from Sage 50 which was a client server version, to Sage Intaact, a cloud-based application. We also bolstered our automated sales and marketing capabilities by adding SaaS applications Salesforce.com and ZoomInfo. So, although we still do not possess an integrated ERP, we improved our business intelligence, CRM, Finance and Accounting capabilities. On February 17, 2020, after several attempts to negotiate a payment plan with Suresh Venkat Doki (brother of Mr. Doki) and Mr. Doki, Maslow, as plaintiff, filed a complaint with the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Maryland against Mr. Doki and other Vivos Debtors. In February 2020, the shortage of cash at this juncture resulted from, among other things, the Company being unable to finance IQS invoices through Triumph because a lien was discovered to exist on IQS assets delaying utilization of Maslows much more favorable factoring relationship with Triumph. As for the lien, it was not disclosed to Maslow by Vivos Holdings, the seller, before or after the transaction closed. This is when Maslow sought $250 from Triumph and later made a payment to buy its way out of the unfavorable factoring arrangement and take on other actions to move IQS financing to Triumph. The Companys executives and its board of directors worked together on managing costs and implementing measures to facilitate the rapid ramp-up of operations once the governmental restrictions began being lifted in June 2020. But we did not see our clients return to better than 60% of their customary levels of demand until September 2020. Cash and working capital began stabilizing in late September 2020 after the PPP funds had been exhausted for their intended purpose, payroll only in our case, and we began utilizing our factoring facility again, but not the 93% level we have over the past 2 years. 2021 and Beyond The continued impact of this pandemic cannot be precisely predicted. We believe that the short to mid-term impacts on how our clients conduct work will continue to be aligned with our strategic path. As a result, we have continued to move forward with our diversified offerings and future specialization staffing strategy, updating our already expert operating model and organizing our business to more easily acquire and maintain client accounts. We believe given the changing nature in specialized staffing due to the pandemic that there likes a greater opportunity to expand our EOR business as it offers businesses of all types and industries, more flexibility in on and off boarding employees as well as managing 1099 risk. As far as staffing, media staffing, we believe it will grow but there are also opportunities to get into staffing specialties which represent areas where we see the most rebound for a robust demand. We will continue to focus on growing the contingent staffing side of our business. Our IT Staffing brand, Intelligent Quality Solutions, will be a primary focus moving forward. Bringing on new segments whether organically or through M&A reflect our desire to shift our portfolio toward a higher margin, higher value proposition. COMPANY OVERVIEW Maslow is a national provider of employer of record, recruiting and staffing services, consisting of media and IT resources. We provide services to client primarily within the United States of America. Our services consist of: Employer of Record (EOR): A unique workforce solution for any organization who seeks efficiency in employee administrative management including payroll and benefits, labor risk associated with compliance with federal-state and local regulations including Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), in onboarding and offboarding employees, and in managing benefit costs. Recruiting and Staffing: Staffing covering a wide variety of specialties. Currently Media and Information Technology (IT) encompass most of our placements. Video and Multimedia Production: With 32 years of experience, the Companys subsidiary, Maslow, offer script to screen expertise including producers, audio engineers, editors, broadcasters, makeup artists, camera crews, Gaffers and grips, drone operators and more. 35 The Companys subsidiary, The Maslow Media Group, Inc. (Maslow) is currently the only earning entity for the business. After our Merger in October 2019, non-operational expenses (e.g., public company fees, D&O insurance, investor relations, etc.) were assigned at the corporate level. This enables a more pristine focused view of the operational side of the business we refer to as Operational Income Before Depreciation, Interest, and Amortization. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Maslow had revenues totaling $29,202 in 2020, which was a 24% decrease over $38,444 in 2019. IQS, our IT Staffing business segment, which was acquired on December 1, 2019, accounted for $2,571, or 8.8%. The COVID-19 impact to revenue was undoubtedly profound but difficult to measure given there is no way to know what level of growth existing clients may have had or revenue potential of new clients. Overall, Maslow lost $7,611 to accounts with declining revenues => $500, but conversely added $2,111 from new or growing accounts that had at least $500 more in revenue in 2020 from 2019. AT&Ts DirecTV cancelled Sirius-XM programming in February 2020 that we believe had a negative impact of $3,400 on revenue. Overall DirecTV year over year revenue declined by $4,759. If we assume that those clients who had revenues in 2019 and zero in 2020 and include those with steep declines > $500 and 2020 revenues $100. The funds bolstered our working capital and enabled us to bring back employees and continue to serve our clients even though their requirements had lessened. As of December 31, 2020, our working capital was $5,970, compared to $784 a year ago as the PPP funds enabled the Company to build A/R reserves since PPP funds were employed to pay salaries of both outsourced and SG&A employees, while approximately 58% of 2019 revenue was still attained and collectible during the covered 24-week period between May and October 2020. We anticipate approximately $300 in additional SG&A costs in 2021, when compared with 2020 relating to increase in sales and marketing head count to meet growth objectives. 39 A summary of our operating, investing and financing activities are shown in the following table: December 31 2020 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (2,070 ) $ 1 Net cash used in investing activities (50 ) (39 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,915 284 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (205 ) $ 246 Operating Activities Cash employed by operating activities consists of net income (loss), adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, and the effect of working capital changes. The primary drivers of cash inflows and outflows are factoring, accounts receivable and accrued payroll and expenses. During 2020, net cash used in operating activities was ($2,070), a decrease of $2,071 compared with $1 for 2019. This decrease is primarily attributable to our net loss of ($789), and changes in income tax payable by ($525), accrued payroll ($455), and accounts payable ($401). Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for capital expenditures. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities in 2020 was $1,915 as compared to cash used for same purpose totaling $284 in 2019. The increase was due to the Company receiving $5,216 in PPP offset by $853 in repayments from the issuance of convertible notes starting in June of 2019 and return of cash flows from short-term borrowing via our factoring vehicle. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are likely to have, a current or future material effect on our operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We have identified the policies listed below as critical to our business and the understanding of our results of operations. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, collectability of accounts receivable, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, contingencies, litigation, income taxes, stock option expense, and other liabilities. Management based its estimates and judgments on historical experiences and on various other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results under circumstances and conditions different than those assumed could result in differences from the estimated amounts in the consolidated financial statements. 40 REVENUE RECOGNITION On January 1, 2019 the Company adopted the new accounting standard ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, for all open contracts and related amendments as of December 31, 2019 using the modified retrospective method. The adoption had no impact to the reported results. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, the core principle of which is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve this core principle, five basic criteria must be met before revenue can be recognized: (1) identify the contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligation(s) in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to performance obligation(s) in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. The Company accounts for revenues when both parties to the contract have approved the contract, the rights and obligations of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, and collectability of consideration is probable. Payment terms vary by client and the services offered. We derive our revenues from three segments: EOR, Recruiting and Staffing, and Video and Multimedia Production. We provide temporary staffing and permanent placement services. Revenues are recognized when promised services are delivered to client, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services. Revenues as presented on the consolidated statements of operations represent services rendered to client less variable consideration, such as sales adjustments and allowances. Reimbursements, including those related to out-of-pocket expenses, are also included in revenues, and equivalent amounts of reimbursable expenses are included in cost of services. We record revenue on a gross basis as a principal versus on a net basis as an agent in the presentation of revenues and expenses. We have concluded that gross reporting is appropriate because we (i) have the risk of identifying and hiring qualified workers, (ii) have the discretion to select the workers and establish their price and duties and (iii) we bear the risk for services that are not fully paid for by client. Temporary staffing revenues is accounted for as a single performance obligation satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Companys performance on an hourly basis. The contracts stipulate weekly billing, and the Company has elected the as invoiced practical expedient to recognize revenue based on the hours incurred at the contractual rate as we have the right to payment in an amount that corresponds directly with the value of performance completed to date. Permanent placement revenue is recognized on the date the candidates full-time employment with the customer has commenced. The customer is invoiced on the start date, and the contract stipulates payment due under varying terms, typically 90 days. The contract with the customer stipulates a guarantee period whereby the Company will replace the candidate for free of charge if the employee is terminated within that 90-day period. As such, the Companys performance obligations are satisfied upon commencement of the employment, at which point control has transferred to the customer. Allowances, recorded as a liability, are established to estimate these losses. Fees to client are generally calculated as a percentage of the new workers annual compensation. No fees for permanent placement services are charged to employment candidates. Video and Multimedia Production revenues from contracts with client are recognized in the amount to which we have a right to invoice when the services are rendered by our field talent. 41 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Company holds intangible assets with finite lives. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives, ranging from three to ten years, based on a pattern in which the economic benefit of the respective intangible asset is realized. Identifiable intangible assets recognized in conjunction with acquisitions are recorded at fair value. Significant unobservable inputs are used to determine the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets based on the income approach valuation model whereby the present worth and anticipated future benefits of the identifiable intangible assets were discounted back to their net present value. The Company evaluates the recoverability of intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an intangible assets carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company annually evaluates the remaining useful lives of all intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. The Company determined that there were no impairment indicators for these assets during the year ended December 31, 2020. GOODWILL Goodwill represents the difference between the enterprise value/cash paid less the fair value of all recognized net asset fair values including identifiable intangible asset values in a business combination. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Based on annual testing, the Company has determined that there was no goodwill impairment during the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company first evaluates qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If after qualitatively assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then further testing is unnecessary. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the Company then estimates the fair value of the reporting unit and compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill, as discussed below. In assessing whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, the Company assesses relevant events and circumstances that could affect the significant inputs used to determine the fair value. The quantitative impairment test for an indefinite-lived intangible asset consists of a comparison of the fair value of the asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, the Company shall recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess. The quantitative goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired, and no further testing is required. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, The Company must perform the second step of the impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss. In the second step, the reporting units fair value is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical analysis that calculates the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill is less than the carrying value, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. 42 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUCEMENTS For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and their potential effect on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.