Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including statements based upon or relating to our expectations, estimates, and projections. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance; they reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from expectations or results projected or implied by forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors and in other filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Unless required by federal securities laws, we assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated, to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the statements are made. Given these uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Investors should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the documents we reference in this report and have filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. References to Notes are notes included in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a technology company that empowers ad buyers by providing a self-service platform that enables our clients to purchase and manage data-driven digital advertising campaigns using their own teams. Our platform allows clients to manage integrated advertising campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video and social, and on a multitude of devices, including computers, mobile devices, connected TV and digital radio, an approach that we refer to as omnichannel. Our company was founded in 2009 by two pioneers of programmatic advertising buying who were motivated to allow buyers of advertising to precisely target audiences with the most relevant and highest performing ads. We commercially launched our platform in May 2011. Since launch, we have also extended our platform to address additional advertising formats. In 2011, approximately 100% of gross spend on our platform was for display advertising compared to 48% in 2016, with the remainder derived from mobile, video, social, native and audio. Our clients are the advertising agencies and other service providers for advertisers. By aligning our business with buyers, we avoid inherent conflicts of interest that exist when serving both the buy- and sell-side, which we believe helps us build trust with our clients. We provide our platform through a self-service, browser based user interface and also enable clients to customize and build their own features and reports on our platform through our application programming interfaces. After adding a client through our sales team or an in-bound request, we teach clients how to use our platform to design and execute advertising campaigns independently. We generate revenue by charging our clients a platform fee based on a percentage of a clients total spend on advertising, data and other features through our platform, the total of which we refer to as gross spend. We enter into ongoing master service agreements with our clients as opposed to episodic insertion orders. To further align our interests with those of our clients, we do not buy advertising inventory in order to resell it to our clients for a profit. 13 Table of Contents Executive Summary Highlights For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: our revenue was $53.4 million and $30.4 million, respectively, representing a period over period increase of 76%; our net income (loss) was $4.9 million and $(1.0) million, respectively; and our Adjusted EBITDA was $6.3 million and $4.3 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). For information on how we compute Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA, see the section captioned Non-GAAP Financial Data below. Trends, Opportunities and Challenges The growing digitization of media and fragmentation of audiences has increased the complexity of advertising, and thereby increased the need for automation in ad buying, which we provide on our platform. In order to grow, we will need to continue to develop our platforms programmatic capabilities and advertising inventory. We believe that key opportunities include our ongoing expansion into video and television ad inventory and continuing development of our data usage and advertising targeting capabilities. We believe that our revenue as a percentage of gross spend, which is sometimes referred to as take rate, may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, such as changes in the proportion of spend represented by our larger customers with the lowest platform fees, our clients use of platform features and volume discounts. Revenue as a percentage of gross spend may also decrease in the future, especially as we introduce and as our clients select new platform features, expand our omnichannel capabilities and add additional clients whose businesses may have different underlying business models. Further, we believe that our ability to integrate and offer television and digital radio advertising inventory for purchase through our platform, and in particular our ability to manage the increased costs that will accompany these purchases, will impact the future growth of our business. We believe that growth of the programmatic advertising market is important for our ability to grow our business. Adoption of programmatic advertising by advertisers allows us to acquire new clients and grow revenue from existing clients. Although our clients include some of the largest advertising agencies in the world, we believe there is significant room for us to expand further within these clients and gain a larger amount of their advertising spend through our platform. We also believe that industry trends will lead to advertisers adopting programmatic advertising through platforms such as ours. However, even if the programmatic advertising market continues to grow at its current rate, our ability to position ourselves within the market and maintain or grow market share will impact the future growth of our business. Similarly, the adoption of programmatic advertising by inventory owners and content providers allows us to expand the volume and type of advertising inventory that we present to our clients. For example, we have expanded our native and digital audio advertising offerings through our recent integrations with supply-side partners. We plan to invest for long-term growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly in the foreseeable future as we invest in platform operations and technology and development to enhance our product features, including programmatic buying of television ad inventory, and in sales and marketing to acquire new clients and reinforce our relationships with existing clients. In addition, we expect to continue making investments in our infrastructure, including our information technology, financial and administrative systems and controls, to support our operations. In addition, we believe the markets outside of the United States offer an opportunity for growth, and we intend to make additional investments in sales and marketing and product development to expand in these markets, including China, where we are making significant investments in launching our platform and growing our team. We believe that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth, although they may negatively impact profitability in the near term. 14 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated results of operations as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Revenue $ 53,352 $ 30,378 Operating expenses: Platform operations 12,549 7,513 Sales and marketing 12,476 8,431 Technology and development 10,461 4,639 General and administrative 15,930 6,399 Total operating expenses 51,416 26,982 Income from operations 1,936 3,396 Total other expense, net 792 5,264 Income (loss) before income taxes 1,144 (1,868 ) Benefit from income taxes (3,765 ) (828 ) Net income (loss) $ 4,909 $ (1,040 ) Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (as a percentage of revenue*) Revenue 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Platform operations 24 25 Sales and marketing 23 28 Technology and development 20 15 General and administrative 30 21 Total operating expenses 96 89 Income from operations 4 11 Total other expense, net 1 17 Income (loss) before income taxes 2 (6 ) Benefit from income taxes (7 ) (3 ) Net income (loss) 9 % (3 )% * Percentages may not sum due to rounding. Revenue Change 2017 2016 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 53,352 $ 30,378 $ 22,974 76 % The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to an increase in gross spend on our platform by existing clients, which was driven by an increase in the number of advertising campaigns executed per client. Platform Operations Change 2017 2016 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 12,549 $ 7,513 $ 5,036 67 % Percent of revenue 24 % 25 % The increase in platform operations expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to an increase of $3.6 million in hosting costs to support the increased use of our platform by our clients and an increase of $1.0 million in personnel costs driven by an increase in headcount for our client support team. We expect platform operations expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we continue to experience increased volumes of transactions through our platform and hire additional personnel to support our clients. 15 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Change 2017 2016 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 12,476 $ 8,431 $ 4,045 48 % Percent of revenue 23 % 28 % The increase in sales and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $3.4 million in personnel costs and $0.9 million in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in headcount to support our sales efforts and continue to develop and maintain relationships with our clients. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by an increase in rent expense associated with new operating leases. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods, as we focus on increasing the adoption of our platform with existing and new clients and expanding our international business. Technology and Development Change 2017 2016 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 10,461 $ 4,639 $ 5,822 126 % Percent of revenue 20 % 15 % The increase in technology and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $4.3 million in personnel costs and $1.1 million in allocated facilities costs. The increase in personnel costs was primarily attributable to increased headcount to maintain and support our technology and development efforts. The increase in allocated facilities costs was primarily driven by an increase in rent expense associated with new operating leases. We expect technology and development expense to increase as we continue to invest in the development of our platform to support additional features and functions, increase the number of advertising and data inventory suppliers and ramp up the volume of advertising spending on our platform. We also intend to invest in technology to further automate our business processes. General and Administrative Change 2017 2016 $ % ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 15,930 $ 6,399 $ 9,531 149 % Percent of revenue 30 % 21 % The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to increases of $4.7 million in personnel costs and $3.3 million in bad debt expense. The increase in personnel costs was primarily related to increased finance and legal headcount to support our growth. The increase in bad debt expense was primarily attributable to reserves for two clients. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2017, we incurred $0.9 million in legal, accounting, printing and other costs related to our secondary offering. We expect to continue to invest in corporate infrastructure and incur additional expenses associated with our operations as a public company, including increased legal and accounting costs, investor relations costs, higher insurance premiums and compliance costs associated with developing the requisite infrastructure required for internal controls. 16 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net 2017 2016 $ Change (in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ 792 $ 5,264 $ (4,472 ) The decrease in other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to a $4.4 million decrease in the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrant liabilities due to the conversion and exercise of such warrants as part of our initial public offering in September 2016. Benefit from Income Taxes 2017 2016 ($ in thousands) Three months ended March 31, $ (3,765 ) $ (828 ) Effective tax rate (329.1 )% 44.3 % The increase in the benefit from income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to the same prior year period, was primarily due to discrete benefits of approximately $5.3 million associated with disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options, partially offset by the impact of higher pre-tax income in U.S. jurisdictions. Excluding the impact of discrete items, our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 would have been 46.6%. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2017, we had cash of $106.6 million, including cash of $4.6 million held by our international subsidiaries, and net working capital, consisting of current assets less current liabilities, of $179.8 million. We believe our existing cash, cash flow from operations, and our undrawn balance under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our current credit facility was amended and restated on May 9, 2017, with a maturity date of May 9, 2022 see the section captioned Revolving Credit Facility below. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In the future, we may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or through equity-linked or debt financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be subject to increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could be unfavorable to equity investors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if our operating performance during the next 12 months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. Revolving Credit Facility On March 30, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks, led by Citibank, N.A. The Revolving Credit Agreement provides for a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility), which we may draw upon as needed. Under the Credit Facility, we had an outstanding debt balance of $25.8 million that bore interest at a weighted average rate of 2.44% as of March 31, 2017. We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 31, 2017. On May 9, 2017, we, a syndicate of banks, led by Citibank, N.A., and Citibank, N.A., as agent, entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended Revolving Credit Agreement). The Amended Revolving Credit Agreement, among other things, provides for an increase of $75.0 million in the aggregate principal amount of commitments available under the Companys senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and provides the Company greater flexibility with respect to working capital, acquisitions and general corporate purposes (the Amended Credit Facility). Available funding commitments to the Company under the Amended Credit Facility, subject to certain conditions, total up to $200.0 million, with a $20.0 million sublimit for swingline borrowings and a $15.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Under certain circumstances, the Company has the right to increase the Amended Credit Facility by an amount not 17 Table of Contents to exceed $100.0 million. The Amended Revolving Credit Agreement is collateralized by substantially all of the Companys assets, including a pledge of certain of our accounts receivable, deposit accounts, intellectual property, investment property, and equipment, and availability under the Amended Revolving Credit Agreement is based on a percentage of the value of accounts receivable, as reduced by certain reserves. For additional information regarding the Amended Revolving Credit Agreement, refer to Note 11Subsequent Event. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities $ (22,740 ) $ 16,885 Cash flows used in investing activities (4,249 ) (929 ) Cash flows provided by financing activities 162 10,856 Increase (decrease) in cash $ (26,827 ) $ 26,812 Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily influenced by growth in our operations, increases or decreases in collections from our clients and related payments to our suppliers of advertising inventory and data. The timing of cash receipts from clients and payments to suppliers can significantly impact our cash flows from operating activities. We typically pay suppliers in advance of collections from our clients. Our collection and payment cycles can vary from period to period. In addition, we expect seasonality to impact cash flows from operating activities on a sequential quarterly basis. We compute our average days sales outstanding, or DSO, and average days payable outstanding, or DPO, as of a given date based on our average trade receivables or trade payables, respectively, for the trailing 12-month period divided by, for DSO, average daily gross billings for the period, and for DPO, by the average daily cost of media, data, and operating expenses, in each case, over such period. The average trade receivables or trade payables are the average of the trade receivables or trade payables balances at the beginning and end of the 12-month period. Historically, our DSOs have fluctuated over time. If our DSOs increase significantly, and we are unable to borrow against these receivables on commercially acceptable terms, our working capital availability could be reduced, and as a consequence our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. The following table summarizes the DSO and DPO for the periods presented. As of March 31, 2017 2016 (days) DSO 82 76 DPO 60 51 For the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in operating activities of $22.7 million primarily resulted from a decrease in accounts payable of $87.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $59.2 million. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily driven by seasonality, whereby the amounts due to our media and data suppliers are lower due to decreased spend by our customers during the first quarter of the calendar year as compared to the fourth quarter of the preceding year. The decrease in accounts receivable was also driven by seasonality, whereby our gross billings are lower during the first quarter of the calendar year as compared to the fourth quarter of the preceding year. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash provided by operating activities of $16.9 million primarily resulted from a decrease in accounts receivable of $23.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $6.5 million. The decreases in accounts receivable and accounts payable were primarily due to the aforementioned seasonality factors described above. Investing Activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of purchases of property and equipment in support of our expanding headcount as a result of our growth, and capital expenditures to develop our software in support of enhancing our technology platform. Purchases of property and equipment may vary from period-to-period due to the timing of the expansion of our 18 Table of Contents operations, the addition of headcount and the development cycles of our software development. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we used $4.2 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $3.6 million to purchase property and equipment and $0.6 million of investments in capitalized software. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, we used $0.9 million of cash in investing activities, consisting of $0.4 million to purchase property and equipment and $0.5 million of investments in capitalized software. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash provided by financing activities of $0.2 million was primarily due to proceeds from stock option exercises of $0.3 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash provided by financing activities of $10.9 million was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of Series C convertible preferred stock of $60.0 million and proceeds from our line of credit of $55.8 million, partially offset by the repurchase of preferred and common stock of $54.0 million and repayments of prior borrowings of $50.0 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any relationships with other entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements at March 31, 2017 other than operating leases and the indemnification agreements described below. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our other contractual commitments, primarily with hosting services providers, as of March 31, 2017: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year (Remaining 2017) 1-3 Years (2018 and 2019) 3-5 Years (2020 and 2021) More than 5 Years (Thereafter) (in thousands) Other contractual commitments $ 33,486 $ 17,106 $ 16,380 $ $ In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements in which we may agree to indemnify clients, suppliers, vendors, lessors, business partners, lenders, stockholders and other parties with respect to certain matters, including losses resulting from claims of intellectual property infringement, damages to property or persons, business losses, or other liabilities. Generally, these indemnity and defense obligations relate to our own business operations, obligations, and acts or omissions. However, under some circumstances, we agree to indemnify and defend contract counterparties against losses resulting from their own business operations, obligations, and acts or omissions, or the business operations, obligations, and acts or omissions of third parties. These indemnity provisions generally survive termination or expiration of the agreements in which they appear. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors, executive officers and other officers that will require us to indemnify them against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with the evaluation of revenue recognition criteria, including the determination of revenue recognition as net versus gross in our revenue arrangements, the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of equity awards and stock-based compensation expense, and income taxes have 19 Table of Contents the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Non-GAAP Financial Data In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our business. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ 4,909 $ (1,040 ) Add back (deduct): Depreciation and amortization expense 1,493 819 Stock-based compensation expense 2,322 159 Interest expense 364 835 Secondary offering costs 940 Change in fair value of preferred stock warrant liabilities 4,383 Benefit from income taxes (3,765 ) (828 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 6,263 $ 4,328 We use Adjusted EBITDA as a measure of operational efficiency to understand and evaluate our core business operations. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors for period to period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: although depreciation and amortization expense are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect: (a) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (b) the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation; (c) secondary offering costs not considered part of our core business; or (d) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA along with other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our GAAP financial results.