Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11, 2020. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. See the discussion under Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and particularly in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full calendar year or any other period. Overview We are the worlds largest online marketplace for authenticated, consigned luxury goods. We are revolutionizing luxury resale by providing an end-to-end service that unlocks supply from consignors and creates a trusted, curated online marketplace for buyers globally. Over the past nine years, we have cultivated a loyal and engaged consignor and buyer base through continuous investment in our technology platform, logistics infrastructure and people. We aggregate and curate unique, pre-owned luxury supply that is exclusive to The RealReal across multiple categories, including womens, mens, kids, jewelry and watches, and home and art. We have built a vibrant online marketplace that we believe expands the overall luxury market, promotes the recirculation of luxury goods and contributes to a more sustainable world. We have transformed the luxury consignment experience by removing the friction and pain points inherent in the traditional consignment model. For consignors, we provide White Glove in-home consultation and pickup, drop off at one of our ten luxury consignment offices (LCOs) four of which are located in our retail stores, or complimentary shipping directly to our merchandising and fulfillment facilities. We leverage our proprietary transactional database and market insights to deliver optimal pricing and rapid sell-through. For buyers, we offer highly coveted and exclusive authenticated pre-owned luxury goods at attractive values, as well as a high-quality experience befitting the products we offer. Our online marketplace is powered by our proprietary technology platform, including consumer facing applications and purpose-built software that supports our complex, individual stock keeping unit (single-SKU) inventory model and merchandising operations. The substantial majority of our revenue is generated by consignment sales. We also generate revenue from other services and direct sales. Consignment and service revenue. When we sell goods through our online marketplace on behalf of our consignors, we retain a percentage of the proceeds, which we refer to as our take rate. Take rates vary depending on the total value of goods sold through our online marketplace on behalf of a particular consignor as well as the category and price point of the items. In the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 35.4% and 36.8%, respectively. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, our overall take rate on consigned goods was 35.9% and 36.3%, respectively. Additionally, we earn revenue from shipping fees and from our subscription program, First Look , in which we offer buyers early access to the items we sell in exchange for a monthly fee. Direct revenue. In certain cases, such as when we accept out of policy returns from buyers, we take ownership of goods and retain 100% of the proceeds when the goods subsequently resell through our online marketplace. We generate revenue from orders processed through our website, mobile app, LCOs, and four retail stores located in New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. Our omni-channel experience enables buyers to purchase anytime and anywhere. We have a global base of more than 19.3 million members as of September 30, 2020. We count as a member any user who has registered an email address on our website or downloaded our mobile app, thereby agreeing to our terms of service. Our gross merchandise value (GMV) decreased by 3% to $245.4 million from $252.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our GMV decreased by 3% to $685.7 million from $705.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. However, NMV increased slightly as returns decreased year over year primarily due to a higher mix of non-returnable items, including handbags and certain promoted items. Our total revenue decreased by 4% to $78.1 million from $81.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our total revenue decreased by 5% to $213.7 million and $224.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in revenue for both periods was driven primarily by the decreases in GMV and take rate. In the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, our gross profit was $49.8 million and $52.2 million, respectively, representing a decrease of 5%. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, our gross profit was $134.8 million and $140.7 million, respectively, representing a decrease of 4%. See Impact of COVID-19 on our Business below. 25 Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business In March 2020, the World Health Organization categorized the outbreak of a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business operations and results of operations in 2020 as described in more detail under Comparison of the Three and Nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 below. Operations in the Companys fulfillment facilitates were initially limited in accordance with shelter-in-place orders resulting in operations below full capacity . However, operations capacity was no longer limited by restrictions related to COVID-19 during the three months ended September 30, 2020. Additionally, our retail stores and luxury consignment offices were temporarily closed for varying periods of time, but have been open during the entirety of three months ended September 30, 2020 . In-person white glove consignment appointments were temporarily suspended and augmented with virtual appointments but remain an option for our consignor base. GMV was negatively impacted due to adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, but GMV trends have improved significantly . In March 2020, when many shelter-in-place directives went into effect, and continuing through mid-April 2020, GMV declined approximately 40%-45% year over year. In the three months ended September 30, 2020, GMV declined approximately 3% year over year. With the GMV recovery, we continued to invest in marketing and resumed hiring during the three months ended September 30, 2020. We expect the evolving COVID-19 pandemic to continue to have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and results of operations, including our net revenues, earnings and cash flows, including as a result of further spread of the disease, potential disruption in our fulfillment centers , further temporary closures of retail stores and luxury consignment offices, disruption to our supply acquisition, decreased productivity due to shelter-in-place orders, changes in buyer and consignor behaviors, and a slowdown in the U.S. economy and uncertain global economic outlook. It may result in changes in customer behaviors, including a potential reduction in consumer discretionary spending on our e-c ommerce site and in our retail stores. Travel and border closures do not significantly affect our business as we operate a U.S. focused marketplace. We have taken actions to help ensure that our business will continue uninterrupted through the COVID-19 pandemic, including enforcing social distancing in our fulfillment centers, enabling virtual consignment appointments, implementing curbside pick-up of products from our consignors, and implementing steps to enable employees to work remotely. The impact of these actions on our workforce are difficult to assess. However, we do not believe that these remote work arrangements have adversely affected our ability to maintain our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure