Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe to be material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 8 Table of Contents Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in this section titled Risk Factors and summarized below. We have various categories of risks, including risks relating to our business and industry, risks relating to information technology, intellectual property, data security and privacy, risks relating to legal, regulatory, accounting and tax matters, risks relating to our indebtedness and liquidity and risks relating to ownership of our Class A common stock, which are discussed more fully below. As a result, this risk factor summary does not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read this risk factor summary together with the more detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties set forth following this section under the heading Risk Factors , as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may apply to our business, activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Our continued growth depends on attracting new, and retaining existing, buyers. If we fail to generate a sufficient amount of high-quality and desirable secondhand items, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business, including our costs and supply of secondhand items, is subject to risks associated with sourcing, itemizing, warehousing and shipping. We have experienced rapid growth in many of our recent periods and those growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We have a history of losses and we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future. We may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available or may be available only by diluting existing stockholders or on undesirable terms. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenue, plan our expenses and evaluate our business and future prospects. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. We may not be able to expand our distribution center operations, attract and retain personnel to efficiently and effectively manage the operations required to process, itemize, list, sell, pack and ship secondhand and resale items or identify and lease distribution centers in geographic regions that enable us to effectively scale our operations. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may cause us to fail to timely and accurately report our financial results or result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. The global COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compromises of our data security could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and may materially harm our reputation and results of operations. Our advertising activity and strategic RaaS offerings may fail to efficiently drive growth in buyers and sellers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The dual-class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who held our capital stock prior to our Initial Public Offering (IPO), including our directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates. This ownership will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters, including the election of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, and any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other major corporate transactions requiring stockholder approval, and that may depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our continued growth depends on attracting new, and retaining existing, buyers. To expand our buyer base, we must appeal to and attract buyers who have historically purchased only new retail items or who used other means to purchase secondhand items, such as traditional brick-and-mortar thrift stores or the websites of other secondary marketplaces. We reach new buyers through paid search, social media, influencers, television and digital advertising, other paid marketing, press coverage, our RaaS offerings, referral programs, organic word of mouth and other methods of discovery, such as converting sellers to buyers. We expect to continue investing heavily in these and other marketing channels in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will enable us to attract and retain more buyers, result in increased purchase frequency or order sizes from our buyers or be cost-effective. Our ability to attract and retain buyers also depends on our ability to offer a broad selection of desirable and high-quality secondhand and resale items on our marketplaces, the reliability of our shipping and delivery estimates, our ability to consistently provide high-quality customer experiences, our ability to promote and position our brand and marketplace and the success of our marketing efforts. Our investments in marketing may not effectively reach potential buyers and existing buyers, potential buyers or existing buyers may decide not to buy through us or the spend of buyers that purchase from us may not yield the intended return on investment, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, consumer preferences may change, and buyers may not purchase through our marketplaces as frequently or spend as much with us as historically has been the case. As a result, the revenue generated from buyer transactions in the future may not be as high as the revenue generated from transactions historically. Incidentally, an inability to attract and retain buyers could harm our ability to attract and retain sellers, who may decide to resell their items through alternative platforms or marketplaces. Consequently, failure to attract new buyers and to retain existing buyers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to generate a sufficient amount of high-quality and desirable secondhand items, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to cost-effectively attract high-quality secondhand items by attracting new sellers and retaining existing sellers, such that they choose thredUP to list their items. Numerous factors, however, may impede our ability to attract new sellers and retain existing sellers with high-quality secondhand items. To expand our base of secondhand items for resale, as well as our base of sellers, we must appeal to and engage individuals new to selling secondhand items or who have sold secondhand items through traditional brick-and-mortar shops but are unfamiliar with our business. We find new sellers by converting buyers using our marketplaces, our RaaS offerings, referral programs, organic word-of-mouth and other methods of discovery, such as mentions in the press. We cannot be certain that these efforts will result in more supply of high-quality and desirable secondhand items or sellers or that these efforts will be cost-effective. Our ability to attract new and recurring high-quality and desirable secondhand items from new sellers and existing sellers depends on other factors, such as our ability to enhance and improve our marketplaces, our ability to process the items sent to us by sellers in a timely manner, sellers perceptions of whether payouts they are receiving are adequate and timely compensation for their items and the perceived quality of the items sold and purchased on our marketplaces. If we are unable to meet seller standards and drive repeat supply, our existing sellers may not choose to send us secondhand items for resale to the same extent, in terms of quality, value or volume, in the future. Further, failure to generate sufficient high-quality secondhand items and attract new sellers and retain existing sellers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For instance, if our sellers send lower quality or less desirable secondhand items that we are unable to resell in our marketplaces, then we will incur expense to sort and process such lower quality secondhand items and detract resources from processing re-sellable secondhand items. Additionally, if sellers substantially increase the initial price of their items that we list on our marketplaces and subsequently reclaim these items if they do not sell within the listing window, our business could be harmed because these activities may negatively affect sell-through rates and gross margin. In addition to sourcing high-quality secondhand items by attracting new sellers and retaining existing sellers, our European operations acquire secondhand items from professional supplier companies as well as previously returned items from other retail apparel businesses. We are subject to the risks of the broader retail environment, such as fluctuations in price and availability in procuring secondhand and returned items through these supply channels. Further, the European suppliers we work with may increase their prices, which may negatively affect the cost efficiency for our European operations to source supply in this manner. Such potential risks and constraints on the supply of items to sell on our Remix platform could lead to our business, results of operations and financial condition being harmed. 10 Table of Contents Our business, including our costs and supply of secondhand items, is subject to risks associated with sourcing, itemizing, warehousing and shipping. Nearly all of the secondhand items we offer through our marketplaces are initially sourced from sellers who are individuals. As a result, we may be subject to periodic fluctuations in the number, brands and quality of secondhand items sold through our marketplaces. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by these fluctuations. In addition, as we expand into new categories of secondhand items, our payments to our sellers may rise relative to our existing categories, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We can make no assurance that secondhand items we receive from sellers will be of sufficient quality or free from damage, or that such secondhand items will not be damaged during shipping, while in one of our distribution centers or when shipped to buyers. While we conduct inspections of secondhand items sent by sellers for resale and inspect secondhand items returned by buyers, we cannot control items while they are out of our possession or prevent all damage while in our distribution centers. For example, we have in the past and may in the future experience contamination, such as mold, bacteria, insects and other pests, in the secondhand items shipped to us by our sellers, which may cause contamination of the secondhand items in our distribution centers or while shipping to buyers. If we are unable to detect and quarantine such contaminants at the time such secondhand items are initially received in our distribution centers, some or all of the secondhand items in such facilities could be contaminated. We may incur additional expenses and our reputation could be harmed if the secondhand items we offer are damaged or contain contaminants. We rely on consumer discretionary spending and have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends. Our business and results of operations are subject to global economic conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending, particularly in the retail market. Some of the factors that may negatively influence consumer spending on retail items include economic downturns, high levels of unemployment, high consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth, declines in asset values, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, inflation, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment. Economic conditions in particular regions may also be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and wildfires; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, political crises, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine, terrorist attacks, war and other incidents of political instability or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the United States or internationally. Traditionally, consumer purchases of new retail items have declined during periods of economic uncertainty, when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. This has also resulted in increases in inventory levels which can lead to increased price competition and depressed margins. Such economic uncertainty and decrease in the rate of retail purchases in the primary market may slow the rate at which individuals choose to supply their secondhand items to us, which could result in a decrease of items available in our marketplaces, and may also slow the rate at which individuals choose to buy secondhand items and their value on our marketplaces, including through a relative increase in purchases in the primary market compared with the resale market. For instance, from the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic and throughout 2022, we experienced an increase in the supply of Clean Out Kits with secondhand items from sellers. Additionally, at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced a reduction in operations productivity at our distribution centers as we were unable to process Clean Out Kits at our normal rate. The presence or absence of government stimulus funding programs has had and may continue to have an impact on consumer discretionary spending and, consequently, purchases through our marketplaces. Further, we cannot guarantee that buyers will continue to buy at current rates if the economy worsens. Adverse economic changes could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby negatively affect our results of operations. The market in which we participate is competitive and rapidly changing, and if we do not compete effectively with established companies as well as new market entrants or maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The markets for secondhand and resale items are highly competitive. We compete with vendors of new and secondhand items, including branded goods stores, local, national and global department stores, traditional brick-and-mortar consignment and thrift stores, specialty retailers, direct-to-consumer, retailers, discount chains, independent retail stores, the online offerings of traditional retail competitors, resale players focused on niche or single categories, as well as technology-enabled marketplaces that may offer the same or similar goods and services that we offer. We believe our ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: attracting and retaining buyers and sellers and increasing the volume of secondhand items they buy and sell; 11 Table of Contents further developing our data science and automation capabilities; maintaining favorable brand recognition; effectively delivering our marketplaces to buyers and sellers; identifying and delivering authentic, high-quality secondhand items; maintaining and increasing the amount, diversity and quality of brands and secondhand items that we offer; our ability to expand the means through which we acquire and offer secondhand items for resale; the price at which secondhand items accepted onto our marketplaces are offered; fluctuations in inventories held by primary sellers and related fluctuations in promotional activities and merchandise discounting; the speed and cost at which we can process and make available secondhand items and deliver purchased secondhand items to our buyers; and the ease with which our buyers and sellers can supply, purchase and return secondhand items. As our market evolves and we begin to compete with new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Established companies may not only develop their own platforms and competing lines of business, but also acquire or establish cooperative relationships with our current competitors or provide meaningful incentives to third parties to favor their offerings over our marketplaces. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors or potential alliances among competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages such as greater brand name recognition and longer operating histories, larger fulfillment infrastructures, greater technical capabilities, faster shipping times, lower-cost shipping, broader supply, established relationships with a larger existing buyer and/or seller base, superior or more desirable secondhand items for sale or resale, greater customer service resources, greater financial, marketing, institutional and other resources than we do, greater resources to make acquisitions, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios, and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. Such competitors with greater financial and operating resources may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements and derive greater revenue and profits from their existing buyer bases, adopt more aggressive pricing policies to build larger buyer or seller bases, or respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in consumer shopping behavior. Potential buyers may also prefer to purchase retail items from larger online or brick-and-mortar competitors that they currently shop from, rather than a newer marketplace, regardless of offerings. These larger competitors often have broader supply and market focus and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. If such competitors have excess inventory and choose to discount their merchandise or increase promotional activities, potential buyers could increase their relative purchases from such competitors. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, or if they partner with our competitors and devote greater resources to implement and support the platforms or retail items of our competitors, our ability to compete in the marketplace, or to grow our revenue, could be impaired, and our results of operations may suffer. Even if these partnerships and any future partnerships we undertake are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased buying and selling through our marketplaces or increased revenue. Conditions in our market could also change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors or continuing market consolidation or strategic changes we or our competitors make in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and it is uncertain how our market will evolve. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer buyers and sellers, reduced revenue, gross profit, and gross margins, increased net losses and loss of market share. Any failure to meet and address these factors could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We have experienced rapid growth in many of our recent periods and those growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in certain recent periods, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Additionally, our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we scale our operational, financial and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures. To manage growth in our operations and the growth in the number of buyers and sellers on our platform, we will need to continue to grow and improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We will need to maintain or increase the automation of our distribution centers and continue to improve how we apply data science to our operations. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, marketing, operations, administrative, financial, customer support, engineering and other resources. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to attract new buyers and sellers and to grow our business. In addition, future growth, such as the potential expansion of our operations internationally or expansion into new categories of offerings, either organically or through acquisitions, would require significant capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations, and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas. Our revenue was $288.4 million, $251.8 million and $186.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, representing annual growth of 15% and 35%, respectively. In future periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase revenue growth rates consistent with recent history, or at all. Our revenue growth has been and may continue to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe our success and revenue growth depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: attract and retain new and existing buyers and sellers and grow our supply of high-quality secondhand items for resale through our marketplaces; scale our revenue and achieve the operating efficiencies necessary to achieve and maintain profitability; increase buyer and seller awareness of our brand; anticipate and respond to changing buyer and seller preferences; manage and improve our business processes in response to changing business needs; process Clean Out Kits from sellers on a timely basis; improve, expand and further automate our distribution center operations and information systems; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes generally, including changes in the markets for both new and secondhand retail items; successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants, including national retailers and brands and traditional brick-and-mortar thrift stores; effectively scale our operations while maintaining high-quality service and buyer and seller satisfaction; hire and retain talented employees and professional contractors at all levels of our business; avoid or manage interruptions in our business from information technology downtime, cybersecurity breaches and other factors that could affect our physical and digital infrastructure; fulfill and deliver Orders in a timely manner and in accordance with customer expectations, which may change over time; maintain a high level of customer service and satisfaction; adapt to changing conditions in our industry and related to the COVID-19 pandemic and measures implemented to manage its spread; and comply with regulations applicable to our business. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to accomplish any of these tasks, our revenue growth will be harmed. We also expect our operating expenses to increase in future periods, and if our revenue growth does not increase to offset these anticipated increases in our operating expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of losses and we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future. We may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We experienced net losses of $92.3 million, $63.2 million, and $47.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We expect to continue to incur net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We believe there is a significant market opportunity for our business, and we intend to invest aggressively to capitalize on this opportunity. Because the market for secondhand items is evolving, particularly the online resale of secondhand items, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations or the limits of our market opportunity. We expect our operating expenses to significantly increase as we expand our operations and infrastructure, make significant investments in our marketing initiatives, develop and introduce new technologies and automation and hire additional personnel. Additionally, during periods of increased investment in growth, we expect our operating expenses related to inbound processing, operations and technology could increase as a percentage of revenue. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in revenue growth or increased efficiency. In addition, as we grow and comply with rules and regulations of being a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. If our revenue does not increase to offset these expected increases in our operating expenses, we will not be profitable in future periods. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability and may continue to incur significant losses going forward. Any failure by us to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent basis could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenue, plan our expenses and evaluate our business and future prospects. We have a limited operating history in a rapidly evolving industry that may not develop in a manner favorable to our business. Our marketplaces represent a substantial departure from the traditional thrift store market for secondhand items. While our business has grown rapidly, and much of that growth has occurred in recent periods, the resale market for secondhand items may not continue to develop in a manner that we expect or that otherwise would be favorable to our business. As a result of our limited operating history, ongoing changes in our new and evolving industry, our ability to forecast our future results of operations and plan for and model future growth is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. Accordingly, we may be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenue that we do not receive as a result of delays arising from these factors, and our results of operations in future reporting periods may be below the expectations of investors or analysts. If we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our estimates and forecasts or the expectations of investors or analysts, causing our business to suffer and our Class A common stock price to decline. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. Our quarterly results of operations have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including, but not limited to: the level of supply and demand for secondhand items; fluctuations in the levels or quality of secondhand items on our marketplaces fluctuations in capacity as we expand our operations our success in engaging existing buyers and sellers and attracting new buyers and sellers our ability to meet the expectations of sellers that we will process their Clean Out Kits in a timely manner; the amount and timing of our operating expenses 14 Table of Contents the timing of expenses and recognition of revenue; the timing and success of new partnerships, RaaS relationships, retail offerings and referral programs; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments our ability to manage our existing business and future growth actual or reported disruptions or defects in our online marketplace, such as actual or perceived privacy or data security breaches economic and market conditions, particularly those affecting our industry; fluctuations in inventories held by primary sellers and related fluctuations in promotional activities and merchandise discounting; our ability to effectively manage our international operations; the impact of market volatility and economic downturns, including those caused by outbreaks of disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on our business adverse litigation judgments, other dispute-related settlement payments or other litigation-related costs; regulatory fines; changes in, and continuing uncertainty in relation to, the legislative or regulatory environment; legal and regulatory compliance costs; the number of new employees and professional contractors added; the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees, directors, contractors or consultants; pricing pressure as a result of competition, economic conditions, shipment delays or otherwise, including as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; costs and timing of expenses related to the acquisition of talent, technologies, intellectual property or businesses, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic; and general economic conditions throughout the world, including the inflation and interest rate environment, military conflicts, including Russias invasion of Ukraine, and geopolitical uncertainty and instability. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other key metrics for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. We may not be able to continue to improve our distribution center operations, attract and retain personnel to efficiently and effectively manage the operations required to process, itemize, list, sell, pack and ship secondhand and resale items or identify and lease distribution centers in geographic regions that enable us to effectively scale our operations. 15 Table of Contents We lease facilities to store and accommodate the logistics infrastructure required to process, itemize, list, sell, pack and ship the secondhand and resale items we sell through our marketplaces and related channels of distribution, including our RaaS offerings. To grow our business, we must continue to improve our distribution center operations, proprietary software and systems, and personnel in the geographic regions that have the resources necessary to effectively operate our business. The operation of our business is complex and requires the coordination of multiple functions that are highly dependent on numerous employees and personnel. Each item that we offer through our marketplaces is unique and requires multiple touch points, including inspection, evaluation, photography, pricing, application of a unique SKU, and fulfillment. This process is complex and we have in the past, and may continue to have more Clean Out Kits from sellers than we can timely process. Further, the market for employees is competitive and is highly dependent on geographic location. We have and could in the future be required to raise wages or introduce other compensation incentives to remain competitive, possibly without increasing productivity or sales, for example due to inflation, any of which could increase our costs and harm our results of operations. If we fail to effectively locate, hire and retain such personnel, our operations could be negatively impacted, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, the success of our business depends on our ability to maintain our current distribution centers and, in the future, secure additional distribution centers that meet our business needs and are also in geographic locations with access to a large, qualified talent pool. We have distribution centers across four strategic U.S. locations: Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania and Texas. Space in well-positioned geographic locations is becoming increasingly scarce, and where it is available, the lease terms offered by landlords are increasingly competitive, particularly in geographic locations with access to the large, qualified talent pools required for us to run our logistics infrastructure. Incentives currently offered by local, state and federal entities to offset operating expenses may be reduced or become unavailable. Companies who have more financial resources and negotiating leverage than us may be more attractive tenants and, as a result, may outbid us for the facilities we seek. Due to the competitive nature of the real estate market in the locations where we currently operate, we may be unable to renew our existing leases or renew them on satisfactory terms. Failure to identify and secure adequate new distribution centers in optimal geographic locations in the future or maintain our current distribution centers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not realize expected savings or benefits from restructuring activities. We have entered into restructuring activities and may enter into additional restructuring initiatives in the future to improve our operations, respond to changes in business conditions and markets and to streamline certain key functions to reduce costs. We may not realize expected savings or benefits from restructuring activities, incur additional restructuring charges and experience loss of key personnel, disruptions in our operations, and difficulties in the timely delivery of products. These factors could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully leverage technology to automate and drive efficiencies in our operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We are continuing to build automation, machine learning and other capabilities to drive efficiencies in our distribution center operations. As we continue to enhance automation and add capabilities, our operations may become increasingly complex. While we expect these technologies to improve productivity in many of our merchandising operations, including processing, itemizing, listing and selling, any flaws, bugs or failures of such technologies could cause interruptions in and delays to our operations, which may harm our business. We are increasing our investment in technology, software and systems to support these efforts, but such investments may not increase productivity, maintain or improve the experience for buyers and sellers or result in more efficient operations. While we have created our own proprietary technology to operate our business, we also rely on technology from third parties. For example, to run our inbound operations, we leverage third-party machine learning software that analyzes data that we use in our proprietary algorithms for determining the optimal list price. We have also integrated third-party software to help operate our automated carousels and conveyors in our distribution centers. If these technologies do not increase our operational efficiency in accordance with our expectations, third parties change the terms and conditions that govern their relationships with us, or if competition increases for the technology and services provided by third parties, our business may be harmed. If we are no longer able to rely on such third parties, we would be required to either seek licenses to technologies or services from other third parties and redesign aspects of business and operations to function with such technologies or services or develop such technologies ourselves, either of which would result in increased costs and could result in operational delays until equivalent technologies can be licensed or developed and integrated into our business and operations. In addition, if we are unable to enhance automation to our operations, we may be unable to reduce the costs of processing supply and fulfilling orders, which could cause delays in buyers receiving their purchases and sellers receiving their payouts. As a result, our reputation and our relationships with our buyers and sellers could be harmed, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents National retailers and brands set their own retail prices and promotional discounts on new items, which could adversely affect our value proposition to buyers and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. National retailers and brands set pricing for their own new retail items, which can include promotional discounts. Promotional pricing by these parties may adversely affect the relative value of secondhand items offered for resale with us, and, in turn, our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. In order to attract buyers to our marketplaces, the prices for the secondhand and resale items sold through our marketplaces may need to be lowered in order to compete with pricing strategies employed by national retailers and brands for their own new retail items, which could negatively affect revenue growth, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced a reduction in our revenue in the past due to reductions and fluctuations in the price of new retail items sold by national retailers and brands, and we anticipate similar reductions and fluctuations could occur in the future, such as due to a decrease in the price of new retail items in light of economic downturns, including in response to pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, macroeconomic uncertainty, inflation or other geopolitical instability. These pricing changes and promotional discounts could, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic and this contagious disease outbreak has continued to spread. The related public health measures, including orders to shelter-in-place, travel restrictions, mandated business closures and vaccination mandates, have adversely affected work forces, organizations, customers, economies and financial markets globally, leading to increased market volatility. The fear associated with pandemics such as COVID-19 and the reactions of governments around the world in response to such pandemics, which include regulating the flow of labor and products and impeding the travel of individuals, have and may continue to impact our ability to conduct normal business operations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. For example, in 2021, due to shelter-in-place orders and mandatory business closures, for a period of time, we were required to limit operations at our distribution centers, resulting in a delay in our ability to process our Clean Out Kits. Additionally, we were required to implement enhanced safety and cleaning measures, resulting in increased costs and reduced profitability. Federal, state and local COVID-19 regulations may continue to evolve and we cannot predict what policies we may determine to, or be required to, implement in the future, or the effect thereof on our business, including whether the imposition of certain policies could cause us to result in attrition and impede our ability to recruit and retain our workforce. Disruptions to our business operations have included and could include personnel absences, temporary closures of our distribution centers, further or ongoing reduced capacity at our distribution centers, delays in processing Clean Out Kits shipped by sellers to us, delays in our shipment of items purchased by our buyers, a slow-down in our ability to hire if we are unable to interview candidates in person, decreased foot traffic at and/or closure of our and our RaaS clients physical retail locations, disruptions in internet connections and a decrease or volatile patterns in spending on retail in general. For instance, decreased processing capacity at our distribution centers during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in fewer items being listed as available for sale, which adversely impacted our revenue growth. If a critical number of our employees become too ill to work or are unable to work due to personal reasons related to the effects of COVID-19, our ability to process merchandise through our distribution centers could be significantly slowed or halted. Our third-party vendors and partners have also experienced and may continue to experience disruptions to their business operations, which in turn affects us. Further, developing various responses to the challenges caused by COVID-19 and its effects has and may continue to divert the attention of our management team. The continued scope and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic (including any new strains or variants of the virus), whether additional actions may be taken to contain the virus, the impact on our buyers, sellers and RaaS clients, the speed and extent to which markets fully recover from the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the impact of these factors on our business, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with precision. In addition, to the extent COVID-19 adversely affects our operations and global economic conditions more generally, it may heighten other risks disclosed in this report. Public health concerns, such as COVID-19, have resulted and could continue to result in social, economic and labor instability in the localities in which we or our vendors, buyers and sellers reside. Any of these uncertainties and actions we take to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 and uncertainties related to COVID-19 could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We use data science to predict buyer and seller preferences, and if we do not accurately predict evolving preferences of our buyers and sellers it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success is in large part dependent upon our ability to anticipate and identify trends in the market for secondhand items in a timely manner and to obtain a supply of secondhand items that addresses those trends by attracting and retaining sellers who send in high-quality secondhand items. We use data science to predict buyer and seller preferences, which we in turn use to ensure our buyers are looking at secondhand items that they are interested in purchasing on our marketplaces. There can be no assurance that our data science will accurately anticipate buyer or seller preferences and, if our predictions are inaccurate, we will not be able to optimize our buyers and sellers experience on our marketplaces. Lead times relating to these changing preferences may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing trends. We have begun to expand our offerings beyond our core marketplace and to expand our RaaS offerings and the impact on our business from these new offerings and RaaS offerings is not clear as it is difficult to accurately predict buyer and seller preferences. To the extent we do not accurately predict the evolving preferences of our buyers and sellers, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience damage or destruction to our distribution centers in which we store all of the secondhand and resale items we offer through our marketplaces, which may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We store the majority of the secondhand items we offer through our marketplaces in our current distribution centers in Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania and Texas. Our distribution centers, as well as our headquarters, are located in areas that have a history of natural disasters, including severe weather events, rendering our distribution centers vulnerable to damage. Any large-scale damage to or catastrophic loss of secondhand and resale items stored in one of our distribution centers, due to natural disasters or man-made disasters such as arson, theft or otherwise would result in liability to our sellers for the expected payout commission liability for the lost items, reduction in the value of our inventory and a significant disruption to our business. Additionally, given the nature of the unique selection of secondhand and resale items we offer on our marketplaces, our ability to restore such secondhand items on our marketplaces would take time and would result in a limitation and delay of available supply for buyers, which would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. Further, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires, floods and other adverse weather and climate conditions unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics political crises, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine, terrorist attacks, war and other political instability or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the United States or internationally, could disrupt our operations in any of our offices and distribution centers or the operations of one or more of our third-party providers or vendors. Further, while we carry insurance for the secondhand and resale items in our distribution centers, the number of carriers which provide for such insurance has declined, which has resulted in increased premiums and deductibles. The insurance we do carry may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms and, in any event, may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our business could suffer. In the event that we suffer a catastrophic loss of any or all of our distribution centers and the secondhand items in such facilities, our liabilities may exceed the maximum insurance coverage amount, which would harm our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Shipping is a critical part of our business and any changes in our shipping arrangements or any interruptions in shipping could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely on both national and regional vendors for our shipping of purchases to buyers and the shipping of supplied secondhand items by sellers. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable pricing and other terms with these vendors or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our business and results of operations and negatively affect the experiences of our buyers and sellers, which could affect the degree to which they continue to buy and supply secondhand items on our marketplaces. For instance, our current shipping arrangement with FedEx Corporation (FedEx) includes volume based pricing incentives and discounts. If we fall below the volume threshold under our arrangement with FedEx, either due to a decrease in outbound shipments from our distribution centers, or because we meet our shipping needs with other carriers aside from FedEx, then we would no longer benefit from the FedEx discount, thereby leading to an increase in our shipping costs. In addition, our ability to receive inbound secondhand items efficiently and ship secondhand items to buyers may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, or acts of war or terrorism. Disruption to delivery services due to inclement weather could result in delays that could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. If our secondhand items are not delivered in a timely fashion or are damaged or lost during the supply or the delivery process, our buyers or sellers could become dissatisfied and cease using our marketplaces, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the current volatility in the global oil markets has resulted in higher fuel prices, which many shipping companies have passed on to their customers by way of increased fuel surcharges. We have recently experienced increased shipping costs as a result, and these costs may continue to increase in the future. In May 2022, partly as a result of rising costs, we announced a price increase in standard shipping fees for our customers. In the future, however, we may not be able to pass such increases on to our customers. Our advertising activity and strategic RaaS offerings may fail to efficiently drive growth in buyers and sellers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future growth and potential profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising, promotion, public relations and marketing programs as well as our strategic RaaS offerings, and we are investing heavily in these activities. Our advertising activities may not yield increased revenue and the efficacy of these activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: determine the effective creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; select the right markets, media and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; and effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, to maintain acceptable buyer and seller acquisition costs. We closely monitor the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and changes in the advertising market, and adjust or re-allocate our advertising spend across channels, customer segments and geographic markets in real-time to optimize the effectiveness of these activities. For instance, we have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, variability in the number of customers we are able to reach in our email marketing campaigns. We expect to increase advertising spend in future periods to continue driving our growth. We have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels. These pricing increases could increase our marketing and advertising expenses or cause us to choose less expensive but possibly less effective marketing and advertising channels. If we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may incur significantly higher costs than our current channels, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations. Implementing new marketing and advertising strategies also could increase the risk of devoting significant capital and other resources to endeavors that do not prove to be cost effective. We also may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not generate sufficient levels of brand awareness or result in increased revenue. Even if our marketing and advertising expenses result in increased sales, the increase might not offset our related expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace or supplement existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly or more effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our buyer and seller base could be adversely affected, our brand could suffer and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. 19 Table of Contents We have invested and expect to continue to invest significant time and resources into our RaaS offerings and our RaaS clients include national retail stores, premium fashion brands, fashion-focused e-commerce sites and marketplaces for the buying and selling of secondhand items. We maintain a robust and varied set of RaaS offerings including provision of our Clean Out Kits at our RaaS clients retail stores, our cash out marketplace offering, white-label resale shops, the resale of worn retail items provided to us by our RaaS clients and cross-listing our products on our RaaS clients websites. To grow our business and build out our marketplaces, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with third parties. Identifying RaaS clients, and negotiating, documenting and maintaining relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. Further, our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their offerings over our marketplaces, mobile application or in-store offerings. There is significant uncertainty around the future profitability of our RaaS offerings and whether they will result in an increased number of new and repeat buyers, an increased number of new and repeat sellers selling high-quality secondhand items, increased awareness of our brand and an additional source of revenue. Further, if the retail industry suffers in general, there may be fewer customers visiting our RaaS clients retail stores, our RaaS clients may discontinue their white-label resale shops in an effort to cut back newer partnerships, and therefore our kit distribution offering for gift cards to our clients stores could be less desirable. Additionally, our RaaS clients could go out of business or declare bankruptcy. If our RaaS offerings are not profitable and do not result in us acquiring a high-quality supply of secondhand items from our RaaS clients and/or their customers, who become our sellers, and reaching additional buyers, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depend on demand for our platform and our ability to hire and retain personnel, including employees and international contractors. Current or future economic uncertainties or downturns could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Weak or volatile economic conditions in the global economy or individual markets, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, inflation, labor shortages, political turmoil, natural catastrophes, warfare and terrorist attacks on the United States and in the European region or elsewhere, and other events outside of our control could cause customers and prospective customers to reduce spending, and demand for our offerings may decline. Additionally, economic downturns could result in our RaaS relationships terminating or limiting their arrangements with us as retailers focus on general cost reductions in the face of macroeconomic uncertainty. Furthermore, weak economic conditions may make it more difficult to collect on outstanding accounts receivable and may increase our expenses. If our customers reduce their spending on our products, or prospective customers delay spending on our products, as a result of a weak economy, this could adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, given our investment in our software development capabilities in Ukraine, political turmoil, warfare, or terrorist attacks in Ukraine could negatively affect our business. Political and military events in Ukraine, including the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, as well as ongoing tensions and intermittent warfare between Ukraine and Russia since the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea, challenging relations between the United States and its allies, and Russia, and sanctions by the United States and the EU against Russia may also have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the conflict in the Ukraine persists and our Ukrainian personnel are unable to work as a result, our results of our operations and our financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to drive traffic to our website and mobile application, and these providers may change their algorithms or pricing in ways that could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We rely in part on digital advertising, including search engine marketing and social media advertising, to promote awareness of our marketplaces, grow our business, attract new buyers and sellers and retain existing buyers and sellers. In particular, we rely on search engines, such as Google, the major mobile application stores and social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram as important marketing channels. In addition to purchasing traditional advertising space on search engines and social media platforms, we also partner with influencers who promote their buying and selling of secondhand and resale items through our marketplaces to their followers. Search engine companies, social media platforms or mobile application stores that we advertise our marketplaces through may determine that we are not in compliance with their guidelines and penalize us as a result. If search engines or social media platforms change their algorithms, terms of service, display or the featuring of search results, determine we are out of compliance with their terms of service or if competition increases for advertisements, we may be unable to cost-effectively add buyers and sellers to our website and mobile application. Further, changes to third-party policies that limit our ability to deliver, target or measure the effectiveness of advertising, including changes by mobile operating system and browser providers such as Apple and Google, could reduce the effectiveness of our marketing. We also cannot accurately predict if the followers of our influencer partners will be interested in buying and selling through our marketplaces, or if our influencer partners will maintain their follower numbers throughout the time of our partnerships. Our relationships with our marketing vendors are not long-term in nature and do not require any specific performance commitments. In addition, many of our online advertising vendors provide advertising services to other companies, including companies with whom we may compete. As competition for online advertising has increased, the cost for some of these services has also increased. Our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive and generating a return on those initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of our paid marketing efforts, such increase may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur. We may not succeed in promoting and maintaining our brand and reputation, which could harm our business and future growth. We believe that maintaining our brand and reputation is critical to driving buyer and seller engagement. An important goal of our brand promotion strategy is establishing trust with our buyers and sellers. For buyers, maintaining our brand and reputation requires that we foster trust through timely and reliable fulfillment of orders, responsive and effective customer service, a broad supply of desirable brands and secondhand items and an exciting and user-friendly interface on our marketplaces and through our RaaS relationships. For sellers, maintaining our brand and reputation requires that we balance desirable supply for our buyers with a convenient seller service that is consistent and timely. It also requires that we foster trust through consistent and transparent acceptance, payout and return processes and policies for secondhand items supplied to us, payouts that our sellers perceive to be adequate compensation for their items and responsive and effective customer service. For example, in 2022, we implemented a fee for sellers to order a Clean Out Kit and made changes to our return policy, which have led and could potentially in the future lead to an increase in customer service requests from both our buyers and our sellers. If we fail to provide buyers or sellers with the service and experience they expect, or we experience buyer or seller dissatisfaction or negative publicity about our marketplace services, merchandise, delivery times or customer support, whether justified or not, the value of our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could harm our business and future growth. Further, any unanticipated increase in customer service inquiries from our customers has in the past, and may in the future, result in a slower response time from our customer service team and lead to an increase in customer complaints. For example, disruption to processing of Clean Out Kits and distribution caused by a backlog of Clean Out Kits has led and could potentially lead to additional delays in our ability to process secondhand items sellers send in for resale, resulting in delays in sellers receiving payouts and less refreshing of our supply on our marketplaces, and could harm our brand and reputation. 21 Table of Contents Future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement our business, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. Any acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. In addition, our due diligence could fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or issues with employees, partners or customers. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate successfully the acquired personnel, operations, systems and technologies, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. Specifically, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired business, operations, systems, technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. If we are unsuccessful at integrating such acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and results of operations of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. We may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any one target. Acquisitions could also result in significant payments of cash by us, dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities or the incurrence of debt, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, the incurrence of debt would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We have previously sought, and may in the future seek, to make strategic investments in companies developing products or technologies that we believe could complement our business, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. These investments may be in early stage private companies for restricted stock. Such investments are generally illiquid and may never generate value. Further, the companies in which we invest may not succeed, and our investments could lose all of their value. Our failure to address these risks or other issues encountered in connection with acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. Certain estimates of our buyer metrics included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Certain metrics presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the numbers of Active Buyers, are based on internal company data, assumptions and estimates and we use these numbers in managing our business. We believe that these figures are reasonable estimates, and we take measures to improve their accuracy, such as eliminating known fictitious or duplicate accounts. There are, however, inherent challenges in gathering accurate data across large online and mobile populations. For example, there may be individuals who have multiple email accounts in violation of our terms of service, despite our efforts to detect and enforce our terms of service. If individuals have multiple unique email addresses that are undetected, then we could be overestimating the number of Active Buyers. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating these metrics to improve their accuracy. If investors or analysts do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations of our business, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 22 Table of Contents Greater than expected item return rates have, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenue. We allow buyers to return certain purchases from our website and mobile application under our return policy. We record a reserve for returns against proceeds to us from the resale of items on our marketplaces in calculating revenue. We estimate this reserve based on historical return trends. The introduction of new products in the retail market, changes in consumer confidence or other competitive and general economic conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, actual returns to exceed our reserve for return rates. Further, we believe that on a macro level across e-commerce platforms, without the ability to try on items such as clothing and shoes, customers are increasingly accustomed to over-purchasing with the intent to return items, which has caused an increase in returns and may in the future continue to increase our amount of return rates. In addition, from time to time, the secondhand items sold through our marketplaces are damaged in transit which can increase return rates, increase our costs and harm our brand. Returned items may also be damaged in transit as part of the return process, which can significantly impact the price we are able to charge for such items on our marketplaces. Any significant increase in returns that exceeds our reserves could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. As an online secondhand marketplace, our success depends on the accuracy of our item acceptance process. Failure by us to identify counterfeit or stolen retail items could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to liability for the resale of counterfeit or stolen items. Our success may depend on our ability to accurately and cost-effectively determine whether a secondhand item offered for resale is an authentic product. From time to time we receive secondhand items through our sellers which may be counterfeit or which we are otherwise unable to authenticate. While we have invested in our authentication processes and we reject any items we cannot authenticate, we cannot be certain that we will identify every counterfeit item that is supplied to us. As the sophistication of counterfeiters increases, it may be increasingly difficult to authenticate products and/or identify counterfeit products. While we refund the cost of an item to a buyer if the buyer questions its authenticity and returns the item, the resale of any counterfeit items may nonetheless damage our reputation as a trusted marketplace for secondhand items, which may impact our ability to attract and maintain repeat buyers and sellers. We may also be subject to allegations that an item we sold is not authentic despite our efforts to inspect such item and/or our general authentication practices. Such controversy could negatively impact our reputation and brand and harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, we may fail to prevent sellers from supplying stolen items. Government regulators and law enforcement officials may allege that our services violate, or aid and abet violations of certain laws, including laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability and, by extension, the resale, of stolen items. Our terms include a representation that the seller has the necessary right and title to the secondhand items they may resell, and otherwise prohibit the listing of stolen or otherwise illegal products. If these terms prove inadequate to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures which could negatively impact our operations. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual resale of stolen items could harm our business. In addition, negative publicity relating to the actual or perceived listing or resale of stolen items using our services could damage our reputation and make our buyers and sellers reluctant to use our services. To the extent any of this occurs, it could harm our business or damage our reputation and we could face liability for such unlawful activities. Despite measures taken by us to detect stolen items, to cooperate fully with law enforcement, and to respond to inquiries regarding potentially stolen items, any resulting claims or liabilities could harm our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Information Technology, Intellectual Property, Data Security and Privacy Compromises of our data security could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and may materially harm our reputation and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process and store certain personal information and other data relating to individuals, such as our buyers, sellers and employees. We also maintain other information, such as our trade secrets and confidential business information and certain confidential information of third parties, that is sensitive and that we seek to protect. We rely substantially on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for our processing, transmission and storage of personal information and other confidential information. We or our vendors have been in the past and could be in the future the subject of hacking, social engineering, phishing, ransomware or other attacks. Due to these or other causes, we or our vendors have in the past and may in the future suffer a data breach or other security incident. These incidents have allowed, and may in the future continue to allow, hackers or other unauthorized parties to gain access to personal information or other data, source code, payment card data or confidential business information, and we might not discover such issues for an extended period. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target. As a result, we and our vendors may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our employees, contractors, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent security measures in order to misappropriate such personal information, confidential information or other data, or may inadvertently release or compromise such data. We expect to incur ongoing and increasing costs associated with the detection and prevention of security breaches and other security-related incidents. We may incur additional costs in the event of a security breach or other security-related incident. Any actual or perceived compromise of our systems or data security measures or those of third parties with whom we do business, or any failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or other confidential information and delays in detecting or providing notice of any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, harm the perception of our security measures, damage our reputation, cause some participants to decrease or stop their use of our marketplaces and subject us to litigation, government action, increased transaction fees, regulatory fines or penalties or other additional costs and liabilities that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. With many of our employees and contractors now working remotely, and as our vendors and other business partners have also moved to permanent or hybrid remote work, we and our vendors may be more vulnerable to cyberattacks. We are taking steps to monitor and enhance the security of our systems, information technology infrastructure, networks, and data, including with respect to remote access to systems and data. However, the increased scale of remote work may require additional personnel and resources, which nevertheless cannot be guaranteed to fully safeguard all systems, information technology infrastructure, networks and data upon which we rely. Further, due to political uncertainty and military actions associated with Russias invasion of Ukraine, we and our vendors and service providers are vulnerable to heightened risks of cybersecurity incidents and security and privacy breaches from or affiliated with nation-state actors. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. 24 Table of Contents Our use and other processing of personal information and other data is subject to laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection and information security. Changes in such laws or regulations, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations, our privacy policies and/or contractual obligations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We collect, maintain and otherwise process significant amounts of personal information and other data relating to our buyers, sellers, clients and employees. Numerous state, federal and international laws, rules and regulations govern the collection, use and protection of personal information and other types of data we collect, use, disclose and otherwise process. Such requirements are constantly evolving, and we expect that there will continue to be new proposed requirements relating to privacy, data protection and information security in the United States and other jurisdictions, or changes in the interpretation of existing privacy requirements. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA) took effect on January 1, 2020 and broadly defines personal information, imposes stringent consumer data protection requirements, gives California residents expanded privacy rights, provides for civil penalties for violations and introduces a private right of action for data breaches. Additionally, on November 3, 2020, Proposition 24 was approved in California which creates a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA). The CPRA creates additional obligations relating to processing and safeguarding personal information that took effect on January 1, 2023 (with certain provisions having retroactive effect to January 1, 2022). The CPRAs implementing regulations have not yet been finalized, but enforcement is scheduled to begin July 1, 2023. The California Attorney General may independently bring administrative actions for civil penalties of $2,500 per violation, or up to $7,500 per violation if intentional. We will continue to monitor developments related to the CPRA and anticipate additional costs and expenses associated with CPRA compliance. Additionally, the CCPA has prompted other states, including Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah to propose and enact similar laws and regulations relating to privacy. For example, in March 2021, Virginia enacted the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (the CDPA), which became effective January 1, 2023, and on June 8, 2021, Colorado enacted the Colorado Privacy Act (the CPA), which takes effect on July 1, 2023. The CDPA and CPA share similarities with the CCPA, the CPRA, and legislation proposed and enacted in other states. Aspects of these state privacy laws, and their interpretation, remain unclear, and we cannot yet fully predict the impact of these laws or regulations on our business or operations. Further, as our operations expand internationally, including in connection with the Remix Acquisition, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. Regulatory authorities in the European Economic Area, United Kingdom and Switzerland, for example, traditionally have imposed stricter obligations under laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. For example, in May 2018, the European Unions regulation governing data practices and privacy in these jurisdictions called the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), became effective. The GDPR requires companies to meet stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data of individuals in the relevant jurisdictions. The GDPR provides for substantial penalties for non-compliance, which may result in monetary penalties of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of a companys worldwide turnover, whichever is greater. Aspects of data protection laws and regulations in Europe, including those relating to cross-border data transfer and the use of cookies, are evolving rapidly and remain subject to substantial uncertainty. Additionally, many other international jurisdictions have laws, regulations, or other requirements relating to privacy, data protection, information security, and localized storage of data, and new countries and territories are adopting such legislation or other obligations with increasing frequency. There is no harmonized approach to these laws and regulations globally. Consequently, international expansion, including in connection with the Remix Acquisition, increases our risk of non-compliance with applicable foreign data protection laws and regulations. Future requirements, or changes in the interpretation of existing requirements, relating to privacy, data protection and information security may require us to implement, enhance or modify privacy and security policies, provide certain types of notices, grant certain rights to individuals, inform individuals of security breaches, and, in some cases, obtain individuals consent to use personal data for certain purposes. These requirements may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, subject to differing interpretations and may be interpreted to conflict with our practices. We cannot yet fully determine the impact that such future requirements may have on our business or operations. Additionally, we are subject to the terms of our privacy policies and notices and may be bound by contractual requirements applicable to our collection, use, processing, security and disclosure of personal information, and may be bound by or alleged to be subject to, or voluntarily comply with, self-regulatory or other industry standards relating to these matters. 25 Table of Contents Any failure or perceived failure by us or any third parties with which we do business to comply with these privacy requirements, with our posted privacy policies or with other obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject relating to privacy, data protection or information security, may result in investigations or enforcement actions against us by governmental entities, private claims, public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and fines, penalties or other liabilities. For example, California consumers whose information has been subject to a security incident may bring civil suits under the CCPA, for statutory damages between $100 and $750 per consumer. Any such action would be expensive to defend, likely would damage our reputation and market position, could result in substantial liability and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, in view of new or modified requirements relating to privacy, data protection or information security, contractual obligations and other legal obligations, or any changes in their interpretation, we may find it necessary or desirable to fundamentally change our business activities and practices, and to expend significant resources to adapt to these changes. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new features could be limited. Privacy, data protection and information security concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit the use and growth of our RaaS product offerings and marketplace, particularly in certain foreign countries. Additionally, public scrutiny of or complaints about technology companies or their data practices, even if unrelated to our business, industry, or operations, may lead to increased scrutiny of technology companies, including us, and may cause government agencies to enact additional regulatory requirements, or to modify their enforcement or investigation activities, which may increase our costs and risks. Interruptions or delays in the services provided by third-party data centers, Internet service providers, our managed infrastructure or our payment processors could prevent existing and potential buyers and sellers from accessing our marketplaces, and our business could suffer. Our reputation and ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers depends in part on the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery process. We have experienced, and expect that in the future we may experience, interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website hosting disruptions and capacity constraints which could affect the availability of services on our marketplaces and prevent or inhibit the ability of buyers to access our marketplaces or complete purchases on our marketplaces through our website or mobile application. We currently host our domestic core marketplace and support our operations using Amazon Web Services (AWS) data centers, a provider of cloud infrastructure services. In addition, we currently host our RaaS websites using the Shopify Inc. e-commerce platform (Shopify) and our Remix platform through a separately managed infrastructure vendor, with a data center located in the European Union (together with AWS and Shopify, our third-party infrastructure services). Our operations depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructures hosted in AWS and Shopify by maintaining their configuration, architecture and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and which third-party Internet service providers transmit. Furthermore, we have no physical access or control over the third-party infrastructure services we engage. Although we have disaster recovery plans that utilize multiple third-party infrastructure service locations, the data centers that we use, including the Remix data center in the European Union are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe storms, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, many of which are beyond our control, any of which could disrupt our service, destroy user content, or prevent us from being able to continuously back up or record changes in our users content. In the event of significant physical damage to one of these data centers, it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our marketplaces, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. Further, a prolonged third-party infrastructure service disruption affecting our core marketplace, RaaS websites or our Remix platform could damage our reputation with current buyers, sellers and RaaS clients, expose us to liability, make it difficult to attract and retain new and existing buyers, sellers and RaaS clients, or otherwise harm our business. In particular, volume of traffic and activity on our marketplace spikes on certain days and during certain periods of the year, such as during a holiday promotion. Any interruption to the availability of our marketplaces would be particularly problematic if it were to occur at such a high-volume time. In addition, we use multiple third-party payment processors to process payments made by buyers or to sellers on our marketplaces. Any disruption or failure in the services we receive from our third-party payment processors could prevent us from being able to effectively operate our marketplaces and likewise could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If our third-party infrastructure services or our third-party payment processors terminate their relationships with us or refuse to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would need to find alternative data centers, Internet service providers and third-party payment processors and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such payment processors in an acceptable timeframe. Further, the services provided by such alternate providers may not meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised or experience outages. In particular, should we or our third-party infrastructure services decide to terminate our contract for infrastructure services for any reason, transitioning our infrastructure to an alternative provider could potentially be disruptive, and we may incur significant costs for a short period of time. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to accept online payments, make payments to sellers or conduct other payment transactions, any of which could make our marketplaces less convenient and attractive and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Activity on mobile devices by buyers and sellers depends upon effective use of mobile operating systems, networks and standards that we do not control. Purchases using mobile devices by buyers and sellers generally, and by our buyers and sellers specifically, have increased significantly, and we expect this trend to continue. To optimize the mobile shopping experience, we are dependent on our buyers and sellers downloading our specific mobile applications for their particular device or accessing our sites from an Internet browser on their mobile device. As new mobile devices and platforms are released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing applications for these alternative devices and platforms, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such applications. In addition, our future growth and our results of operations could suffer if we experience difficulties in the future in integrating our mobile applications into mobile devices, if problems arise with our relationships with providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores, such as those of Apple or Google, if our applications receive unfavorable treatment compared to competing applications, such as the order of our mobile application in the Apple App Store or Google Play, if we face increased costs to distribute or have buyers and sellers use our mobile applications or if our mobile application is no longer available with certain providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores. We are further dependent on the interoperability of our sites with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as iOS and Android, and any changes in such systems that degrade the functionality of our sites or give preferential treatment to competitors could adversely affect the usage of our sites on mobile devices. In the event that it is more difficult for our buyers and sellers to access and use our sites on mobile devices, or if our buyers and sellers choose not to access or to use our sites on their mobile devices or to use mobile products that do not offer access to our sites, this could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be accused of infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. We have been in the past and may be accused in the future of infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties, including but not limited to third party claims alleging that we have infringed their copyrights, trademarks or patents, or improperly used or disclosed their trade secrets, or otherwise infringed or violated their proprietary rights, such as the right of publicity. For example, although we require our employees to not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may become subject to claims that these employees have divulged, or we have used, proprietary information of these employees former employers. In addition, we may become subject to claims by third parties who assert that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights by listing items bearing their trademark, trade dress and/or copyrighted works. The costs of supporting any litigation or disputes related to these claims can be considerable, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve a favorable outcome of any such claim. If any such claim is valid or otherwise successful, we may be compelled to cease our use of such intellectual property or other proprietary rights and pay damages, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, if such claims are valid or otherwise successful, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel, which could harm our business. Even if such claims were not valid, defending them could be expensive and distracting, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, contractual protections and other practices to protect our brand, proprietary information, technologies and processes. We primarily rely on patent, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, including the automated operations systems and machine learning technology we use throughout our business. Others may independently develop the same or similar technologies and processes or may improperly acquire and use information about our technologies and processes, which may allow them to provide a service similar to ours, which could harm our competitive position. Further, to the extent we pursue patent protection for our innovations, patents we may apply for may not issue, and patents that do issue or that we acquire may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. There can be no assurance that any patents we obtain will adequately protect our inventions or survive a legal challenge, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. We rely on trademark and trade dress to protect our brand. Our principal trademark assets include the registered trademarks THREDUP and Think Secondhand First and our logos and taglines. Our trademarks are valuable assets that support our brand and buyers perception of our services and merchandise. We have registered trademarks in Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States. We also hold the rights to the thredup.com Internet domain name and various related domain names, which are subject to Internet regulatory bodies and trademark and other related laws of each applicable jurisdiction. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or domain names, our brand recognition and reputation would suffer, we would incur significant expense establishing new brands and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. We rely in part on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other confidential information to maintain our competitive position. Although we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships, partnerships and business alliances, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our automation technologies or technologies related to our marketplaces. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. The efforts we take may not be sufficient and/or we may or may not be able to detect all infringement of violation of our intellectual property rights by third parties. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our platform, impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new capabilities, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our business, or injure our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new capabilities, and we cannot assure you that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and our inability to license this technology could harm our ability to compete, business and results of operations. We use open source software in our marketplaces, which could negatively affect our ability to operate our business and subject us to litigation or other actions. 28 Table of Contents We use open source software to facilitate the development and operation of our marketplaces, including our website and mobile application, and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging both the use of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products and whether such use is permissible under various open source licenses. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to operate our marketplaces. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or breach of open source licenses. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our marketplaces. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary source code or software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with less development effort and time. If we inappropriately use open source software, or if the license terms for open source software that we use change, we may be required to re-engineer our marketplaces, or certain aspects of our marketplaces, incur additional costs, or take other remedial actions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or assurance of title or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, but we cannot be sure that all of our use of open source software is in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures or will not subject us to liability. These risks associated with usage of open source software, such as the lack of warranties or assurances of title, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business and results of operations. We rely on software, services and technology from other parties. Defects in or the loss of access to software, services or technology from third parties could increase our costs and adversely affect the quality of our products. We rely on technologies from third parties to operate critical functions of our business, including cloud infrastructure services, payment processing services, certain aspects of distribution center automation and customer relationship management services. We also use Google services for our business emails, file storage and communications. Our business would be disrupted if any of the third-party software, services or other technology we utilize, or functional equivalents thereof, were unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices. In each case, we would be required to either seek licenses or other rights to different software, services or technology from third parties and redesign our business and marketplace to function with such other software, services or technology or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in the launch of new offerings on our marketplaces until equivalent software, services and/or technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our business and marketplace. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. These delays and feature limitations, if they occur, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity and scalability of our systems and infrastructures as well as our ability to integrate with our partners. System interruption and the lack of integration, redundancy and scalability in these systems and infrastructures may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure, including our website and mobile app, information and related systems. Further, to maintain our strategic relationships with our partners, our systems and infrastructure must be seamlessly integrated and interoperable with our partners systems, including those of our RaaS clients, which may cause us to incur significant upfront and maintenance costs as some of our RaaS offerings may involve development of a variety of technologies, data formats, applications, systems and infrastructure. System interruption and a lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructure may adversely affect our ability to operate our website or mobile app, process and fulfill transactions, maintain coordination between our website and those of certain of our RaaS clients, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. As our business has grown in size and complexity, the growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our information systems and infrastructure. To effectively manage this growth, we expect to commit significant financial resources and personnel to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop or acquire new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in our business and information processing technology as well as evolving industry, regulatory and accounting standards. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses is determined to be inaccurate or unreliable, or if we fail to properly maintain or enhance our internal information systems and infrastructure, we could experience operational disruptions, customer disputes, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, incur increased operating and administrative expenses, lose our ability to produce timely and accurate financial reports or suffer other adverse consequences which could harm our results of operations. We also rely on third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with providing access to our marketplaces generally. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems and infrastructure, our business and/or third parties or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructure, could impair our ability to provide access to our marketplaces. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, other natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, including ransomware attacks and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructure at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing access to our marketplaces. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, disaster recovery planning by its nature cannot be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Legal, Regulatory, Accounting and Tax Matters Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may cause us to fail to timely and accurately report our financial results or result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. In connection with the audit of our 2022 consolidated financial statements, and as previously described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 in connection with the audits of our consolidated financial statements in certain prior years, we and our independent registered public accounting firms identified control deficiencies in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting that constituted a material weakness, as further described in Item 9A.