Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRecent Business Developments for more information. Competition Although we have built a scaled and highly differentiated platform and managed marketplace, we face intense competition. Our competitors include other apparel retailers, particularly retailers at an off-price or fast-fashion price point, vendors of new and secondhand items, including branded goods stores, local, national and global department stores, traditional brick-and-mortar consignment and thrift stores, specialty retailers, direct-to-consumer retailers, discount chains, independent retail stores, the online offerings of these traditional retail competitors, resale players focused on niche or single categories, as well as technology-enabled marketplaces that may offer the same or similar goods and services that we offer. Competitors offering the same or similar goods or services include: secondhand marketplaces, such as eBay, Goodwill, Mercari, Poshmark, The RealReal, Vinted and Vestiaire Collective; large online and discount retailers, such as Amazon.com, Inc., Target Corporation, Kohls Corporation and Walmart Inc.; off-price retailers, such as Burlington Stores, Inc., Ross Stores, Inc. and The TJX Companies, Inc.; and low-cost online fast-fashion retailers such as Shein and Temu. Additionally, we experience competition for consumer discretionary spending from other product and experiential categories. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating To Our Business and IndustryThe market in which we participate is competitive and rapidly changing, and if we do not compete effectively with established companies as well as new market entrants or maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We compete primarily on the basis of buyer and seller experience, product quality and assortment, breadth of brand offering, convenience and price. We believe that we are able to compete effectively because we offer buyers a vast selection of high-quality, secondhand and resale items at compelling prices with a fun and easy to use interface. For sellers, we offer an easy, convenient, reliable and fast way to recycle and monetize or donate their secondhand items. Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, as well as other legal and contractual rights, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. 6 Table of Contents We have patents issued in the United States. These patents are intended to protect our proprietary inventions relevant to our business. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. In addition, our proprietary algorithm technologies, other than those incorporated into a patent application, are protected by trade secret laws. We also hold trademarks in the United States as well as in other jurisdictions. THREDUP and Think Secondhand First are our registered trademarks in the United States. We have additional registered trademarks in the United States and THREDUP is registered in certain other non-United States jurisdictions. We will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe they would be beneficial and cost-effective. Other trademarks and trade names referred to in this annual report are the property of their respective owners. We also have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as www.thredup.com and other variations. Regulation We are subject to a variety of United States federal and state laws as well as international laws that affect companies conducting business on the Internet and in the retail industry, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations include laws governing the processing of payments, consumer protection and other laws regarding unfair and deceptive trade practices. These laws and regulations could make internet advertising more expensive, require burdensome disclosure to consumers or visitors to our website and restrict our ability to use consumer information to improve targeted advertisements. Further, these laws and regulations are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently still evolving. Laws and regulations may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. We are also subject to federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy and protection of consumer information. Our privacy policies describe our practices concerning the use, storage, transmission and disclosure of personal information, including buyer and seller data. Any failure by us to comply with our policies or privacy related laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental authorities or others, which could harm our business. Many jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted laws and regulations requiring notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to practically implement. This growing focus on data privacy and regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us and could subject us to significant operational costs for internal compliance and risk to our business. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect the privacy and data of our sellers and buyers could result in a loss of confidence in our marketplaces, which could adversely affect our business. Apparel, shoes and accessories sold by us are also subject to regulation in the United States by governmental agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing and product safety. We are also subject to environmental laws, rules and regulations. Similarly, apparel, shoes and accessories sold by us are also subject to import regulations in the United States concerning the use of wildlife products for commercial and non-commercial trade, including the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in 2025 or in the near future. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had 1,630 employees and professional contractors, including 1,424 distribution center employees. To our knowledge, none of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We supplement our workforce with contractors and consultants in the United States and internationally, including Ukrainian engineering specialists. These Ukrainian IT specialists, who provide services on our behalf, are registered as private entrepreneurs with the tax authorities of Ukraine and operate as independent contractors. While we do not anticipate a reduction in force due to conflict in Ukraine, we anticipate that at least some of our Ukrainian IT specialists may be unable to work while the military conflict is unresolved. 7 Table of Contents Our human capital resources objective is to cultivate a high-performing team by recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and new employees and professional contractors. Our culture is underpinned by our core values, including an unwavering commitment to learning, development, inclusion, diversity, equity and belonging. We believe our people are our greatest asset and are reimagining our employee experience to reflect that philosophy. We work diligently to attract the best talent from a diverse range of sources in order to meet the current and future demands of our business. The core objective of our compensation program is to provide a package that will attract, motivate and reward exceptional employees who must operate in a highly competitive and technologically challenging environment. We believe that a unique perspective is critical to solving complex problems and inspiring the world to think secondhand first. We are proud to maintain a workforce that is majority female and underrepresented minorities. We are committed to identifying talent from a range of backgrounds and experiences. All full-time United States based employees are eligible to participate in our employee stock purchase plan, eight weeks paid sabbatical after three years and 401k plan. Available Information The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Our investor relations website is located at ir.thredup.com. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website, our Twitter account (@thredup), our LinkedIn account (https://www.linkedin.com/company/thredup) and our Chief Executive Officer's LinkedIn account (https://www.linkedin.com/in/jamesgreinhart/), as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines, composition of our board and its committees, and Code of Conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Corporate Information We were incorporated in 2009 under the name ThredUp Inc. as a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 969 Broadway, Suite 200, Oakland, CA 94607, and our telephone number is (415) 402-5202. Our website address is www.thredup.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe to be material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 8 Table of Contents Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in this section titled Risk Factors and summarized below. We have various categories of risks, including risks relating to our business and industry, risks relating to information technology, intellectual property, data security and privacy, risks relating to legal, regulatory, accounting and tax matters, risks relating to our indebtedness and liquidity and risks relating to ownership of our Class A common stock, which are discussed more fully below. As a result, this risk factor summary does not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read this risk factor summary together with the more detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties set forth following this section under the heading Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may apply to our business, activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Our continued growth depends on attracting new, and retaining existing, buyers. If we fail to attract a sufficient amount of high-quality and desirable secondhand items, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business, including our costs and supply of secondhand items, is subject to risks associated with sourcing, itemizing, warehousing and shipping. Our ability to incorporate artificial intelligence, machine learning and other emergent technologies into our business operations successfully may affect our reputation and results of operations. We have experienced growth in many of our recent periods and those growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We have a history of losses and we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future. We may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available or may be available only by diluting existing stockholders or on undesirable terms. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenue, plan our expenses and evaluate our business and future prospects. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. Our advertising activity and strategic RaaS offerings may fail to efficiently drive growth in buyers and sellers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions, divestitures, strategic investments, partnerships and alliances involve numerous risks and uncertainties, could divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to expand our distribution center operations, attract and retain personnel to efficiently and effectively manage the operations required to process, itemize, list, sell, pack and ship secondhand and resale items or identify and lease distribution centers in geographic regions that enable us to effectively scale our operations. Compromises of our data security could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and may materially harm our reputation and results of operations. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The dual-class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who held our capital stock prior to our Initial Public Offering (IPO), including our directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates. This ownership will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters, including the election of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, and any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other major corporate transactions requiring stockholder approval, and that may depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our continued growth depends on attracting new, and retaining existing, buyers. To expand our buyer base, we must appeal to and attract buyers who have historically purchased only new retail items or who used other means to purchase secondhand items, such as traditional brick-and-mortar thrift stores or the websites of other secondary marketplaces. We reach new buyers through paid search, social media, influencers, television and digital advertising, other paid marketing, press coverage, our RaaS offerings, referral programs, organic word of mouth and other methods of discovery, such as converting sellers to buyers. We expect to continue investing heavily in these and other marketing channels in the future and cannot be certain that these efforts will enable us to attract and retain more buyers, result in increased purchase frequency or order sizes from our buyers or be cost-effective. Our ability to attract and retain buyers also depends on our ability to offer a broad selection of desirable and high-quality secondhand and resale items on our marketplaces, the reliability of our shipping and delivery estimates, our ability to consistently provide high-quality customer experiences, our ability to promote and position our brand and marketplace and the success of our marketing efforts. Our investments in marketing may not effectively reach potential buyers and existing buyers, potential buyers or existing buyers may decide not to buy through us or the spend of buyers that purchase from us may not yield the intended return on investment, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, consumer preferences may change, and buyers may not purchase through our marketplaces as frequently or spend as much with us as historically has been the case. As a result, the revenue generated from buyer transactions in the future may not be as high as the revenue generated from transactions historically. Incidentally, an inability to attract and retain buyers could harm our ability to attract and retain sellers, who may decide to resell their items through alternative platforms or marketplaces. Consequently, failure to attract new buyers and to retain existing buyers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to attract a sufficient amount of high-quality and desirable secondhand items, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to cost-effectively attract high-quality secondhand items by attracting new sellers and retaining existing sellers, such that they choose ThredUp to list their items. Numerous factors, however, may impede our ability to attract new sellers and retain existing sellers with high-quality secondhand items. To expand our base of secondhand items for resale, as well as our base of sellers, we must appeal to and engage individuals new to selling secondhand items or who have sold secondhand items through traditional brick-and-mortar shops but are unfamiliar with our business. We find new sellers by converting buyers using our marketplaces, our RaaS offerings, referral programs, organic word of mouth and other methods of discovery, such as mentions in the press. We cannot be certain that these efforts will result in more supply of high-quality and desirable secondhand items or sellers or that these efforts will be cost-effective. Our ability to attract new and recurring high-quality and desirable secondhand items from new sellers and existing sellers depends on other factors, such as our ability to enhance and improve our marketplaces, our ability to process the items sent to us by sellers in a timely manner, sellers perceptions of whether payouts they are receiving are adequate and timely compensation for their items and the perceived quality of the items sold and purchased on our marketplaces. If we are unable to meet seller standards and drive repeat supply, our existing sellers may not choose to send us secondhand items for resale to the same extent, in terms of quality, value or volume, in the future. Further, failure to generate sufficient high-quality secondhand items and attract new sellers and retain existing sellers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For instance, if our sellers send lower quality or less desirable secondhand items that we are unable to resell in our marketplaces, then we will incur expense to sort and process such lower quality secondhand items and detract resources from processing re-sellable secondhand items. Additionally, if sellers substantially increase the initial price of their items that we list on our marketplaces and subsequently reclaim these items if they do not sell within the listing window, our business could be harmed because these activities may negatively affect sell-through rates and gross margin. Our ability to incorporate artificial intelligence and machine learning and other emergent technologies into our business operations successfully may affect our reputation and results of operations. We use artificial intelligence (AI), and machine learning (ML) technologies in our business to, among other things, optimize our product presentation and personalize our website experience through advanced search and product recommendations. Our strategic plans and initiatives also include investments in information technology, data science, AI and ML and other emergent technologies. We may expand our use of AI and ML and other emergent technologies into other areas of our business including general administrative functions. However, there can be no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits from AI and ML. Our investments in AI and ML solutions and features may negatively impact our cost of revenue and gross margins until and unless we are able to increase revenue enough to offset these investments. We may also fail to properly implement or market our AI solutions and features. 10 Table of Contents In addition, issues relating to our and our vendors use of new and evolving technologies such as AI and ML may cause us to experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, legal liability and new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, and to incur additional costs to resolve such issues. For example, data sets used by AI and ML may be over-broad or insufficient, can include unexpected biases and may also be subject to legal risks and licensing costs. Our vendors may incorporate artificial intelligence tools into their offerings without disclosing this use to us, and the providers of artificial intelligence tools may not meet existing or rapidly evolving regulatory or industry standards with respect to the use and governance of artificial intelligence tools. AI algorithms or training methodologies may have flaws and be prone to cybersecurity incidents or service interruptions. Perceived or actual technical, legal, compliance, privacy, security, ethical or other issues relating to the use of AI and ML could undermine the decisions, predictions or analysis that such applications produce and create additional risks, such as risks of cybersecurity incidents or loss of intellectual property and other confidential information, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Developing, testing and deploying AI systems may also increase our operating expenses due to the nature of the computing costs involved in such systems. Further, we may be unable to quickly and successfully adapt to rapid change resulting from advancements in AI and similar technology, or our competitors may have more success implementing and utilizing such technology than we do. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations. The use of AI and ML involves significant technical complexity and requires specialized expertise, and depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, software engineers and other employees with the technical skills in AI, ML and advanced algorithms. Competition for highly skilled employees is intense, particularly in the fields of AI and data science. We may be unable to attract or retain such highly skilled personnel who are critical to our success, which could hinder our ability to keep pace with innovation and technological changes in our industry or result in harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, including our costs and supply of secondhand items, is subject to risks associated with sourcing, itemizing, warehousing and shipping. Nearly all of the secondhand items we offer through our marketplaces are initially sourced from sellers who are individuals. As a result, we may be subject to periodic fluctuations in the number, brands and quality of secondhand items sold through our marketplaces. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by these fluctuations. In addition, as we expand into new categories of secondhand items, our payments to our sellers may rise relative to our existing categories, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We can make no assurance that secondhand items we receive from sellers will be of sufficient quality or free from damage, or that such secondhand items will not be damaged during shipping, while in one of our distribution centers or when shipped to buyers. While we conduct inspections of secondhand items sent by sellers for resale and inspect secondhand items returned by buyers, we cannot control items while they are out of our possession or prevent all damage while in our distribution centers. For example, we have in the past and may in the future experience contamination, such as mold, bacteria, insects and other pests, in the secondhand items shipped to us by our sellers, which may cause contamination of the secondhand items in our distribution centers or while shipping to buyers. If we are unable to detect and quarantine such contaminants at the time such secondhand items are initially received in our distribution centers, some or all of the secondhand items in such facilities could be contaminated. We may incur additional expenses and our reputation could be harmed if the secondhand items we offer are damaged or contain contaminants. We are also dependent on third parties to handle the shipment of our items to purchasers and to handle the shipment of the items we receive from sellers, including the FedEx Corporation (FedEx), which has a partnership with the United States Postal Service, and United Parcel Service, Inc. (UPS). We provide prepaid labels to consumers to use to ship us secondhand sellers and use third party services to ship items to buyers. If one or more of these third-party package-delivery providers increases its prices or were to experience a major work stoppage or other disruption, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We rely on consumer discretionary spending and have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends. Our business and results of operations are subject to global economic and political conditions and their impact on consumer discretionary spending, particularly in the retail market. Some of the factors that may negatively influence consumer spending on retail items include economic downturns, high levels of unemployment, high consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth, declines in asset values, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, higher interest rates, limited credit availability, inflation, resumption of federal student loan payments, higher fuel and other energy costs, increased costs of logistics, higher commodity prices and general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment. Economic conditions in particular regions may also be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, extreme weather events and wildfires; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as a government shutdown, terrorist attacks, war and other incidents of political instability, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine, the Israel-Hamas war and other conflicts in the Middle East, and the risk of increased tensions between China and Taiwan, or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the United States or internationally. Additionally, other macroeconomic developments, such as efforts of governments to stimulate or stabilize the economy, international conflicts, trade disputes, sanctions, increased tariffs internationally, including between the United States and China and on imports into the United States from various countries, have at times impacted, and may in the future impact our business in an adverse manner, whether directly or indirectly, such as through their impacts on the financial positions and operations of our customers, suppliers, and other third parties with whom we do business. Traditionally, consumer purchases of new retail items have declined during periods of economic uncertainty, when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. This has also resulted in increases in inventory levels which can lead to increased price competition and depressed margins. Such economic uncertainty and decrease in the rate of retail purchases in the primary market may slow the rate at which individuals choose to supply their secondhand items to us, which could result in a decrease of items available in our marketplaces, and may also slow the rate at which individuals choose to buy secondhand items and their value on our marketplaces, including through a relative increase in purchases in the primary market compared with the resale market. The presence or absence of government stimulus funding programs has had and may continue to have an impact on consumer discretionary spending and, consequently, purchases through our marketplaces. Further, we cannot guarantee that buyers will continue to buy at current rates if the economy worsens. Adverse economic changes could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby negatively affect our results of operations. The market in which we participate is competitive and rapidly changing, and if we do not compete effectively with established companies as well as new market entrants or maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The markets for secondhand and resale items are highly competitive. We compete with vendors of new and secondhand items, including branded goods stores, local, national and global department stores, traditional brick-and-mortar consignment and thrift stores, specialty retailers, direct-to-consumer, retailers, discount chains, independent retail stores, the online offerings of traditional retail competitors, resale players focused on niche or single categories, as well as technology-enabled marketplaces that may offer the same or similar goods and services that we offer. We believe our ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: cost effectively attracting and retaining buyers and sellers and increasing the volume of secondhand items they buy and sell; further developing our data science and automation capabilities; maintaining favorable brand recognition; effectively delivering our marketplaces to buyers and sellers; identifying and delivering authentic, high-quality secondhand items; maintaining and increasing the amount, diversity and quality of brands and secondhand items that we offer; our ability to expand the means through which we acquire and offer secondhand items for resale; the price at which secondhand items accepted onto our marketplaces are offered; fluctuations in inventories held by primary sellers and related fluctuations in promotional activities and merchandise discounting; 12 Table of Contents the speed and cost at which we can process and make available secondhand items and deliver purchased secondhand items to our buyers; and the ease with which our buyers and sellers can supply, purchase and return secondhand items. As our market evolves and we begin to compete with new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Established companies may not only develop their own platforms and competing lines of business, but also acquire or establish cooperative relationships with our current competitors or provide meaningful incentives to third parties to favor their offerings over our marketplaces. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors or potential alliances among competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages such as greater brand name recognition and longer operating histories, larger fulfillment infrastructures, greater technical capabilities, faster shipping times, lower cost shipping, broader supply, established relationships with a larger existing buyer and/or seller base, superior or more desirable secondhand items for sale or resale, greater customer service resources, greater financial, marketing, institutional and other resources than we do, greater resources to make acquisitions, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios, and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. Such competitors with greater financial and operating resources may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements and derive greater revenue and profits from their existing buyer bases, adopt more aggressive pricing policies to build larger buyer or seller bases, or respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning and changes in consumer shopping behavior. Potential buyers may also prefer to purchase retail items from larger online or brick-and-mortar competitors that they currently shop from, rather than a newer marketplace, regardless of offerings. These larger competitors often have broader supply and market focus and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. If such competitors have excess inventory and choose to discount their merchandise or increase promotional activities, potential buyers could increase their relative purchases from such competitors. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, or if they partner with our competitors and devote greater resources to implement and support the platforms or retail items of our competitors, our ability to compete in the marketplace, or to grow our revenue, could be impaired, and our results of operations may suffer. Even if these partnerships and any future partnerships we undertake are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased buying and selling through our marketplaces or increased revenue. Conditions in our market could also change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors or continuing market consolidation, and it is uncertain how our market will evolve. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer buyers and sellers, reduced revenue, gross profit, and gross margins, increased net losses and loss of market share. Any failure to meet and address these factors could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced growth in many of our recent periods and those growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, growth in certain recent periods, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Additionally, our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we scale our operational, financial and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures. 13 Table of Contents To manage growth in our operations and the growth in the number of buyers and sellers on our platform, we will need to continue to grow and improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We will need to maintain or increase the automation of our distribution centers and continue to improve how we apply data science to our operations. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, marketing, operations, administrative, financial, customer support, engineering and other resources. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to cost effectively attract new buyers and sellers and to grow our business. In addition, future growth, such as the potential expansion of our operations internationally or expansion into new categories of offerings, either organically or through acquisitions, would require significant capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations, and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas. Our revenue from continuing operations was $260.0 million and $258.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing annual growth of 1% and 7%, respectively. In future periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase revenue growth rates consistent with recent history, or at all. We believe our success and revenue growth depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: cost effectively attract and retain new and existing buyers and sellers and grow our supply of high-quality secondhand items for resale through our marketplaces; scale our revenue and achieve the operating efficiencies necessary to achieve and maintain profitability; increase buyer and seller awareness of our brand; anticipate and respond to changing buyer and seller preferences; manage and improve our business processes in response to changing business needs; process Clean Out Kits from sellers on a timely basis; improve, expand and further automate our distribution center operations and information systems; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes generally, including changes in the markets for both new and secondhand retail items; successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants, including national retailers and brands and traditional brick-and-mortar thrift stores; effectively scale our operations while maintaining high-quality service and buyer and seller satisfaction; hire and retain talented employees and professional contractors at all levels of our business; avoid or manage interruptions in our business from information technology downtime, cybersecurity breaches and other factors that could affect our physical and digital infrastructure; fulfill and deliver Orders in a timely manner and in accordance with customer expectations, which may change over time; maintain a high level of customer service and satisfaction; adapt to changing conditions in our industry ; and comply with regulations applicable to our business. If we are unable to accomplish any of these tasks, our revenue growth will be harmed. We also expect our operating expenses to increase in future periods, and if our revenue growth does not increase to offset these anticipated increases in our operating expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of losses and we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future. We may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. 14 Table of Contents We experienced losses from continuing operations of $40.0 million and $52.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We expect to continue to incur losses from continuing operations and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We believe there is a significant market opportunity for our business, and we intend to invest aggressively to capitalize on this opportunity. Because the market for secondhand items is evolving, particularly the online resale of secondhand items, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations or the limits of our market opportunity. We expect our operating expenses to significantly increase as we expand our operations and infrastructure, make significant investments in our marketing initiatives, develop and introduce new technologies and automation and hire additional personnel. Additionally, during periods of increased investment in growth, we expect our operating expenses related to inbound processing, operations and technology could increase as a percentage of revenue. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in revenue growth or increased efficiency. In addition, as we grow and comply with rules and regulations of being a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. If our revenue does not increase to offset these expected increases in our operating expenses, we will not be profitable in future periods. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability and may continue to incur significant losses going forward. Any failure by us to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent basis could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenue, plan our expenses and evaluate our business and future prospects. We have a limited operating history in a rapidly evolving industry that may not develop in a manner favorable to our business. Our marketplaces represent a substantial departure from the traditional thrift store market for secondhand items. While our business has grown rapidly, and much of that growth has occurred in recent periods, the resale market for secondhand items may not continue to develop in a manner that we expect or that otherwise would be favorable to our business. As a result of our limited operating history, ongoing changes in our new and evolving industry, our ability to forecast our future results of operations and plan for and model future growth is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. Accordingly, we may be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenue that we do not receive as a result of delays arising from these factors, and our results of operations in future reporting periods may be below the expectations of investors or analysts. If we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our estimates and forecasts or the expectations of investors or analysts, causing our business to suffer and our Class A common stock price to decline. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. Our quarterly results of operations have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including, but not limited to: the level of supply and demand for secondhand items; fluctuations in the levels or quality of secondhand items on our marketplaces fluctuations in capacity as we expand our operations our success in engaging existing buyers and sellers and cost effectively attracting new buyers and sellers our ability to meet the expectations of sellers that we will process their Clean Out Kits in a timely manner; the amount and timing of our operating expenses the timing of expenses and recognition of revenue; the timing and success of new partnerships, RaaS relationships, retail offerings and referral programs; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments our ability to manage our existing business and future growth actual or reported disruptions or defects in our online marketplace, such as actual or perceived privacy or data security breaches 15 Table of Contents economic and market conditions, particularly those affecting our industry; fluctuations in inventories held by primary sellers and related fluctuations in promotional activities and merchandise discounting; the impact of market volatility and economic downturns, including those caused by outbreaks of disease on our business costs arising from investigations, litigation, regulatory audits and similar such proceedings, including the cost of responding to claims or inquiries, participating in such proceedings and paying any adverse judgments, fines, settlement costs and other related costs; changes in, and continuing uncertainty in relation to, the legislative or regulatory environment; legal and regulatory compliance costs; the number of new employees and professional contractors added; the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees, directors, contractors or consultants; pricing pressure as a result of competition, economic conditions, shipment delays or otherwise; costs and timing of expenses related to the acquisition of talent, technologies, intellectual property or businesses, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; public health crises; and general economic conditions throughout the world, including the inflation and interest rate environment, military conflicts, including Russias invasion of Ukraine, the Israel-Hamas war, other conflicts in the Middle East, and geopolitical uncertainty and instability. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other key metrics for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Our advertising activity and strategic RaaS offerings may fail to efficiently drive growth in buyers and sellers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future growth and potential profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising, promotion, public relations and marketing programs as well as our strategic RaaS offerings, and we are investing heavily in these activities. Our advertising activities may not yield increased revenue and the efficacy of these activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: determine the effective creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; select the right markets, media and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; and effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, to maintain acceptable buyer and seller acquisition costs. We closely monitor the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and changes in the advertising market, and adjust or re-allocate our advertising spend across channels, customer segments and geographic markets in real-time to optimize the effectiveness of these activities. For instance, we have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, variability in the number of customers we are able to reach in our email marketing campaigns. We expect to increase advertising spend in future periods to continue driving our growth. We have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels. These pricing increases could increase our marketing and advertising expenses or cause us to choose less expensive but possibly less effective marketing and advertising channels. If we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may incur significantly higher costs than our current channels, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Implementing new marketing and advertising strategies also could increase the risk of devoting significant capital and other resources to endeavors that do not prove to be cost effective. We also may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not generate sufficient levels of brand awareness or result in increased revenue. Even if our marketing and advertising expenses result in increased sales, the increase might not offset our related expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace or supplement existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly or more effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our buyer and seller base could be adversely affected, our brand could suffer and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We have invested and expect to continue to invest significant time and resources into our RaaS offerings and our RaaS clients include national retail stores, premium fashion brands, fashion-focused e-commerce sites and marketplaces for the buying and selling of secondhand items. We maintain a robust and varied set of RaaS offerings including provision of our Clean Out Kits at our RaaS clients retail stores, our cash out marketplace offering, white-label resale shops, the resale of worn retail items provided to us by our RaaS clients and cross-listing our products on our RaaS clients websites. To grow our business and build out our marketplaces, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with third parties. Identifying RaaS clients, and negotiating, documenting and maintaining relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. Further, our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their offerings over our marketplaces, mobile application or in-store offerings. There is significant uncertainty around the future profitability of our RaaS offerings and whether they will result in an increased number of new and repeat buyers, an increased number of new and repeat sellers selling high-quality secondhand items, increased awareness of our brand and an additional source of revenue. Further, if the retail industry suffers in general, there may be fewer customers visiting our RaaS clients retail stores, our RaaS clients may discontinue their white-label resale shops in an effort to cut back newer partnerships, and therefore our kit distribution offering for gift cards to our clients stores could be less desirable. Additionally, our RaaS clients could go out of business or declare bankruptcy. If our RaaS offerings are not profitable and do not result in us acquiring a high-quality supply of secondhand items from our RaaS clients and/or their customers, who become our sellers, and reaching additional buyers, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be able to continue to improve our distribution center operations, attract and retain personnel to efficiently and effectively manage the operations required to process, itemize, list, sell, pack and ship secondhand and resale items or identify and lease distribution centers in geographic regions that enable us to effectively scale our operations. We lease facilities to store and accommodate the logistics infrastructure required to process, itemize, list, sell, pack and ship the secondhand and resale items we sell through our marketplaces and related channels of distribution, including our RaaS offerings. To grow our business, we must continue to improve our distribution center operations, proprietary software and systems, and personnel in the geographic regions that have the resources necessary to effectively operate our business. The operation of our business is complex and requires the coordination of multiple functions that are highly dependent on numerous employees and personnel. Each item that we offer through our marketplaces is unique and requires multiple touch points, including inspection, evaluation, photography, pricing, application of a unique SKU, and fulfillment. This process is complex and we have in the past, and may continue to have more Clean Out Kits from sellers than we can timely process. Further, the market for employees is competitive and is highly dependent on geographic location. We have and could in the future be required to raise wages or introduce other compensation incentives to remain competitive, possibly without increasing productivity or sales, for example due to inflation, any of which could increase our costs and harm our results of operations. If we fail to effectively locate, hire and retain such personnel, our operations could be negatively impacted, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Further, the success of our business depends on our ability to maintain our current distribution centers and, in the future, secure additional distribution centers that meet our business needs and are also in geographic locations with access to a large, qualified talent pool. We have processing and distribution centers across four strategic U.S. locations: Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania and Texas. Space in well-positioned geographic locations has in the past, and may in the future be scarce, and where it is available, the lease terms offered by landlords are increasingly competitive, particularly in geographic locations with access to the large, qualified talent pools required for us to run our logistics infrastructure. Incentives currently offered by local, state and federal entities to offset operating expenses may be reduced or become unavailable. Companies who have more financial resources and negotiating leverage than us may be more attractive tenants and, as a result, may outbid us for the facilities we seek. Due to the competitive nature of the real estate market in the locations where we currently operate, we may be unable to renew our existing leases or renew them on satisfactory terms. Failure to identify and secure adequate new distribution centers in optimal geographic locations in the future or maintain our current distribution centers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not realize expected savings or benefits from restructuring activities. We have reduced our cost structure to better align the operational needs of the business to current economic conditions. In March 2024, we reorganized certain functions within our business to improve efficiencies and reduce overhead costs. We may have additional workforce reorganization initiatives in the future to improve our operations, respond to changes in business conditions and markets and to streamline certain key functions to reduce costs. We may not realize expected savings or benefits from restructuring activities, incur additional restructuring charges and experience loss of key personnel, disruptions in our operations, and difficulties in the timely delivery of products. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2024, we divested 91% of our European business and Bulgarian subsidiary, Remix Global EAD. These factors could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully leverage technology to automate and drive efficiencies in our operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We are continuing to build automation, artificial intelligence, machine learning and other capabilities to drive efficiencies in our distribution center operations. As we continue to enhance automation and add capabilities, our operations may become increasingly complex. While we expect these technologies to improve productivity in many of our merchandising operations, including processing, itemizing, listing and selling, any flaws, bugs or failures of such technologies could cause interruptions in and delays to our operations, which may harm our business. We are increasing our investment in technology, software and systems to support these efforts, but such investments may not increase productivity, maintain or improve the experience for buyers and sellers or result in more efficient operations. In addition, the evolution of these technologies may create unforeseen competitive pressures or cause disruption. While we have created our own proprietary technology to operate our business, we also rely on technology from third parties. For example, to run our inbound operations, we leverage third-party machine learning software that analyzes data that we use in our proprietary algorithms for determining the optimal list price. We have also integrated third-party software to help operate our automated carousels and conveyors in our distribution centers. If these technologies do not increase our operational efficiency in accordance with our expectations, third parties change the terms and conditions that govern their relationships with us, or if competition increases for the technology and services provided by third parties, our business may be harmed. If we are no longer able to rely on such third parties, we would be required to either seek licenses to technologies or services from other third parties and redesign aspects of business and operations to function with such technologies or services or develop such technologies ourselves, either of which would result in increased costs and could result in operational delays until equivalent technologies can be licensed or developed and integrated into our business and operations. In addition, if we are unable to enhance automation to our operations, we may be unable to reduce the costs of processing supply and fulfilling orders, which could cause delays in buyers receiving their purchases and sellers receiving their payouts. As a result, our reputation and our relationships with our buyers and sellers could be harmed, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. National retailers and brands set their own retail prices and promotional discounts on new items, which could adversely affect our value proposition to buyers and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents National retailers and brands set pricing for their own new retail items, which can include promotional discounts. Promotional pricing by these parties may adversely affect the relative value of secondhand items offered for resale with us, and, in turn, our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. In order to attract buyers to our marketplaces, the prices for the secondhand and resale items sold through our marketplaces may need to be lowered in order to compete with pricing strategies employed by national retailers and brands for their own new retail items, which could negatively affect revenue growth, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced a reduction in our revenue in the past due to reductions and fluctuations in the price of new retail items sold by national retailers and brands, and we anticipate similar reductions and fluctuations could occur in the future, such as due to a decrease in the price of new retail items in light of economic downturns, macroeconomic uncertainty, inflation or other geopolitical instability. These pricing changes and promotional discounts could, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We use data science to predict buyer and seller preferences, and if we do not accurately predict evolving preferences of our buyers and sellers it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success is in large part dependent upon our ability to anticipate and identify trends in the market for secondhand items in a timely manner and to obtain a supply of secondhand items that addresses those trends by attracting and retaining sellers who send in high-quality secondhand items. We use data science to predict buyer and seller preferences, which we in turn use to ensure our buyers are looking at secondhand items that they are interested in purchasing on our marketplaces. There can be no assurance that our data science will accurately anticipate buyer or seller preferences and, if our predictions are inaccurate, we will not be able to optimize our buyers and sellers experience on our marketplaces. Lead times relating to these changing preferences may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing trends. We have begun to expand our offerings beyond our core marketplace and to expand our RaaS offerings and the impact on our business from these new offerings and RaaS offerings is not clear as it is difficult to accurately predict buyer and seller preferences. To the extent we do not accurately predict the evolving preferences of our buyers and sellers, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, issues in the use of artificial intelligence in our platform may result in reputational harm or liability. ThredUps data science portfolio also leverages machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics, and other artificial intelligence technologies to identify trends, anomalies and correlations, provide alerts and initiate business processes. Artificial intelligence presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. Artificial intelligence algorithms may be flawed, unreliable or we may not have access to certain artificial intelligence technologies. Datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by us or others could impair the acceptance of artificial intelligence solutions. These deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, or analysis artificial intelligence applications produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. We may experience damage or destruction to our distribution centers in which we store all of the secondhand and resale items we offer through our marketplaces, which may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We store the majority of the secondhand items we offer through our marketplaces in our current processing and distribution centers in Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania and Texas. Our processing and distribution centers, as well as our headquarters, are located in areas that have a history of natural disasters, including severe weather events, rendering our distribution centers vulnerable to damage. Any large-scale damage to or catastrophic loss of secondhand and resale items stored in one of our distribution centers, due to natural disasters or man-made disasters such as arson, theft or otherwise would result in liability to our sellers for the expected payout commission liability for the lost items, reduction in the value of our inventory and a significant disruption to our business. Additionally, given the nature of the unique selection of secondhand and resale items we offer on our marketplaces, our ability to restore such secondhand items on our marketplaces would take time and would result in a limitation and delay of available supply for buyers, which would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. Further, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires, floods and other adverse weather and climate conditions unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics political crises, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war, terrorist attacks, war and other political instability or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the United States or internationally, could disrupt our operations in any of our offices and distribution centers or the operations of one or more of our third-party providers or vendors. 19 Table of Contents Further, while we carry insurance for the secondhand and resale items in our distribution centers, the number of carriers which provide for such insurance has declined, which has resulted in increased premiums and deductibles. The insurance we do carry may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms and, in any event, may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our business could suffer. In the event that we suffer a catastrophic loss of any or all of our distribution centers and the secondhand items in such facilities, our liabilities may exceed the maximum insurance coverage amount, which would harm our business and results of operations. Our business is affected by seasonality and we may be adversely affected by weather conditions, including any potential effects from climate change. Seasonality in our core marketplace does not necessarily follow that of traditional retailers, such as typical concentration of revenue in the holiday quarter, and we have seen a relatively linear revenue pattern throughout the year compared to traditional retailers. However, our business has in the past, and may in the future be adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions, including those resulting from climate change. For example, we have observed that periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall and winter may lead to reduced consumer spending on winter apparel that tends to have a higher average selling price, which negatively impacts our business. As the effects of climate change increase, we expect the frequency and impact of weather and climate related events and conditions to increase as well. Any and all of these risks may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Shipping is a critical part of our business and any changes in our shipping arrangements or any interruptions in shipping could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely on both national and regional vendors for our shipping of purchases to buyers, the shipping of supplied secondhand items by sellers and the shipping of items between our distribution centers to consolidate orders. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable pricing and other terms with these vendors or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our business and results of operations and negatively affect the experiences of our buyers and sellers, which could affect the degree to which they continue to buy and supply secondhand items on our marketplaces. For instance, our shipping arrangements with our vendors typically include volume based pricing incentives and discounts. If we fall below the volume threshold under our arrangements, then our shipping costs will increase. In addition, our ability to receive inbound secondhand items efficiently and ship secondhand items to buyers may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, or acts of war or terrorism. Disruption to delivery services due to inclement weather could result in delays that could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. If our secondhand items are not delivered in a timely fashion or are damaged or lost during the supply or the delivery process, our buyers or sellers could become dissatisfied and cease using our marketplaces, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the current volatility in the global oil markets has resulted in higher fuel prices, which many shipping companies have passed on to their customers by way of increased fuel surcharges. We have recently experienced increased shipping costs as a result, and these costs may continue to increase in the future. Partly as a result of rising costs, we have in the past, and may in the future announce price increases in standard shipping fees for our customers. In the future, however, we may not be able to pass such increases on to our customers. Greater than expected item return rates have, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenue. We allow buyers to return certain purchases from our website and mobile application under our return policy. We record a reserve for returns against proceeds to us from the resale of items on our marketplaces in calculating revenue. We estimate this reserve based on historical return trends. The introduction of new products in the retail market, changes in consumer confidence or other competitive and general economic conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, actual returns to exceed our reserve for return rates. Further, we believe that on a macro level across e-commerce platforms, without the ability to try on items such as clothing and shoes, customers are increasingly accustomed to over-purchasing with the intent to return items, which has caused an increase in returns and may in the future continue to increase our amount of return rates. In addition, from time to time, the secondhand items sold through our marketplaces are damaged in transit which can increase return rates, increase our costs and harm our brand. Returned items may also be damaged in transit as part of the return process, which can significantly impact the price we are able to charge for such items on our marketplaces. Any significant increase in returns that exceeds our reserves could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depend on demand for our platform and our ability to hire and retain personnel, including employees and international contractors. Current or future economic uncertainties or downturns could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Weak or volatile economic conditions in the global economy or individual markets, changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, inflation, labor shortages, political turmoil, natural catastrophes, warfare and terrorist attacks on the United States or elsewhere, including the Israel-Hamas war and other conflicts in the Middle East, and other events outside of our control could cause customers and prospective customers to reduce spending, and demand for our offerings may decline. Additionally, economic downturns could result in our RaaS relationships terminating or limiting their arrangements with us as retailers focus on general cost reductions in the face of macroeconomic uncertainty. Furthermore, weak economic conditions may make it more difficult to collect on outstanding accounts receivable and may increase our expenses. If our customers reduce their spending on our products, or prospective customers delay spending on our products, as a result of a weak economy, this could adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, given our investment in our software development capabilities in Ukraine, political turmoil, warfare, or terrorist attacks in Ukraine could negatively affect our business. Political and military events in Ukraine, including the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, as well as ongoing tensions and intermittent warfare between Ukraine and Russia since the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea, challenging relations between the United States and its allies, and Russia, and sanctions by the United States and the EU against Russia may also have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the conflict in Ukraine persists and our Ukrainian personnel are unable to work as a result, our results of our operations and our financial condition could be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to drive traffic to our website and mobile application, and these providers may change their algorithms or pricing in ways that could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We rely in part on digital advertising, including search engine marketing and social media advertising, to promote awareness of our marketplaces, grow our business, attract new buyers and sellers and retain existing buyers and sellers. In particular, we rely on search engines, such as Google, the major mobile application stores and social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram as important marketing channels. In addition to purchasing traditional advertising space on search engines and social media platforms, we also partner with influencers who promote their buying and selling of secondhand and resale items through our marketplaces to their followers. Search engine companies, social media platforms or mobile application stores that we advertise our marketplaces through may determine that we are not in compliance with their guidelines and penalize us as a result. If search engines or social media platforms change their algorithms, terms of service, display or the featuring of search results, determine we are out of compliance with their terms of service or if competition increases for advertisements, we may be unable to cost-effectively add buyers and sellers to our website and mobile application. Further, changes to third-party policies that limit our ability to deliver, target or measure the effectiveness of advertising, including changes by mobile operating system and browser providers such as Apple and Google, could reduce the effectiveness of our marketing. We also cannot accurately predict if the followers of our influencer partners will be interested in buying and selling through our marketplaces, or if our influencer partners will maintain their follower numbers throughout the time of our partnerships. Our relationships with our marketing vendors are not long-term in nature and do not require any specific performance commitments. In addition, many of our online advertising vendors provide advertising services to other companies, including companies with whom we may compete. As competition for online advertising has increased, the cost for some of these services has also increased. Our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive and generating a return on those initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of our paid marketing efforts, such increase may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur. We may not succeed in promoting and maintaining our brand and reputation, which could harm our business and future growth. We believe that maintaining our brand and reputation is critical to driving buyer and seller engagement. An important goal of our brand promotion strategy is establishing trust with our buyers and sellers. 21 Table of Contents For buyers, maintaining our brand and reputation requires that we foster trust through timely and reliable fulfillment of orders, responsive and effective customer service, a broad supply of desirable brands and secondhand items and an exciting and user-friendly interface on our marketplaces and through our RaaS relationships. For sellers, maintaining our brand and reputation requires that we balance desirable supply for our buyers with a convenient seller service that is consistent and timely. It also requires that we foster trust through consistent and transparent acceptance, payout and return processes and policies for secondhand items supplied to us, payouts that our sellers perceive to be adequate compensation for their items and responsive and effective customer service. For example, in 2022, we implemented a fee for sellers to order a Clean Out Kit and made changes to our return policy, which have led and could potentially in the future lead to an increase in customer service requests from both our buyers and our sellers. If we fail to provide buyers or sellers with the service and experience they expect, or we experience buyer or seller dissatisfaction or negative publicity about our marketplace services, merchandise, delivery times or customer support, whether justified or not, the value of our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could harm our business and future growth. Further, any unanticipated increase in customer service inquiries from our customers has in the past, and may in the future, result in a slower response time from our customer service team and lead to an increase in customer complaints. For example, disruption to processing of Clean Out Kits and distribution caused by a backlog of Clean Out Kits has led and could potentially lead to additional delays in our ability to process secondhand items sellers send in for resale, resulting in delays in sellers receiving payouts and less refreshing of our supply on our marketplaces, and could harm our brand and reputation. Our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any failure to maintain satisfactory practices for all our operations and activities, including greenwashing concerns regarding our advertising campaigns and marketing programs related to our sustainability initiatives. Acquisitions, divestitures, strategic investments, partnerships and alliances involve numerous risks and uncertainties, could divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement our business, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer part of our strategic plans. The pursuit of potential acquisitions and divestitures may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing such transactions, whether or not they are consummated. Any acquisition, divestiture, investment or other business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We also have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. In addition, our due diligence could fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or issues with employees, partners or customers. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate successfully the acquired personnel, operations, systems and technologies, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. Specifically, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired business, operations, systems, technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. If we are unsuccessful at integrating such acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and results of operations of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. Divestitures similarly require a significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, may not close on the expected timing or at all, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction. We may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any one target. Acquisitions could also result in significant payments of cash by us, dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities or the incurrence of debt, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, the incurrence of debt would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. 22 Table of Contents We have previously sought, and may in the future seek, to make strategic investments in companies developing products or technologies that we believe could complement our business, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. These investments may be in early stage private companies for restricted stock. Such investments are generally illiquid and may never generate value. Further, the companies in which we invest may not succeed, and our investments could lose all of their value. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2024, we divested 91% of our ownership of Remix. This resulted in significant impairment charges of long-lived assets and a loss on divestiture. For more information, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Legal, Regulatory, Accounting and Tax MattersWe have recorded, and may be required to record in the future, significant charges if our long-lived assets and goodwill become impaired. Our failure to address these risks or other issues encountered in connection with acquisitions, divestitures and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. As an online secondhand marketplace, our success depends on the accuracy of our item acceptance process. Failure by us to identify counterfeit or stolen retail items could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to liability for the resale of counterfeit or stolen items. Our success may depend on our ability to accurately and cost-effectively determine whether a secondhand item offered for resale is an authentic product. From time to time we receive secondhand items through our sellers which may be counterfeit or which we are otherwise unable to authenticate. While we have invested in our authentication processes and we reject any items we cannot authenticate, we cannot be certain that we will identify every counterfeit item that is supplied to us. As the sophistication of counterfeiters increases, it may be increasingly difficult to authenticate products and/or identify counterfeit products. While we refund the cost of an item to a buyer if the buyer questions its authenticity and returns the item, the resale of any counterfeit items may nonetheless damage our reputation as a trusted marketplace for secondhand items, which may impact our ability to attract and maintain repeat buyers and sellers. We may also be subject to allegations that an item we sold is not authentic despite our efforts to inspect such item and/or our general authentication practices. Such controversy could negatively impact our reputation and brand and harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, we may fail to prevent sellers from supplying stolen items. Government regulators and law enforcement officials may allege that our services violate, or aid and abet violations of certain laws, including laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability and, by extension, the resale, of stolen items. Our terms include a representation that the seller has the necessary right and title to the secondhand items they may resell, and otherwise prohibit the listing of stolen or otherwise illegal products. If these terms prove inadequate to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures which could negatively impact our operations. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual resale of stolen items could harm our business. In addition, negative publicity relating to the actual or perceived listing or resale of stolen items using our services could damage our reputation and make our buyers and sellers reluctant to use our services. To the extent any of this occurs, it could harm our business or damage our reputation and we could face liability for such unlawful activities. Despite measures taken by us to detect stolen items, to cooperate fully with law enforcement, and to respond to inquiries regarding potentially stolen items, any resulting claims or liabilities could harm our business and results of operations. Certain estimates of our buyer metrics included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Certain metrics presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the numbers of Active Buyers, are based on internal company data, assumptions and estimates and we use these numbers in managing our business. We believe that these figures are reasonable estimates, and we take measures to improve their accuracy, such as eliminating known fictitious or duplicate accounts. There are, however, inherent challenges in gathering accurate data across large online and mobile populations. For example, there may be individuals who have multiple email accounts in violation of our terms of service, despite our efforts to detect and enforce our terms of service. If individuals have multiple unique email addresses that are undetected, then we could be overestimating the number of Active Buyers. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating these metrics to improve their accuracy. If investors or analysts do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations of our business, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Information Technology, Intellectual Property, Data Security and Privacy Compromises of our data security could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and may materially harm our reputation and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process and store certain personal information and other data relating to individuals, such as our buyers, sellers and employees. We also maintain other information, such as our trade secrets and confidential business information and certain confidential information of third parties, that is sensitive and that we seek to protect. We rely substantially on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for our processing, transmission and storage of personal information and other confidential information. We or our vendors have been in the past and could be in the future the subject of hacking, social engineering, phishing, ransomware or other attacks. Due to these or other causes, we or our vendors have in the past and may in the future suffer a data breach or other security incident. These incidents have allowed, and may in the future continue to allow, hackers or other unauthorized parties to gain access to personal information or other data, source code, payment card data or confidential business information, and we might not discover such issues for an extended period. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target. As a result, we and our vendors may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our employees, contractors, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent security measures in order to misappropriate such personal information, confidential information or other data, or may inadvertently release or compromise such data. We expect to incur ongoing and increasing costs associated with the detection and prevention of security breaches and other security-related incidents. We may incur additional costs in the event of a security breach or other security-related incident. Any actual or perceived compromise of our systems or data security measures or those of third parties with whom we do business, or any failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or other confidential information and delays in detecting or providing notice of any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, harm the perception of our security measures, damage our reputation, cause some participants to decrease or stop their use of our marketplaces and subject us to litigation, government action, increased transaction fees, regulatory fines or penalties or other additional costs and liabilities that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. With some of our employees and contractors now working remotely or on a hybrid schedule, and as our vendors and other business partners have also moved to permanent or hybrid remote work, we and our vendors may be more vulnerable to cyberattacks. We are taking steps to monitor and enhance the security of our systems, information technology infrastructure, networks, and data, including with respect to remote access to systems and data. However, the increased scale of remote work may require additional personnel and resources, which nevertheless cannot be guaranteed to fully safeguard all systems, information technology infrastructure, networks and data upon which we rely. Further, due to political uncertainty and military actions associated with Russias invasion of Ukraine, we and our vendors and service providers are vulnerable to heightened risks of cybersecurity incidents and security and privacy breaches from or affiliated with nation-state actors. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. 24 Table of Contents Our use and other processing of personal information and other data is subject to laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection and information security. Changes in such laws or regulations, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations, our privacy policies and/or contractual obligations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We collect, maintain and otherwise process significant amounts of personal information and other data relating to our buyers, sellers, clients and employees. Numerous state, federal and international laws, rules and regulations govern the collection, use and protection of personal information and other types of data we collect, use, disclose and otherwise process. Such requirements are constantly evolving, and we expect that there will continue to be new proposed requirements relating to privacy, data protection and information security in the United States and other jurisdictions, or changes in the interpretation of existing privacy requirements. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (the CCPA) broadly defines personal information, imposes stringent consumer data protection requirements, gives California residents expanded privacy rights, provides for civil penalties for violations and introduces a private right of action for certain data breaches. The CCPA is already the subject of active enforcement by the California Attorney General, who may independently bring administrative actions for civil penalties of $2,500 per violation, or up to $7,500 per violation if intentional, and is also enforced by the new California Privacy Protection Agency. We will continue to monitor developments related to the CCPA and anticipate additional costs and expenses associated with CCPA compliance. Additionally, the CCPA has prompted other states, including Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah to propose and enact similar laws and regulations relating to privacy. Aspects of these state privacy laws, and their interpretation, remain unclear, and we cannot yet fully predict the impact of these laws or regulations on our business or operations. Future requirements, or changes in the interpretation of existing requirements, relating to privacy, data protection and information security may require us to implement, enhance or modify privacy and security policies, provide certain types of notices, grant certain rights to individuals, inform individuals of security breaches, and, in some cases, obtain individuals consent to use personal data for certain purposes. These requirements may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, subject to differing interpretations and may be interpreted to conflict with our practices. We cannot yet fully determine the impact that such future requirements may have on our business or operations. Additionally, we are subject to the terms of our privacy policies and notices and may be bound by contractual requirements applicable to our collection, use, processing, security and disclosure of personal information, and may be bound by or alleged to be subject to, or voluntarily comply with, self-regulatory or other industry standards relating to these matters. Any failure or perceived failure by us or any third parties with which we do business to comply with these privacy requirements, with our posted privacy policies or with other obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject relating to privacy, data protection or information security, may result in investigations or enforcement actions against us by governmental entities, private claims, public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and fines, penalties or other liabilities. For example, California consumers whose information has been subject to certain security incidents may bring civil suits under the CCPA, for statutory damages between $100 and $750 per consumer. Any such action would be expensive to defend, likely would damage our reputation and market position, could result in substantial liability and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, in view of new or modified requirements relating to privacy, data protection or information security, contractual obligations and other legal obligations, or any changes in their interpretation, we may find it necessary or desirable to fundamentally change our business activities and practices, and to expend significant resources to adapt to these changes. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new features could be limited. Privacy, data protection and information security concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit the use and growth of our RaaS product offerings and marketplace, particularly in certain foreign countries. Additionally, public scrutiny of or complaints about technology companies or their data practices, even if unrelated to our business, industry, or operations, may lead to increased scrutiny of technology companies, including us, and may cause government agencies to enact additional regulatory requirements, or to modify their enforcement or investigation activities, which may increase our costs and risks. 25 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in the services provided by third-party data centers, Internet service providers, our managed infrastructure or our payment processors could prevent existing and potential buyers and sellers from accessing our marketplaces, and our business could suffer. Our reputation and ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers depends in part on the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery process. We have experienced, and expect that in the future we may experience, interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website hosting disruptions and capacity constraints which could affect the availability of services on our marketplaces and prevent or inhibit the ability of buyers to access our marketplaces or complete purchases on our marketplaces through our website or mobile application. We currently host our domestic core marketplace and support our operations using Amazon Web Services (AWS) data centers, a provider of cloud infrastructure services. In addition, we currently host our RaaS websites using the Shopify Inc. e-commerce platform (Shopify) (together with AWS, our third-party infrastructure services). Our operations depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructures hosted in AWS and Shopify by maintaining their configuration, architecture and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and which third-party Internet service providers transmit. Furthermore, we have no physical access or control over the third-party infrastructure services we engage. Although we have disaster recovery plans that utilize multiple third-party infrastructure service locations, the data centers that we use are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe storms, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, many of which are beyond our control, any of which could disrupt our service, destroy user content, or prevent us from being able to continuously back up or record changes in our users content. In the event of significant physical damage to one of these data centers, it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our marketplaces, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. Further, a prolonged third-party infrastructure service disruption affecting our core marketplace or RaaS websites could damage our reputation with current buyers, sellers and RaaS clients, expose us to liability, make it difficult to attract and retain new and existing buyers, sellers and RaaS clients, or otherwise harm our business. In particular, volume of traffic and activity on our marketplace spikes on certain days and during certain periods of the year, such as during a holiday promotion. Any interruption to the availability of our marketplaces would be particularly problematic if it were to occur at such a high-volume time. In addition, we use multiple third-party payment processors to process payments made by buyers or to sellers on our marketplaces. Any disruption or failure in the services we receive from our third-party payment processors could prevent us from being able to effectively operate our marketplaces and likewise could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our third-party infrastructure services or our third-party payment processors terminate their relationships with us or refuse to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would need to find alternative data centers, Internet service providers and third-party payment processors and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such payment processors in an acceptable timeframe. Further, the services provided by such alternate providers may not meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised or experience outages. In particular, should we or our third-party infrastructure services decide to terminate our contract for infrastructure services for any reason, transitioning our infrastructure to an alternative provider could potentially be disruptive, and we may incur significant costs for a short period of time. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to accept online payments, make payments to sellers or conduct other payment transactions, any of which could make our marketplaces less convenient and attractive and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Activity on mobile devices by buyers and sellers depends upon effective use of mobile operating systems, networks and standards that we do not control. Purchases using mobile devices by buyers and sellers generally, and by our buyers and sellers specifically, have increased significantly, and we expect this trend to continue. To optimize the mobile shopping experience, we are dependent on our buyers and sellers downloading our specific mobile applications for their particular device or accessing our sites from an Internet browser on their mobile device. As new mobile devices and platforms are released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing applications for these alternative devices and platforms, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such applications. In addition, our future growth and our results of operations could suffer if we experience difficulties in the future in integrating our mobile applications into mobile devices, if problems arise with our relationships with providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores, such as those of Apple or Google, if our applications receive unfavorable treatment compared to competing applications, such as the order of our mobile application in the Apple App Store or Google Play, if we face increased costs to distribute or have buyers and sellers use our mobile applications or if our mobile application is no longer available with certain providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores. We are further dependent on the interoperability of our sites with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as iOS and Android, and any changes in such systems that degrade the functionality of our sites or give preferential treatment to competitors could adversely affect the usage of our sites on mobile devices. In the event that it is more difficult for our buyers and sellers to access and use our sites on mobile devices, or if our buyers and sellers choose not to access or to use our sites on their mobile devices or to use mobile products that do not offer access to our sites, this could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be accused of infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. We have been in the past and may be accused in the future of infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties, including but not limited to third party claims alleging that we have infringed their copyrights, trademarks or patents, or improperly used or disclosed their trade secrets, or otherwise infringed or violated their proprietary rights, such as the right of publicity. For example, although we require our employees to not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may become subject to claims that these employees have divulged, or we have used, proprietary information of these employees former employers. In addition, we may become subject to claims by third parties who assert that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights by listing items bearing their trademark, trade dress and/or copyrighted works. The costs of supporting any litigation or disputes related to these claims can be considerable, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve a favorable outcome of any such claim. If any such claim is valid or otherwise successful, we may be compelled to cease our use of such intellectual property or other proprietary rights and pay damages, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, if such claims are valid or otherwise successful, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel, which could harm our business. Even if such claims were not valid, defending them could be expensive and distracting, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. If we cannot successfully protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, contractual protections and other practices to protect our brand, proprietary information, technologies and processes. We primarily rely on patent, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, including the automated operations systems and machine learning technology we use throughout our business. Others may independently develop the same or similar technologies and processes or may improperly acquire and use information about our technologies and processes, which may allow them to provide a service similar to ours, which could harm our competitive position. Further, to the extent we pursue patent protection for our innovations, patents we may apply for may not issue, and patents that do issue or that we acquire may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. There can be no assurance that any patents we obtain will adequately protect our inventions or survive a legal challenge, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. We rely on trademark and trade dress to protect our brand. Our principal trademark assets include the registered trademarks THREDUP and Think Secondhand First and our logos and taglines. Our trademarks are valuable assets that support our brand and buyers perception of our services and merchandise. We have registered trademarks in Australia, Canada, the European Union, South Korea, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States. We also hold the rights to the thredup.com Internet domain name and various related domain names, which are subject to Internet regulatory bodies and trademark and other related laws of each applicable jurisdiction. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or domain names, our brand recognition and reputation would suffer, we would incur significant expense establishing new brands and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. 27 Table of Contents We rely in part on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other confidential information to maintain our competitive position. Although we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships, partnerships and business alliances, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our automation technologies or technologies related to our marketplaces. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. The efforts we take may not be sufficient and/or we may or may not be able to detect all infringement of violation of our intellectual property rights by third parties. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our platform, impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new capabilities, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our business, or injure our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new capabilities, and we cannot assure you that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and our inability to license this technology could harm our ability to compete, business and results of operations. We use open source software in our marketplaces, which could negatively affect our ability to operate our business and subject us to litigation or other actions. We use open source software to facilitate the development and operation of our marketplaces, including our website and mobile application, and may use more open source software in the future. Some open source software may include generative artificial intelligence software or other software that incorporates or relies on generative artificial intelligence. From time to time, there have been claims challenging both the use of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products and whether such use is permissible under various open source licenses. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to operate our marketplaces. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or breach of open source licenses. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our marketplaces. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary source code or software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with less development effort and time. If we inappropriately use open source software, or if the license terms for open source software that we use change, we may be required to re-engineer our marketplaces, or certain aspects of our marketplaces, incur additional costs, or take other remedial actions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or assurance of title or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, but we cannot be sure that all of our use of open source software is in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures or will not subject us to liability. These risks associated with usage of open source software, such as the lack of warranties or assurances of title, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business and results of operations. We rely on software, services and technology from other parties. Defects in or the loss of access to software, services or technology from third parties could increase our costs and adversely affect the quality of our products. We rely on technologies from third parties to operate critical functions of our business, including cloud infrastructure services, payment processing services, certain aspects of distribution center automation and customer relationship management services. We also use Google services for our business emails, file storage and communications. Our business would be disrupted if any of the third-party software, services or other technology we utilize, or functional equivalents thereof, were unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions or because they are no longer available on 28 Table of Contents commercially reasonable terms or prices. In each case, we would be required to either seek licenses or other rights to different software, services or technology from third parties and redesign our business and marketplace to function with such other software, services or technology or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in the launch of new offerings on our marketplaces until equivalent software, services and/or technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our business and marketplace. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. These delays and feature limitations, if they occur, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity and scalability of our systems and infrastructures as well as our ability to integrate with our partners. System interruption and the lack of integration, redundancy and scalability in these systems and infrastructures may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure, including our website and mobile app, information and related systems. Further, to maintain our strategic relationships with our partners, our systems and infrastructure must be seamlessly integrated and interoperable with our partners systems, including those of our RaaS clients, which may cause us to incur significant upfront and maintenance costs as some of our RaaS offerings may involve development of a variety of technologies, data formats, applications, systems and infrastructure. System interruption and a lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructure may adversely affect our ability to operate our website or mobile app, process and fulfill transactions, maintain coordination between our website and those of certain of our RaaS clients, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. As our business has grown in size and complexity, the growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our information systems and infrastructure. To effectively manage this growth, we expect to commit significant financial resources and personnel to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop or acquire new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in our business and information processing technology as well as evolving industry, regulatory and accounting standards. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses is determined to be inaccurate or unreliable, or if we fail to properly maintain or enhance our internal information systems and infrastructure, we could experience operational disruptions, customer disputes, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, incur increased operating and administrative expenses, lose our ability to produce timely and accurate financial reports or suffer other adverse consequences which could harm our results of operations. We also rely on third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with providing access to our marketplaces generally. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems and infrastructure, our business and/or third parties or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructure, could impair our ability to provide access to our marketplaces. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, other natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, including ransomware attacks and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructure at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing access to our marketplaces. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, disaster recovery planning by its nature cannot be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Legal, Regulatory, Accounting and Tax Matters Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, including those relating to the resale of secondhand items, or changes to such laws, rules or regulations may subject us to investigations, audits, fines, penalties, registration and approval or other governmental enforcement action. We are subject to and may become a party to various other litigation, claims, investigations, audits, enforcement actions, arbitrations, or other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation could be costly to defend, and even if we are successful or fully indemnified or insured, they could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future, and responding to any action may result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" along with "Note 11Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business particularly following the change in Presidential administration, including those relating to the internet and e-commerce, such as geo-blocking and other geographically based restrictions, internet advertising and price display, consumer protection, anti-corruption, antitrust and competition, economic and trade sanctions, tax, banking, data security, network and information systems security, data protection, privacy and escheatment and unclaimed property. As a result, regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from conducting some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our practices were found not to comply with applicable regulatory or licensing requirements or any binding interpretation of such requirements. Unfavorable changes or interpretations could decrease demand for our marketplaces, limit marketing methods and capabilities, affect our growth, increase costs or subject us to additional liabilities. In addition, we would be subject to additional regulation in connection with any future international expansion. For example, there are, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and e-commerce. Regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and e-commerce may involve taxes, privacy, data protection and data security, consumer protection, the ability to collect and/or share necessary information that allows us to conduct business on the internet, marketing communications and advertising, content protection, electronic contracts or gift cards. Such regulations and laws may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, display of certain taxes and fees, online editorial and consumer-generated content, user privacy, data security, network and information systems security, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of services. Furthermore, the growth and development of e-commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws and more aggressive enforcement efforts, which may impose additional burdens on online businesses generally. The resale of secondhand items through our marketplaces is subject to regulation, including by regulatory bodies such as the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and other international, federal, state and local governments and regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations are complex, vary from state to state and change often. We monitor these laws and regulations and adjust our business practices as warranted to comply. We receive our supply of secondhand items from numerous sellers located in all 50 states of the United States, and the items we receive from our sellers may contain materials such as fur, snakeskin and other exotic animal product components, that are subject to regulation. Our standard seller terms and conditions require sellers to comply with applicable laws when sending us their secondhand items. Failure of our sellers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual requirements could lead to litigation or other claims against us, resulting in increased legal expenses and costs. In addition, while our vendor agreements generally contain a standard indemnification provision, certain vendors may not have sufficient resources or insurance to satisfy their indemnity and defense obligations which may harm our business. Moreover, failure by us to effectively monitor the application of these laws and regulations to our business, and to comply with such laws and regulations, may negatively affect our brand and subject us to penalties and fines. We are also dependent on third parties to handle the shipment of our items to purchasers and to handle the shipment of the items we receive from sellers, including FedEx, which has a partnership with the United States Postal Service, and UPS, and provide sellers with prepaid labels to ship their items to us for resale. If we, the third parties that handle the shipments or our sellers and buyers do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual requirements with respect to such shipments, it could lead to litigation or other claims against us, resulting in increased legal expenses and costs. 30 Table of Contents Numerous states within the United States and municipalities, including the States of California and New York, have regulations regarding the handling of secondhand items and licensing requirements of secondhand dealers. Such government regulations could require us to change the way we conduct business, such as prohibiting or otherwise restricting the sale or shipment of certain items in some locations. These regulations could result in increased costs or reduced revenue. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties that could harm our business. Additionally, supplied secondhand items could be subject to recalls and other remedial actions and product safety, labeling and licensing concerns may require us to voluntarily remove selected secondhand items from our marketplaces. Such recalls or voluntary removal of items can result in, among other things, lost sales, diverted resources, potential harm to our reputation and increased customer service costs and legal expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the secondhand items sold through our marketplaces may expose us to product liability claims and litigation or regulatory action relating to personal injury, environmental or property damage. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. We have recorded, and may be required to record in the future, significant charges if our long-lived assets and goodwill become impaired. We have recorded impairment charges, and may in the future be required to record additional impairment charges, to operations in our financial statements should we determine that our goodwill and other long-lived assets are impaired. Such charges might have a significant impact on our reported financial condition and results of operations. In the third quarter of 2024, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.8 million in connection with the decision to exit the European market, coupled with the decline in our market capitalization. This charge was recognized within Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024. As required by accounting rules, we review our goodwill for impairment at least annually as of October 1 or more frequently if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit that has goodwill is less than its carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill might not be recoverable include a significant decline in projections of future cash flows and lower future growth rates in our industry. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. It is possible that changes in circumstances, many of which are outside of our control, or in the numerous variables associated with the assumptions and estimates used in assessing the appropriate valuation of our long-lived assets and goodwill, could in the future result in other impairment charges, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to address risks associated with payment methods, credit card fraud and other consumer fraud, or our failure to control any such fraud, could damage our reputation and brand and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past incurred and may in the future incur losses from various types of fraudulent transactions, including the use of stolen credit card numbers, and claims that a buyer did not authorize a purchase. In addition, as part of the payment processing process, our buyers and sellers credit and debit card information is transmitted to our third-party payment processors, and we may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our buyers and sellers credit or debit card information if the security of our third-party credit card payment processors are breached. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholders signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud as our net sales increase. We and our third-party credit card payment processors are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we or our third-party credit card payment processors fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our buyers and sellers in addition to the consequences that could arise from such action or inaction violating or being alleged to violate applicable laws, regulations, contractual obligations or other obligations, including those regulating to privacy, data protection and data security as outlined above, including harm to our reputation and market position. Any of these could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition 31 Table of Contents and prospects. Our failure to adequately prevent fraudulent transactions could damage our reputation and market position, result in claims, litigation or regulatory investigations and proceedings or lead to expenses that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We and our directors and executive officers may be subject to litigation for a variety of claims, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we have in the past and may in the future be involved in and subject to litigation for a variety of claims or disputes and receive regulatory inquiries. These claims, lawsuits and proceedings could include labor and employment, wage and hour, commercial, antitrust, alleged securities law violations or other investor claims, claims that our employees have wrongfully disclosed or we have wrongfully used proprietary information of our employees former employers and other matters. The number and significance of these potential claims and disputes may increase as our business expands. Further, our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims made against us or be sufficient to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any claim against us, regardless of its merit, could be costly, divert managements attention and operational resources, and harm our reputation. Our directors and executive officers may also be subject to litigation. The limitation of liability and indemnification provisions that are included in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and indemnification agreements that we entered into with our directors and executive officers provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and may discourage stockholders from bringing a lawsuit against our directors and executive officers for breach of their fiduciary duties. Such provisions may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and executive officers, even though an action, if successful, might benefit us and other stockholders. Further, a stockholders investment may be harmed to the extent that we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against our directors and executive officers as required by these indemnification provisions. We have obtained insurance policies under which, subject to the limitations of the policies, coverage is provided to our directors and executive officers against loss arising from claims made by reason of breach of fiduciary duty or other wrongful acts as a director or executive officer, including claims relating to public securities matters, and to us with respect to payments that may be made by us to these directors and executive officers pursuant to our indemnification obligations or otherwise as a matter of law. These insurance policies may not cover all potential claims made against our directors and executive officers, may not be available to us in the future at a reasonable rate and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. As litigation is inherently unpredictable, we cannot assure you that any potential claims or disputes will not harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines and harm our business and reputation. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery and similar laws, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the United States domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the United States. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies, their employees and third-party business partners, representatives and agents from promising, authorizing, making or offering improper payments or other benefits, directly or indirectly, to government officials and others in the private sector in order to influence official action, direct business to any person, gain any improper advantage, or obtain or retain business. Further future expansion of our business internationally, including as a result of acquisitions, increases our risks under these laws. In addition, in the future we may use third parties to operate our marketplaces or otherwise conduct business on our behalf, abroad. We or such future third parties may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities, and we can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of such future third parties, and our employees, business partners, representatives, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We cannot assure you that all our employees, business partners, representatives, and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws and anti-bribery laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions, suspension or disbarment from United States government contracts, substantial diversion of managements attention, significant legal fees and fines, severe criminal or civil sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, disgorgement of profits, and other sanctions and remedial measures, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, any of which 32 Table of Contents could harm our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the price of our Class A common stock. Labor-related matters, including labor disputes, may adversely affect our operations. None of our employees are currently represented by a union. If our employees decide to form or affiliate with a union, we cannot predict the negative effects such future organizational activities will have on our business and operations. If we were to become subject to work stoppages, we could experience disruption in our operations, including delays in merchandising operations and shipping, and increases in our labor costs, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, increased inflation rates could adversely affect us by increasing costs, including labor and employee benefit costs without any increase in productivity or sales. In addition, we have in the past and could face in the future a variety of employee claims against us, including but not limited to general discrimination, privacy, wage and hour, labor and employment, Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and disability claims. Any claims could also result in litigation against us or regulatory proceedings being brought against us by various federal and state agencies that regulate our business, including the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Often these cases raise complex factual and legal issues and create risks and uncertainties. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate consolidated financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure