Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and related notes and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 22, 2022. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should review the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of forward-looking statements and the section titled Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future, and our interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results we expect for the full calendar year or any other period. Overview thredUP is one of the worlds largest online resale platforms for womens and kids apparel, shoes and accessories. Our mission is to inspire a new generation of consumers to think secondhand first. We believe in a sustainable fashion future and we are proud that our business model creates a positive impact to the benefit of our buyers, sellers, clients, employees, investors and the environment. Our custom-built operating platform consists of distributed processing infrastructure, proprietary software and systems and data science expertise. This platform is powering the rapidly emerging resale economy, one of the fastest growing sectors in retail, according to a GlobalData market survey conducted in April 2021. thredUPs proprietary operating platform is the foundation for our managed marketplace, where we have bridged online and offline technology to make the buying and selling of tens of millions of unique items easy and fun. The marketplace we have built enables buyers to browse and purchase resale items for primarily womens and kids apparel, shoes and accessories across a wide range of price points. Buyers love shopping value, premium and luxury brands all in one place, at up to 90% off estimated retail price. Sellers love thredUP because we make it easy to clean out their closets and unlock value for themselves or for the charity of their choice while doing good for the planet. thredUPs sellers order a Clean Out Kit, fill it and return it to us using our prepaid label. We take it from there and do the work to make those items available for resale. In 2018, based on our success with consumers directly, we extended our platform to enable brands and retailers to participate in the resale economy. Some of the worlds leading brands and retailers are already taking advantage of our RaaS offering, which allows them to conveniently offer a scalable closet clean out service and/or resale shop to their customers. We believe RaaS will accelerate the growth of this emerging category and form the backbone of the modern resale experience domestically and internationally. In 2021, we completed our acquisition of Remix Global EAD (Remix), a fashion resale company based in Sofia, Bulgaria. With this acquisition, we further expanded our reach to European customers, added a complementary operational infrastructure and added an experienced management team to enable our expansion into Europe. In addition, Remixs product assortment extended our resale offering to include mens items and items sourced from a variety of supply channels, such as wholesale supply. Recent Business Developments COVID-19 Update The ongoing development of the COVID-19 pandemic has continued to impact our business, primarily driven by the emergence of new variants and related subvariants. Our performance was adversely affected by market instability, supply chain disruptions, labor challenges caused by the pandemic and the U.S. government response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the absence of any economic stimulus in 2022. We are actively engaging with our customers and are continuing to take measures to protect the health and safety of our employees. As of June 30, 2022, our remote work model remains largely in place. The long-term impact of COVID-19 on our operations and financial performance remains uncertain and will depend on various unpredictable factors, including the duration of the pandemic, potential subsequent waves of COVID-19 infection or potential new variants, the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines and treatments and government actions to prevent and manage disease spread. The long-term impact of the pandemic on demand and supply for our products and services is also difficult to predict, but could negatively affect our future results and performance. 19 Table of Contents Financial Impact In the six months ended June 30, 2022, we experienced an increase in consumer demand partially due to the reduced severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and shift in consumer and lifestyle patterns. Gross margin and operating expenses were impacted due to rising labor, processing and other costs to support the consumer demand experienced to date. Impact on Processing at our Distribution and Processing Centers The COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing recovery also contributed to a tightened labor supply. We continue to face challenges in hiring and retaining employees in our distribution and processing centers. We have implemented compensation and benefits programs to attract potential employees and to improve employee retention. These programs caused, along with an inflationary labor market, higher Cost of Revenue and higher Operations, Product and Technology expenses and negatively impacted our results of operations. We expect that the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue and cash flows in the short term. Due to the unpredictable nature of the pandemic, it is difficult to predict the long-term impact on our business. See the section titled Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 22, 2022 for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial condition. Inflation The Russia-Ukraine conflict and other geopolitical conflicts, as well as the related international response, have exacerbated inflationary pressures during the pandemic. We continue to actively monitor, evaluate and respond to developments relating to operational challenges in an inflationary environment. Global supply chain disruptions and the higher inflationary environment remain unpredictable and our past results may not be indicative of future performance. Foreign Currency In recent months, the U.S. dollar has been appreciating against major European currencies, including the Bulgarian Lev, for both economic and geopolitical reasons. A strengthening U.S. dollar will have a negative impact on our consolidated sales. We are managing the currency risk related to earnings through natural hedges and have offsetting costs relating to operating our business and a regional source of supply. Therefore, changes to exchange rates have not had a significant impact to our earnings. We continue to monitor our foreign exchange exposure as we grow our business globally. For further details, please refer to "Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk" in Part I,