Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report and include, among other statements, statements regarding the following: demand for Micronet Ltd.s, or Micronet, products as well as the potential changes in the market place, future growth, either through internal efforts, development of new products, potential segments and markets or through acquisitions; levels of Micronets research and development costs in the future; the organic and non-organic growth of the Micronet MRM-related business; plans for new Micronet products and services; Micronets ability to implement its streamlining of its production activity and its ability to raise additional capital; use of proceeds from any future financing by us or Micronet, if any; our and Micronets financing needs; the sufficiency of our and Micronets capital resources; and the proposed transaction with BNN Technology PLC. the decrease in the Companys voting interest in Micronet will result in a deconsolidation of Micronet and, therefore, from February 24, 2019, we will account for the investment in Micronet in accordance with the equity method. The Company is still assessing the gain/loss that will be recorded as a result thereof and Company results in future periods may change significantly as a result of the move to the equity method. The factors discussed herein, including those risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors, and expressed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause actual results and developments to be materially different from those expressed in or implied by such statements. The forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this filing, and except as required by law we undertake no obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. ii PART I Item 1. Business. The Company was formed as a Delaware corporation on January 31, 2002. On March 14, 2013, the Company changed its corporate name from Lapis Technologies, Inc. to Micronet Enertec Technologies, Inc. On July 13, 2018, following the sale of its former subsidiary Enertec Systems Ltd., the Company changed its name from Micronet Enertec Technologies, Inc. to MICT, Inc. The Companys shares have been listed for trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or Nasdaq, since April 29, 2013. The Company operates primarily through an Israel-based subsidiary, Micronet Ltd., or Micronet, in which the Company previously had a majority ownership interest that has since been diluted to a minority ownership interest. As of December 31, 2018, we held 49.89% of Micronets issued and outstanding shares, and together with an irrevocable proxy in our benefit from Mr. David Lucatz, our President and Chief Executive Officer, we held 50.07% of the voting interest in Micronet as of such date. On February 24, 2019, Micronet closed a public equity offering on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the TASE, and as a result of this offering, our ownership interest in Micronet was diluted from 49.89% to 33.88%. On February 24, 2019, Mr. David Lucatz, our President and Chief Executive Officer, executed a new irrevocable proxy assigning his voting power over 1,980,000 shares of Micronet for our benefit. As a result, our current voting interest in Micronet stands at 39.53% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet. The decrease in our voting interest in Micronet will result in a deconsolidation of Micronet and, therefore, from February 24, 2019, we will account for the investment in Micronet in accordance with the equity method. The Company is still assessing the gain/loss that will be recorded as a result thereof and our results in future periods might change significantly as a result of the move to the equity method. Micronet operates in the growing commercial Mobile Resource Management, or MRM, market. Micronet through both its Israeli and U.S. operational offices designs, develops, manufactures and sells rugged mobile computing devices that provide fleet operators and field workforces with computing solutions in challenging work environments. Micronets vehicle portable tablets increase workforce productivity and enhance corporate efficiency by offering computing power and communication capabilities that provide fleet operators with visibility into vehicle location, fuel usage, speed and mileage. Furthermore, users are able to manage the drivers in various aspects, such as: driver identification, reporting hours worked, customer/organization working procedures and protocols, route management and navigation based on tasks and time schedule. End users may also receive real time messages for various services such as pickup and delivery, repair and maintenance, status reports, alerts, notices relating to the start and ending of work, digital forms, issuing and printing of invoices and payments. Through its SmartHub product, Micronet provides its consumers with services such as driver recognition, identifying and preventing driver fatigue, recognizing driver behavior, preventive maintenance, fuel efficiency and an advanced driver assistance system. In addition, Micronet provides third party telematics service providers, or TSPs, a platform to offer services such as Hours of Service. Micronet previously commenced and continues to evaluate integration with other TSPs. Micronets customers consist primarily of application service providers, or ASPs, and solution providers specializing in the MRM market. These companies sell Micronets products as part of their MRM systems and solutions. Currently, Micronet does not sell directly to end users. Micronet customers are generally MRM solution and service providers, ASP providers in the transportation market, including long haul, local fleets student transportation (yellow busses) and fleet and field management systems for construction and heavy equipment. Micronet products are used by customers worldwide. Micronet operates and conducts its business in the U.S. market through Micronet Inc., a fully owned subsidiary located in Utah. The Micronet U.S.-based business, operations and facilities include manufacturing and technical support infrastructure as well as sales and marketing capabilities which allow Micronet to continue and expand into the U.S. market and support its existing U.S.-based customers, all with further accessibility and presence to local fleets and local MRM service providers. 1 Sale of Enertec Systems 2001 Ltd. On December 31, 2017, the Company, Enertec Systems 2001 Ltd., or Enertec, previously our wholly owned subsidiary, and Enertec Management Ltd., entered into a Share Purchase Agreement, or the Share Purchase Agreement, with Coolisys Technologies Inc., or Coolisys, a subsidiary of DPW Holdings, Inc., or DPW, pursuant to which we agreed to sell the entire share capital of Enertec to Coolisys. As consideration for the sale of Enertecs entire share capital, Coolisys agreed to pay, at the closing of the transaction, a purchase price of $5,250,000 as well as assume up to $4,000,000 of Enertec debt. On May 22, 2018, the Company closed on the sale of all of the outstanding equity of Enertec pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement. At the closing, the Company received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $4,700,000 of which 10% will be held in escrow for up to 14 months after the closing to satisfy certain potential indemnification claims. The final consideration amount was adjusted, pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, as a result of adjustments relating to certain Enertec debts at the closing. In addition, Coolisys also assumed approximately $4,000,000 of Enertecs debt. In conjunction with, and as a condition to, the closing, the Company, Enertec, Coolisys, DPW and Mr. David Lucatz, our Chief Executive Officer, executed a consulting agreement, or the Consulting Agreement, whereby we, via Mr. Lucatz, will provide Enertec with certain consulting and transitional services over a 3 year period as necessary and requested by the Coolisys (but in no event to exceed 20% of Mr. Lucatzs time). Coolisys (via Enertec) will pay us an annual consulting fee of $150,000 as well as issue us 150,000 restricted shares of DPW Class A common stock, or the DPW Equity, for such services, to be vested and released from restriction in three equal installments, with the initial installment vesting the day after the closing and the remaining installments vesting on each of the first 2 anniversaries of the closing . In the event of a change of control in the Company, or if Mr. Lucatz shall no longer be employed by us, the rights and obligations under the Consulting Agreement shall be assigned to Mr. Lucatz along with the DPW Equity. Acquisition Agreement with BNN Technology PLC On December 18, 2018, we, Global Fintech Holdings Ltd., a British Virgin Islands corporation, or BVI Pubco, GFH Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of BVI Pubco, or Merger Sub, BNN Technology PLC, a United Kingdom Private limited company, or BNN, Brookfield Interactive (Hong Kong) Limited, a Hong Kong company and a subsidiary of BNN, or BI China, ParagonEx LTD, a British Virgin Islands company, or ParagonEx, certain holders of ParagonExs outstanding ordinary shares and a trustee thereof, and Mark Gershinson, in the capacity as the representative of the ParagonEx sellers, entered into an Acquisition Agreement, or the Acquisition Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Acquisition Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, as a result of which each outstanding share of the Companys common stock and warrant to purchase the same shall be cancelled in exchange for the right of the holders thereof to receive 0.93 substantially equivalent securities of BVI Pubco, after which BVI Pubco will acquire (i) all of the issued and outstanding securities of BI China in exchange for newly issued ordinary shares of BVI Pubco and (ii) all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of ParagonEx for a combination of cash in the amount equal to approximately $25 million (the majority of which was raised in a private placement by BVI Pubco), unsecured promissory notes and newly issued ordinary shares of BVI Pubco, or collectively, the Acquisitions. In furtherance of the Acquisitions, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions described in the Acquisition Agreement, BNN agreed to commence a tender offer, or the Offer, as promptly as practicable and no event later than 15 business days after the execution of the Acquisition Agreement, to purchase up to approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock at a price per share of $1.65, net to the sellers in cash, without interest, or the Offer Price. On March 13, 2019. the deadline for the Tender Offer was extended to April 8, 2019. Additionally, following the Acquisitions, it is contemplated that the certain of our operating business assets, including our interest in Micronet, shall be spun off to our stockholders who continue to retain shares of our common stock after the Offer. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, and assuming that none of the shares of our common stock are purchased by BNN in connection with the Offer, our stockholders will own approximately 5.27% of BVI Pubco after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. 2 Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement is subject to certain closing conditions, including, among other things, approval by the stockholders of MICT. The Acquisition Agreement contains certain termination rights for each of the Company, BNN, BI China and ParagonEx, and further provides that, upon termination of the Acquisition Agreement under specified circumstances, MICT may be required to pay to BNN and ParagonEx a termination fee of $900,000, and BNN and ParagonEx may be required to pay to us a base termination fee of $1.8 million, which shall increase to $3 million under certain specified circumstances. The Acquisition Agreement also contains customary representations, warranties and covenants made by, among others, the Company, BNN and BI China, ParagonEx, and BVI Pubco and Merger Sub, including as to the conduct of their respective businesses (as applicable) between the date of signing the Acquisition Agreement and the closing of the transactions contemplated thereby. The Acquisition Agreement provides that, as a result of the transactions contemplated thereby, options to purchase shares of the Companys common stock that are outstanding and unexercised shall be converted into and become options to purchase ordinary shares of BVI Pubco, and BVI Pubco shall assume our 2012 Stock Incentive Plan and 2014 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect as of the date of the Acquisition Agreement. The Companys board of directors has approved the Acquisition Agreement. The Acquisition Agreement does not obligate our board of directors to recommend that our stockholders accept the Offer and tender their shares of our common stock at the Offer Price, and our board of directors will make its determination regarding whether to make such a recommendation or to remain neutral at or around the time the Offer is launched. The obligation of BNN to consummate the Offer is subject to a number of conditions, including (i) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the Company, (ii) compliance by the Company with certain Nasdaq requirements, and (iii) certain other customary conditions. The consummation of the Offer is not subject to any financing condition or any condition regarding any minimum number of shares of our common stock being validly tendered in the Offer. The foregoing description of the Acquisition Agreement, the Offer, and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Acquisition Agreement, which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. Voting Agreement . In connection with the execution and delivery of the Acquisition Agreement, David Lucatz, on behalf of his affiliates that are stockholders of the Company, or the Stockholder, entered into a voting agreement, or the Voting Agreement, pursuant to which, during the term of such agreement, the Stockholder has agreed to certain actions in support of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and will, at every meeting of the stockholders of the Company called for such purpose, and at every adjournment or postponement thereof (or in any other circumstances upon which a vote, consent or approval is sought, including by written consent), not vote any of his shares of the Companys common stock at such meeting in favor of, or consent to, and will vote against and not consent to, the approval of any alternative proposal that is intended, or would reasonably be expected, to prevent, impede, interfere with, delay or adversely affect in any material respect the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. The foregoing description of the Voting Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Voting Agreement, a form of which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. Amendment to Warrants and Debentures . On December 17, 2018, we entered into an Amendment to Warrants and Debentures, or the YA Agreement, with YA II PN, Ltd., or YA, with respect to (i) the secured convertible debentures due October 1, 2019 held by YA, which were issued pursuant to that certain securities purchase agreement dated March 29, 2018 between YA, the Company, and Enertec Electronics Ltd., or the Debentures, and (ii) the warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,187,500 shares of the Companys common stock held by YA, with exercise prices ranging from $1.50 to $4.00 and expiration dates ranging from June 30, 2021 to March 29, 2023, or, collectively, the Warrants. Pursuant to the YA Agreement, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and effective upon the consummation of the Acquisitions, the Warrants shall be replaced by certain new warrants, or the Replacement Warrants, exercisable at $2.00 per share for a number of ordinary shares of BVI Pubco equal to the number of shares underlying the Warrants immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Acquisitions (subject to adjustment as described therein). YA also agreed that it would not convert the Debentures into more than one million shares of the Companys common stock during the period between the execution of the YA Agreement and the earlier to occur of the effectiveness of the Acquisitions or the termination of the Acquisition Agreement. We agreed to pay in cash the remaining outstanding principal amount and all accrued interest with respect to the Debentures as of the consummation of the Acquisitions, subject to any applicable redemption premiums. The foregoing description of the YA Agreement and the Replacement Warrants does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the YA Agreement and the Replacement Warrants, forms which were are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. 3 Micronet Micronet currently operates via its Israeli and U.S. facilities, the first located in Azur, Israel, near Tel Aviv, and the latter located in Salt Lake City, Utah, from which Micronet operates. Micronet operates in the MRM market as a global developer, manufacturer and provider of mobile computing platforms, designed for integration into fleet management and mobile workforce management solutions. The products and solutions designed, developed and manufactured by Micronet include rugged mobile computing devices (tablets and on-board-computers) that provide fleet operators and field workforces with computing solutions for challenging work environments, such as extreme temperatures, repeated vibrations or dirty and wet or dusty conditions. Micronets connected tablets collect data from the vehicles environment, upload the data to the customers cloud and are designed to increase workforce productivity, enhance corporate efficiency and customer service by offering computing power and communication capabilities. Micronet products provide fleet operators with, among other things, data on vehicle location, fuel usage, speed and mileage and allow the installation of software applications and communication integration enabling the users to manage the drivers in various aspects such as: driver behavior (including through real-time video analytics), driver identification, hourly working reports, customer/organization working procedures and protocols, rout management, electronic logging and navigation based on tasks and time schedules and other insights into their mobile workforce, allowing customers to reduce operating and capital costs while increasing revenue. End users of Micronets products may now also receive real time messages for various services such as pickup and delivery, repair and maintenance, status reports, alerts, notices relating to start and ending of work, digital forms, issuing and printing of invoices and payments. Micronet conducts its sales and support activities mainly through its U.S.-based facilities. Micronets customers include leading international MRM solution and service providers as well as Value Added Resellers, or VARs. Micronet maintains an in-house research and development staff and operates an ISO 9001-2008 certified manufacturing facility. Micronets products are used in and/or targeted to a wide range of MRM industry sectors, including: haulage and distribution, which includes short- and long- haul trucking and distribution servicing of urban retail and wholesale needs, such as delivery of packages, parts and similar items; public transportation, which refers mainly to buses, para-transit, taxis and limousine services; construction, which refers to vehicle fleets that are involved in the construction industry such as cement trucks and heavy equipment; service industries, which include insurance companies, rental car companies and other companies operating large mobile service force of technicians, installers and similar personnel; municipalities, which include waste management and field workers such as public works; and public safety services, which includes fire departments, ambulances, police and forestry. Micronets products are fully programmable and provide customers with the operational flexibility to customize such products for their ongoing needs via a comprehensive development tool kit package that enables them to develop independently and support their own industry-specific applications and solutions. 4 Recent Developments Micronet believes that awareness and demand for MRM solutions is significantly increasing, as customers seek to optimize workforce productivity and customer satisfaction. In addition, Micronet believes that the local fleet market is considered to be among the leading, largest and fastest growing segments of the MRM market Micronet currently offers its customers optional third party software services based on Android platform devices, which enable customer management and control (configuration and updates) of the products, including updates for the operational system, distance diagnostics of the product and similar services. These services are based on Micronets business cooperation with third party software vendors, which are integrated into the Micronet offered solutions and include guardian system design, or GSD, a cloud based system. Such solutions offer customers and fleets the ability to manage, control and operate their equipment from a distance, perform malfunction diagnostics and improve their efficiency and provide a cost saving solution for the duration of the life of the installed products. Micronet is also developing its own software which will enable the customers to receive reports related to specific data directly from the vehicle computers. In early 2019, Micronet launched its new business and technological services which may include an MRM application store service for the MRM market, which is anticipated to include applications specifically designed for fleet management and workforce management purposes. Micronet is also focusing on adding application layers to its open hardware platforms in order to provide a comprehensive solution for its customers by integrating and developing a dedicated MRM application store that will be open to Micronet's customers, and will enable Micronet to capitalize on the software as a service component of its business model, increasing hardware sales and increasing demand for its services. To this end, Micronet focuses on creating technological and commercial collaborations with MRM applications and application providers to provide comprehensive solutions for its own hardware solutions. We believe that these new products and solutions will further improve the performance and respond to additional specific MRM requirements, allowing Micronets customers to better achieve their desired results and performance. Micronets key initiatives for future revenue growth include the following: expanding sales activities in the North American and European markets, which will include establishing strong relationships with new customers and partners; addressing the local fleet vertical of the MRM market with tablets that are specifically designed to support sales to local fleets through multiple value added resellers by offering advanced features at competitive prices; supporting Android OS, to satisfy a wider customer base, enabling independent application programming and integration with various mission critical automotive system and enterprise-level software solutions; upgrading and enhancing current products and engaging in new product development and launching based on input from clients and partners; and partnering with major truck manufacturers to develop a built-in, telematics platform. Developments in the communications market in recent years have enabled Micronet to integrate its products into new standard technologies, which have reduced communication costs and extended availability, thereby increasing the demand for Micronets products and solutions. Micronet has made significant investments in its facilities, infrastructure and manufacturing capabilities and has made product enhancements and strengthened functionality. 5 Market Opportunity Micronet operates in the MRM market. Micronets customers are located around the world and are telematics service providers that provide fleet management solutions and services, including cloud services, with emphasis on specific vertical markets such as transportation and distribution (short and long distances), passenger transportation (buses, taxis, special transportation), various types of technical services (communications, maintenance), emergency services (police, firefighters, ambulances), etc. The range of replacement products for Micronets products in the MRM market includes retail products such as smartphones, tablets and navigation devices, through Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs, products that are manufactured according to specific specifications for the customer, at various price and performance levels, to products developed and manufactured by customers themselves in-house. On the basis of market data held by Micronet, the size of the global market relevant to Micronet, in terms of the number of vehicles with telematics systems for managing fleet fleets, was approximately 30 million units at the end of 2018. The United States and Europe are leading the market with 13 million and 7 million installed vehicles, respectively, with an average annual growth rate of 17% and 14.2%, respectively. Historically, the United States has been the largest market in which Micronet operates and sells its products. Based on the current information known to us as published by market analysis reports, 13 million GPS devices / mobile devices are used in service with MRM systems to monitor and track fleet of vehicles, carriers, equipment and employees. This number is expected to grow to more than 14 million units by the end of 2019 and to 16 million units at the end of 2020. In 2018, the global penetration rate of MRM systems for fleet management was 15%. In the United States alone, the rate of penetration is expected to increase from 30% at the end of 2018 to about 40% in the years 2019-2020. Most of the products manufactured or marketed by Micronet are intended for sale abroad, in particular to North America, which is currently Micronets main geographical target market. The MRM market is a growing market and accordingly Micronet believes that it can grow in the coming years as a result thereof. Products and Services Micronets products are devices and services for the management of commercial vehicle fleets and the management of mobile resources, and are designed to make the work environment of commercial fleets accessible and convenient, while maintaining the full management and control capability of fleet managers and task managers. Micronets hardware product is a rugged computer / tablet designed for installation in the vehicle (i.e., a cab) as part of an advanced technological solution including fleet management. The company's products include software development tools and various interfaces that support solutions for vertical markets for transportation, buses, service technicians and the like. The company's products, design and development products are based on and support the Android operating system. The handsets enable connection to in-vehicle and out-of-the-box products via wireless communication (via Bluetooth, 3G, 3.5G, LTE, NFC, Wi-Fi) and landline connections such as USB, Serial Ports, Ethernet LAN and GPS. In addition to selling its devices, Micronet now offers its customers with ancillary optional services for its Android-based devices, enabling the customer remote management and control, remote updating of the operating system, remote diagnostics of the device, etc. This service is based on a business cooperation between Micronet and third party specialized software manufacturers in the field of Over The Air service. These software manufacturers fully integrate their software products with Micronet's Android-based product line, including the GSD cloud computing system that provides advanced software tools to manage and support Over The Air updates, thereby enabling remote equipment management and fault diagnosis. Micronets GSD solutions offer operational advantages and cost savings over the period of use of Micronets products. An additional software service offered by Micronet on the basis of dedicated software developed by Micronet, enables its customers to receive reports of specific data they require from their computers. The software is installed on Micronet's computers and regularly monitors the data that passes through the computer network, such as reports of technical problems in the engine, the status of the fuel tank, the mileage, and the speed of the vehicle. Currently, Micronet offers products based on Android OS versions 4, 5.1 and 9 which are expected to be launched in the coming months. Micronet's product line includes several product families including SmarTab, SmartHub, TREQ317 and the TREQ 317OBC. These products have similar characteristics, but are designed for different customer requirements and among other, are based on different price levels. In light of the existing trend of organizations and end users to expand and accelerate the use of the Android operating system, Micronet is focusing on establishing its products on this system, which is an open, flexible and powerful software system that enables innovation and creativity in application development in target markets. Micronet intends to cease supporting its older products which are Windows CE-based products under its end of life policy. 6 Micronet has begun, and intends to continue in 2019, to implement a business activity plan and new technologies, based on an MRM application store service, especially for fleet management and personnel management applications. Micronet is collaborating with several application providers in the market to create integrated solutions on the company's hardware platforms based on the open operating system (Android) and offers a multi-layer solution that includes hardware, operating system and dedicated software that enables its customers to integrate it into the service system in a quick way, while significantly reducing the return on investment time and reducing development and support costs. By implementing this business model, Micronet is interested in expanding its customer base, turning to new marketing and distribution channels and adding a layer of recurring revenue from licensing and software services. Micronets products are currently used by leading vehicle fleet service providers in the United States in the areas of vehicle tracking, navigation, task management, safety, driving improvement, fuel savings, support, etc. The company has products that support the new regulation that has entered into force, or the Electronic Logging Device, or ELD, mandate in relation to the duty of fleet operators to monitor the driving hours of drivers in their vehicles. Strategy Micronets strategy focuses on three major vertical markets: (1) traditional long haul, (2) local fleets and (3) heavy equipment. In each vertical market, Micronet implements the delivery of a comprehensive product offering that satisfies the particular needs of that market, and target potentially larger scale transactions that Micronet expects could result in higher revenue as well as increased gross margin and overall profitability. Micronet continuously analyzes the needs of the markets in which it operates in order to best serve its customers needs. Micronets strategy is driven by, and focused on, both continued internal growth of its business through gaining a larger market share and the development of new potential markets, new technologies and innovative systems and products as well as through acquisitions. The key elements of Micronets strategy include: continuing to invest efforts in its technology and product development, through collaborations with its partners, customers and potential customers; focusing on offering innovative reliable solutions at a competitive price which will target the replacement of in house solutions of the service providers; expanding the sales channels through telecom operators or carriers; penetrating and developing the truck OEM market; partnering with and/or acquiring complementary technology to broaden and deepen its offerings and customer base; and integrating with third party application service providers in order to provide comprehensive solutions, which include hardware and advanced telematics services. Micronet believes that one of its core competitive strengths is the breadth of its expertise in mobile data technologies, particularly in MRM technologies for the management of vehicle fleets and mobile workforces. Micronet intends to enhance its existing products and develop new products by continuing to make investments in research and development. Micronet further intends to continue its strategy of internally developing products in order to enter new market segments, while continuing to leverage its market position in the United States and other global markets, to become a market leader for MRM products and services. 7 Sales and Marketing Micronets customers consist primarily of TSPs and VARs specializing in the fleet and MRM markets. Currently, Micronet does not sell directly to the end users fleets. Micronet's customers are generally leading TSPs and service providers of commercial solutions that integrate a wide range of positioning technologies and computing fleet communications in the MRM market. Micronet products are used by customers worldwide. The United States currently constitutes Micronets largest market, representing approximately 76% of Micronets revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 78% for the year ended December 31, 2017. In any given year, a single Micronet customer may account for a significant portion of Micronets revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2018, Micronets three largest customers represented approximately individually 38%, 17%, 1%, of Micronets revenues, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the Micronet sales team consisted of seven dedicated sales managers including a back office team. Research and Development In order to keep up with the rapid technology evolution and the changing needs of the markets in which it operates, Micronet continues to focus on its innovation and the development of new products and technologies, by continuing to make the necessary investments in research and development. Micronet upgrades and enhances its existing products on an on-going basis, including based on input from its clients and partners and from other sources. Enhancements include the addition of capabilities, improvement of product functionality and performance, and adding features to the existing hardware in order to offer customers a variety of solutions, while continuing to decrease costs to enhance its profit margins and create a competitive market pricing position. In addition, Micronet seeks to design and manage product life cycles through a controlled and structured process. It involves customers and industry experts from its target markets in the definition and refinement of its product development. Product development emphasis is placed on meeting industry standards, ease of integration, cost reduction, design-for manufacturability, versatility and innovation, and quality and reliability. 8 During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, Micronet spent NIS 7.1 million (approximately $2 million) and NIS 7 million (approximately $1.9 million), respectively, on research and development activities. Micronet uses its own resources to finances its research and development activities and none of the cost of such activities is borne by its customers. To date, Micronet has received an aggregate of NIS 5.6 million (approximately $1.4 million) from the Israeli Innovation Authority, or IIA, under these three grants. Micronet is obligated to pay royalties to the IIA amounting to 3%-3.5% of the sales of the products and other related revenues generated from such projects linked to the dollar plus Libor interest rate. Competition Micronet operates in a highly competitive industry. Further, during the last few years, competition in the field of mobile computers has significantly increased with the mass entrance and introduction to the market of smart phones, tablets, and laptops, as well as various GPS-based hand-held devices featuring additional functionalities. The direct competition in the field of dedicated laptops for the management of fleets is held primarily with OEMs, which provide products that enable application development and functional integration according to customer needs. To the best of Micronets knowledge, there are half a dozen such direct competitors operating in Micronets main geographical target market, North America. Most of the competitors are private companies or those who do not publish sales data specific to their products in this field, so the company does not have specific information to estimate its relative share in the market or to directly compare its size or position relative to a particular competitor. Micronet believes that there are several products in the market that compete with its products including mobile devices, which differ among themselves in various parameters. Micronet estimates that its products are competitive in the market and offer customers a beneficial solution in view of the advanced technology implemented in such products. Micronets competitive position is also effected by its market positioning and the reputation it has acquired over the years through its dealings with a wide range of customers and products. Micronet estimates that its Android open operating platform based products provides for a technological edge in the market over a number of competitors, which still base their devices on their internal proprietary operating systems. These systems are closed systems and with the transformation of the world to the use of the Android system becoming the dominant operating system among customers, such vendors may be in an inferior position. Micronet's products align with the trend of the increasing demand in the market for Android-based products, which enable each customer to develop its applications and functionalization according to its needs. A large number of Micronets competitors are private companies or companies that do not disclose their sales or other financial information, making it difficult to estimate Micronets market share and position in the market. Micronet believes that its most significant competitors include the following: CalAmp Corp., Mobile Devices (France), TomTom (Holland), Garmin USA, Inc. and Samsung. In addition, some service providers consider the use of their in-house development capabilities for the supply of their internal needs for mobile devices. This intensely competitive industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and changes in customer requirements. In order to maintain its competitive strength, Micronet must continue to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features which are in line with the technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers. Micronets management believes its strongest competitive advantages are the durability of its products and reputation in the industry. Its competitive strengths include the following: 30 years of field-proven experience, including engineering and manufacturing know-how; ability to deliver solutions and products to organizations and customers that are leaders in their respective industries; 9 ability to integrate advanced technological capabilities to develop new solutions and products with its own manufacturing infrastructures and facilities, as well as leverage overseas manufacturing partners, to have greater control over the end-to-end production process and cost-efficiencies; professional and direct marketing methodology focused on main target customers; reputation as a leading supplier in relevant markets; lasting working relationships with customers; an experienced, dedicated and competent management team; ELD mandate compliant products; and proprietary technology and know-how that allows rapid configuration and implementation of new solutions to meet the special customer needs. Micronet currently operates via two facilities, the first located in Azur, Israel, near Tel Aviv, and the second located in Salt Lake City, Utah. These two operating facilities give Micronet additional manufacturing and marketing flexibility to serve the markets needs, reduce its operational risk, improve its U.S. presence and provide management with additional tools to support the business. Manufacturing Micronet conducts its manufacturing activities mainly through third party subcontractors in Israel and outside of Israel and also using its own U.S. and Israel based facilities. Micronet operates an ISO 9001-2008 certified manufacturing facility. During the past few years, with the exception of certain components purchased from subcontractors, Micronet has relied on itself to manufacture its products and solutions using its own facilities, capabilities and resources, which enable it to control and manage the manufacturing process. However, Micronet has gradually begun utilizing overseas manufacturers and subcontractors for its new product offerings, in combination with its internal manufacturing facilities. As of December 31, 2018, as part of its strategy, Micronet is focused on its core competence, which includes research, development, marketing and support activities. Accordingly with respect to its new product offerings, Micronet has shifted significant parts of its manufacturing activities from its Israeli manufacturing activity to trusted third party manufacturers and subcontractors in and outside of Israel, while increasing its operational flexibility and reducing its fixed costs attributed to the production lines. In addition, Micronet is utilizing overseas manufacturing in conjunction with its internal assembly test lines in Salt Lake City for final provisioning and shipping. Following certain enhancements in its manufacturing and production capabilities, Micronet has manufacturing capacity and has the ability to meet current or foreseeable manufacturing needs without making any significant investments. Implemented enhancements include: upgraded production and assembly line and purchased new machinery with significant higher component implementation scale; increased factory facilities and upgraded various infrastructures; entered into agreements with subcontractors in the field that operate additional manufacturing facilities, and have significant procurement and manufacturing capabilities and resources that are available to Micronet; and 10 certified subcontractors to perform manufacturing process to ensure flexible manufacturing infrastructures and deployment that can be used for disaster recovery scenarios or rapid increase in production needs. If additional manufacturing resources are needed to meet increased demand for Micronets products, manufacturing capacity can be enhanced by adjusting the outsourcing manufacturing processes, recruiting and training additional employees, adding shifts to the labor cycles. Intellectual Property Proprietary rights are important to Micronets business because its ability to remain competitive in the market is dependent to a significant degree on its proprietary solutions and products and the technology on which they are based. To protect its proprietary rights, Micronet primarily relies on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws, internal know-how, and agreements with third parties, such as license agreements. In addition, Micronet employs internal controls such as the use of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. Micronet believes its proprietary technology incorporates processes, know-how, methods, algorithms, hardware and software that are the result of more than 20 years of experience and in-house expertise and thus are not easily copied. There is a significant amount of litigation with respect to intellectual property in the industry in which Micronet operates. Micronet has not, to date, been the subject of any claims or proceedings with regards to infringement of third partys proprietary rights and it believes that its products, solutions and services do not violate or infringe any third partys intellectual property rights. In light of the strong competition in the industry and the innovative solutions and technologies incorporated by Micronet into its recent products, Micronet has been exploring the use of patent applications and is in the process of filing certain patent applications related to its products in the United States, solutions and proprietary technologies. These patents, to the extent granted, are expected to assist Micronet to maintain its technological and competitive position in the market. Micronets management, together with its research and development team, monitor closely and continuously all technological developments in the market. Micronet considers and evaluates on an ad hoc basis whether technology and proprietary assets should be acquired through independent in-house development or through the purchase of patents or other technological licenses. Where the purchase of third party proprietary technology, solution or products is required and can be of advantage to its business, Micronet would purchase a license and pay appropriate royalties or license fees. Micronet currently has all third-party licenses or is in the process of acquiring licenses that it believes are necessary to maintain and develop its business. Government Regulation Micronets business is subject to certain international standards such as U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, Part 15B, FCC ID, European Conformity, or CE, and Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, which define compatibility of interface and telecommunications standards to those implemented in Europe by the European Commission and in the United States by the FCC. Its solutions and products also comply with the E-Mark European standard, which is the standard that defines the compatibility of interface and telecommunications to all appliances installed in and around an automobile. Employees As of December 31, 2018, the Company had approximately 53 full-time employees (and as of March 28, 2019, the Company had approximately 46 full-time employees) and Micronet had approximately 49 full-time employees (as of March 28, 2019, Micronet had approximately 41 full-time employees). Of these employees, 12 were employed in manufacturing positions, and the remainder were employed in sales, research and development, management and administrative positions. Our and Micronets employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement, and both we and Micronet have never experienced a work stoppage. Both we and Micronet, to the best of our knowledge, have good and sustainable relations with our and its employees, respectively. Israeli labor laws and regulations apply to all employees based in Israel. The laws principally address matters such as paid vacation, paid sick days, length of the workday, payment for overtime and severance payments upon the retirement or death of an employee or termination of employment under specified circumstances. The severance payments may be funded, in whole or in part, through a managers insurance fund or a pension fund. The payments to the managers insurance fund or pension fund toward severance amount to 8.3% of wages. Furthermore, Israeli employees and employers are required to pay predetermined sums to the National Insurance Institute of Israel. Since January 1, 1995, these amounts also include payments for health insurance. 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this Annual Report and our other SEC filings before making a decision to invest in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial conditions and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock and warrants may decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry While we have executed the Acquisition Agreement relating to our acquisition by BNN, the closing of the Acquisition Agreement is subject to numerous conditions which may not be satisfied or waived. While we have executed the Acquisition Agreement, the closing of the agreement is subject to numerous closing conditions including, but not limited to, the approval of our stockholders. While the parties believe the conditions to the Acquisition Agreement will be satisfied or waived, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in closing the transaction. If the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the closing of the Acquisition Agreement may not occur, or may be delayed. Such delays may cause us to lose some or all of the intended benefits of the transaction and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and reputation. As a result of Micronets public offering in Israel in February 2019, the Company no longer holds a majority of Micronets outstanding common equity. As a result of the consummation of Micronets public offering in Israel in February 2019, the Companys ownership interest was reduced to 33.88% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet, while the Companys voting interest in Micronet is 39.53% as a result of an irrevocable proxy in our benefit from Mr. David Lucatz, the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer. As a result of the February 2019 offering in Israel, the Company no longer owns a majority stake nor does it have majority voting interest in Micronet. Therefore, the Company may no longer effectively control Micronets business or have significant input in its operations. In addition, since the Company no longer owns a majority stake in Micronet, Micronet may not be considered a subsidiary of the Company and Micronets financial statements may not be consolidated with the Companys financial statements. In addition, as a result of the Company no longer filing Micronets financial statements on a consolidated basis, the Company may not be able to meet Nasdaqs continued listing requirements. If Micronet is unable to develop new products and maintain a qualified workforce Micronet may not be able to meet the needs of its customers in the future Virtually all of the products that Micronet produces and sells are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The markets and industry in which Micronet operates are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The products, systems and solutions needs of Micronets customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, Micronets future performance depends on Micronets ability to develop and manufacture competitive products and solutions, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of Micronets business, Micronet must be able to hire and retain the skilled and qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by its customers. If Micronet is unable to develop new products that meet customers changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, Micronets future revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. 12 We are dependent on the services of our executive officers, whose potential conflicts of interest may not permit us to effectively execute our business strategy . We currently depend on the continued services and performance of David Lucatz, our Chairman and also Micronets Chairman and President. Mr. Lucatz also serves as the President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of D.L. Capital Ltd., or DLC, the primary asset of which is its ownership of shares of our common stock. We have a management and consulting services agreement with DLC. Our business and results of operations may suffer if Mr. Lucatz, other executive officers or directors, are unable to devote the attention necessary to our overall business strategy and operations. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may cause Micronet to incur significant costs and could have a material adverse effect on Micronets operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. A significant portion of Micronets business relates to developing sophisticated products and applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, Micronet may incur significant liabilities that are unique to its products and services. While Micronet maintains insurance for some business risks, it is not practicable to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. In addition, Micronet may seek limitation of potential liability related to the sale and use of its products and systems. Micronet may elect to provide products or services even in instances where it is unable to obtain such indemnification or qualification. Accordingly, Micronet may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of its products and products under development, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results, financial condition and/or cash flows. If Micronet is unable to effectively protect our proprietary technology, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Micronets success and ability to compete are dependent on its proprietary technology. The steps Micronet has taken to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate and Micronet may not be able to prevent others from using its proprietary technology. The methodologies and proprietary technology that constitute the basis of Micronets solutions and products are not protected by patents. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and non-disclosure agreements to which Micronet is a party offer only limited protection. Therefore, others, including our competitors, may develop and market similar solutions and products, copy or reverse engineer elements of Micronets production lines, or engage in the unauthorized use of Micronets intellectual property. Any misappropriation of Micronets proprietary technology or the development of competitive technology may have a significant adverse effect on Micronets ability to compete and may harm our business and financial position. Micronet may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights . Third parties may challenge the validity of Micronets intellectual property rights or bring claims regarding Micronets infringement of a third partys intellectual property rights. This may result in costly litigation or other time-consuming and expensive judicial or administrative proceedings, which could deprive us of valuable rights, cause us to incur substantial expenses and cause a diversion for technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject Micronet to significant liabilities or require it to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Further, if such claims are proven valid, through litigation or otherwise, Micronet may be required to pay substantial financial damages or be required to discontinue or significantly delay the development, marketing, sale or licensing of the affected products and intellectual property rights. Our business may be negatively impacted if Micronet is unable to perform under its contracts. When agreeing to contractual terms, Micronets management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions or events. These projections assess: the productivity and availability of labor; the complexity of the work to be performed; the cost and availability of materials; the impact of delayed performance; and the timing of product deliveries. 13 If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if Micronet faces unexpected contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected and could affect, among other things, our earnings and margins, due to the fact that Micronets contracts are often made on a fixed-price basis. Micronets earnings and margins could be negatively affected by deficient subcontractor performance or unavailable raw materials or components. Micronet relies on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for its products. Subcontractors perform some of the services that Micronet provides to its customers. Micronet depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet its contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Occasionally, Micronet rely on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on its ability to meet its commitments to customers. Micronets ability to perform its obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, deficiencies in the performance of Micronets subcontractors and vendors could result in a customer terminating a contract for default. A termination for default could expose us and Micronet to liability and adversely affect our financial performance and Micronets ability to win new contracts. Micronet depend on major customers for a significant portion of its revenues and its future revenues and earnings could be negatively impacted by the loss or reduction of the demand for its products or services by such customers. A significant portion of Micronets annual revenues derived from a few leading customers. As of December 31, 2018, Micronet had two customers that combined account for approximately 55% of its revenues. Most of Micronets major customers do not have any obligation to purchase additional products or services from the company. Therefore, we cannot provide any assurance that any of Micronets leading customers will continue to purchase solutions, products or services at levels comparable to previous years. Micronet operates in a highly competitive and fragmented market and may not be able to maintain its competitive position in the future. A number of larger competitors have recently entered the MRM market in which Micronet operates. These large competitors have far greater development and capital resources that exceed those available to Micronet. Further, there are competitors of Micronet that offer solutions, products and services similar to those offered by Micronet. If they continue, these trends could undermine Micronets competitive strength and position and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. Micronet is subject to regulations in the United States and Europe, which if failed to be met, could negatively impact Micronets and our business and reputation. Micronets business is subject to certain international standards such as U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, Part 15B, FCC ID, CE and Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, which define compatibility of interface and telecommunications standards to those implemented in the United States by the FCC and in Europe by the European Commission, respectively. Micronets solutions and products also need to comply with the E-Mark European standard, which is the standard that defines the compatibility of interface and telecommunications to all appliances installed in and around an automobile. We and Micronet are exposed to risks from regulators, arising from Micronets failure to comply with the aforementioned international standards, which define interface and communication standards, compliance with the standards of the European Common Market, European Conformity, or the CE, and the requirements of the U.S. Communications Regulatory Commission, the FCC, inclusive of the ELD mandate. If Micronet does not adhere to these international standards, we and Micronet may be limited in marketing Micronets products in such markets, and face fines and/or risks to both our and Micronets reputation, and which may also adversely effect our and Micronets future revenues and earnings. 14 Micronet may cease to be eligible for, or receive reduced, tax benefits under Israeli law, which could negatively impact our profits in the future . Micronet currently receives certain tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments of 1959, as a result of the designation of its production facility as an Approved Enterprise. To maintain its eligibility for these tax benefits, Micronet must continue to meet several conditions including, among others, generating more than 25% of its gross revenues outside the State of Israel and continuing to qualify as an Industrial Company under Israeli tax law. An Industrial Company, according to the applicable Israeli law (Law for the Encouragement of Industry (Taxes), 1969), is a company that resides in Israel (either incorporated in Israel or managed and controlled from Israel) that, during the relevant tax year, derives at least 90% of its income from an Industrial Factory. An Industrial Factory means a factory that is owned by an Industrial Company and where its manufacturing operations constitute a vast majority of the factorys total operations/business. The tax benefits of qualifying as an Industrial Company include a reduction of the corporate tax from 23% for Regular Entities and 16% or 7.5% for Preferred Enterprises (depending on the location of industry) in 2018. In addition, in recent years the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under this program and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate benefits in the future. There is no assurance that Micronet will continue to qualify for these tax benefits or that such tax benefits will continue to be available at their current level, or at all. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase the amount of tax payable by Micronet and, accordingly, reduce our net profit after tax and negatively impact our profits. Because the majority of our officers and directors are located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, you may have no effective recourse against our management for misconduct. Currently, a majority of our directors and officers are or will be nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against such officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities law in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to hear the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Our financial results may be negatively affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Our revenues are mainly denominated in U.S. currency and our costs are mainly denominated in Israeli currency. Where possible, we match sales and purchases in these and other currencies to achieve a natural hedge. Currently, Micronet does not have a policy with respect to the use of derivative instruments for hedging purposes, except that Micronet will consider engaging in such hedging activities on a case by case basis. To the extent we are unable to fully match our sales and purchases in different currencies, our business will be exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We may become a target for cybersecurity disruptions which may impact our business operations. We may be subject to attempted cybersecurity disruptions from a variety of threat actors. If systems for protecting against cybersecurity disruptions prove to be insufficient, the Company, customers, employees or third parties could be adversely affected. Such cybersecurity disruptions could cause physical harm to people or the environment; damage or destroy assets; compromise business systems; result in proprietary information being altered, lost or stolen; result in employee, customer or third party information being compromised; or otherwise disrupt business operations. We could incur significant costs to remedy the effects of such a cybersecurity disruption, as well as in connection with resulting regulatory actions and litigation, and such disruption may harm our relationships with our customers and impact our business reputation. 15 Cost fluctuations in the global hardware and communications market and reducing production costs may have a negative impact on our business and operations . Micronets operations are affected by global hardware prices and communication costs, which are a combined component of the technological solution offered by Micronet to its customers or end users. Also, in order to continue to compete effectively in the target markets, Micronet must continue to streamline its production costs and reduce them in order to enable a competitive price for its products. Micronet must compete among other manufacturers of components and / or products from East Asia including China and India. Micronet's ability to streamline the production process depends, among other things, on its ability to integrate production processes in these areas, as well as to continue to locate target markets and target customers who are interested in purchasing high-end products that are less sensitive to cost. Duration of development and introduction of new products to the market and costs. Due to the long period required in order to develop new technologies and products and the effective ability to introduce such technologies and products to the market, Micronet is exposed to a risk that at such time the development and market introduction process is finalized, alternative products or similar products, solutions or services shall be available in the market distributed and sold by our competitors, gaining market share and acquiring potential customers, all may negatively impact Micronets business results and profits. Economic changes in Micronets target markets may adversely impact its business. Due to the fact that Micronets target markets are mainly located in North America and Europe, the lack of economic stability in such markets, such as slowdown or changes to the demands for products or services offered by Micronet, may adversely affect its operations and results Risks Related to Ownership of our Securities Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your common stock. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities, thereby depressing the market price of our securities. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We have not opted out of the restrictions under Section 203. Our stockholders may experience significant dilution as a result of any additional financing using our equity securities and/or debt securities. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, such as through our Standby Equity Distribution Agreement as described below, or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Sales of additional equity and/or convertible debt securities at prices below certain levels will trigger anti-dilution provisions with respect to certain securities we have previously sold. If additional funds are raised through a credit facility, or the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, lenders under the credit facility or holders of these debt securities or preferred stock would likely have rights that are senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and any credit facility or additional securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. 16 If the price of our common stock is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including but not limited to the following: announcements of developments related to our or Micronets business; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; announcements of technological innovations by Micronet; new products or product enhancements introduced by Micronet or by its competitors; developments in patents and other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in Micronets relationships with our third party manufacturers and/or strategic partners; developments in Micronets relationships with our customers and/or suppliers; regulatory or legal developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; general conditions in the global economy; and the other factors described in this Risk Factors section. For these reasons and others, you should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the value of your investment. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq and, despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, there have been periods when it could be considered thinly-traded, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may have been relatively small or non-existent. Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly-issued securities may be readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell those shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restriction on resale, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, the market price of our common stock could fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Moreover, we may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert managements attention and harm our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock could decline. We do not currently have any significant research coverage by securities and industry analysts and we may never obtain such research coverage. If securities or industry analysts do not commence or maintain coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock might be negatively affected. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us or will cover us downgrades our securities, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock and trading volume to decline. 17 We did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2018 or 2017 and do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have no dividends policy and will consider distributing dividends on a year by year basis. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future, rests within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, our capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. There are no restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, or amended and restated bylaws that restrict us from declaring dividends. There are no assurances that we will pay dividends in the future. Risks Related to Israeli Law and Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel could adversely affect our operations. Our principal offices and one of Micronets operating facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our and Micronets operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been an increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinian Arabs, which has adversely affected the peace process and has negatively influenced Israels relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries, including the Israel-Gaza conflict. Such ongoing hostilities may hinder Israels international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where Micronet can sell its products and solutions. Hostilities involving or threatening Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could materially and adversely affect Micronets or our operations. In addition, Israel-based companies and companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by members of the Arab League and certain other predominantly Muslim countries since Israels establishment. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, we cannot predict whether or in what manner these problems will be resolved. Wars and acts of terrorism have resulted in significant damage to the Israeli economy, including reducing the level of foreign and local investment. Furthermore, certain of our officers and employees may be obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called up for active military duty at any time. All Israeli male citizens who have served in the army are subject to an obligation to perform reserve duty until they are between 40 and 49 years old, depending upon the nature of their military service. Under current Israeli law, the Company and Micronet may not be able to enforce our respective Israeli employees covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our respective former employees. Previously, the Company and Micronet entered, and the Company and Micronet may plan in the future to enter into, non-competition agreements with our key employees, in most cases within the framework of their employment agreements. These agreements prohibit our key employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under applicable Israeli law, the Company and Micronet may be unable to enforce these agreements or any part thereof against our Israeli employees. If the Company and Micronet cannot enforce its non- competition agreements against their respective Israeli employees, then the Company and Micronet may be unable to prevent their competitors from benefiting from the expertise of these former employees, which could impair the Companys business, results of operations and ability to capitalize on Micronets proprietary information. 18 Micronet may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and harm our business. A significant portion of the intellectual property covered by Micronets products has been developed by Micronets employees in the course of their employment for Micronet. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, and recent decisions by the Israeli Supreme Court and the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, Israeli employees may be entitled to remuneration for intellectual property that they develop for us unless they explicitly waive any such rights. To the extent that Micronet is unable to enter into agreements with its future employees pursuant to which they agree that any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement are owned exclusively by Micronet (as it has done in the past), Micronet may face claims demanding remuneration. As a consequence of such claims, Micronet could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to its current and former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect its own and our business. The Israeli identity of certain of Micronets products may adversely affect its ability to sell its products and/or solutions. The sale of Micronets products is affected in certain countries and may be affected in other countries by the international status of the State of Israel. Israeli identity may be used in some cases for promoting sales (in light of the recognition of the technological advantages that exist in Israel) whereas in other cases and is likely to continue to be a disadvantage and result in the cancellation of transactions. Provisions of Israeli law and Micronets amended and restated articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to Micronet and its shareholders. As a company incorporated under the law of the State of Israel, Micronet is subject to Israeli corporate law. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date on which a merger proposal is filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date on which the shareholders of both merging companies have approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a tender offer for all of a companys issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of and a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer approves the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the companys outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, claim that the consideration for the acquisition of the shares does not reflect their fair market value, and petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless accordingly, other than those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer in case the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights., and the acquirer or the company published all required information with respect to the tender offer prior to the tender offers response date. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to Micronet or to its shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. Micronets amended and restated articles of association also contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in its management without the consent of its board of directors. These provisions include the following: no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect director candidates; and the right of Micronets board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which may prevent shareholders from being able to fill vacancies on its board of directors. 19 Micronets operations may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel to perform military service. Micronets employees and consultants in Israel, including members of its senior management, may be obligated to perform one month, and in some cases longer periods, of military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for citizens who hold certain positions in the Israeli armed forces reserves) and, in the event of a military conflict or emergency circumstances, may be called to immediate and unlimited active duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be similar large-scale military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Micronets operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our officers, directors, employees and consultants related to military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect Micronets business and operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. We currently maintain office space in Herzliya, Israel. The lease agreement is for a term of 24 months, effective as of September 15, 2018. Under the lease agreement, we are currently occupying approximately 1,184 square feet and our monthly rent obligation is approximately $3,000. Micronet currently maintains two facilities in adjacent buildings in Azur, Israel. Both of these facilities are leased, one under a long-term lease, or the Long Term Lease, under which Micronet has purchased lease rights from the Israeli Land Administration and was accounted as a capital lease. These leases are generally for a term of 49 years with an option to extend for an additional 49 years. The facility subject to the Long Term Lease is used as Micronets headquarters and the other facility is an industrial building which houses its factory. Micronets executive offices occupy approximately 9,150 square feet and house the corporate functions, sales support, and marketing, finance, engineering and operating groups. The Long Term Lease expires in April 2028, subject to our option to extend the term by another 49 years. We do not pay rent with respect to this facility because we have purchased the lease rights. The factory facility occupies approximately 9,400 square feet at approximately $9,118 per month. The facility is used for the manufacturing and logistic support of the business, including warehouse. During 2018, Micronet paid $140,000 in connection with the Long Term Lease. Micronet believes that its present facilities are suitable for its existing and projected operations for the near future. Micronets U.S. subsidiary, Micronet Inc., maintains leased offices in Salt Lake City, Utah. Micronet Inc.s lease was extended on a month to month basis in May 2016 until either party provides written three months notice to the other. On February 1, 2008, the lease was terminated and Micronet Inc. entered into an agreement with another lessor in the same building. and the rent cost is approximately $236,244 per year. The factory facility in Salt Lake City occupies approximately 10,101 square feet and is used for the assembly and logistic support of the business, including warehouse. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. On March 30, 2017, Micronet announced in an immediate report filed with the Israeli Securities Authority that it received notice from a client, or the Client, relating to tests performed by the Client which, to the Clients belief, revealed a defect in the materials included in the battery integrated into a certain product of Micronet purchased by the Client. In its immediate report, Micronet clarified that the product at issue is an older product that has since been replaced by newer models and is part of the portfolio of products purchased from Beijer in June 2014. The Client filed a complaint, or the Complaint, in this matter with the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or the Regulator. The basis of the Complaint relates to similar problems in the specific product that were previously addressed with the Client pursuant to Micronets warranty and in the ordinary course of business. In light of these events, Micronet performed independent tests to examine the Clients complaint (including addressing the issue with the battery manufacturer) and simultaneously addressed the issue with the Regulator, including filing its response to the Complaint. Micronet does not believe the product in question contains a significant defect, as alleged by the Client and has stated its position in its response to the Regulator. To date, following almost two years, we have not yet received the Regulators response to the Complaint. To date, Micronet has not yet received the Regulators response to the Complaint. Currently, Micronet and the Client have continued to maintain a business relationship notwithstanding the Complaint and are working together to find a technical and commercial solution while discussing a resolution to the dispute related to the Complaint. As of the date hereof, the parties each possess certain claims against the other (Micronet relating to outstanding payments for an existing invoice and the Client with respect to the alleged damage caused to it relating to the matters identified above). In addition, Micronet has informed its insurance carrier of the potential claim. At this stage, we are unable to estimate whether this matter, taking into consideration the fact that Micronet reported that the product discussed is an older generation product that was replaced by marketing of other advanced products, will have a material adverse effect on Micronets prospective sales or on our business. From time to time we may become subject to litigation incidental to our business. Other than as set above, Enertec and Micronet are not currently parties to any material legal proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq under the symbol MICT. Holders As of March 28, 2019, we had 10,734,232 shares of common stock outstanding and such shares were held by 14 stockholders of record. Because some of the shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividends We did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2018 or 2017 and currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have no dividends policy and will consider distributing dividends on a year by year basis. We expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Subject to the foregoing, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the first quarter of 2018, we issued an aggregate of 42,500 shares of our common stock to certain of our service providers as compensation in lieu of cash compensation owed to them for services rendered. During the second quarter of 2018, we issued an aggregate of 75,000 shares of our common stock to certain of our service providers as compensation in lieu of cash compensation owed to them for services rendered. During the third quarter of 2018, we issued an aggregate of 6,000 shares of our common stock to certain of our service providers as compensation in lieu of cash compensation owed to them for services rendered. We claimed exemption from registration under the Securities Act for each of the foregoing transactions under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not applicable. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview The Company operates primarily through an Israel-based subsidiary, Micronet, in which the Company previously had a majority ownership interest that has since been diluted to a minority ownership interest. 21 As of December 31, 2018, we held 49.89% of Micronets issued and outstanding shares, and together with an irrevocable proxy in our benefit from Mr. David Lucatz, our President and Chief Executive Officer, we held 50.07% of the voting interest in Micronet as of such date . On February 24, 2019, Micronet closed a public equity offering on the TASE and as a result of this offering, our ownership interest in Micronet was diluted from 49.89% to 33.88%. On February 24, 2019, Mr. David Lucatz, our President and Chief Executive Officer, executed a new irrevocable proxy assigning his voting power over 1,980,000 shares of Micronet for our benefit. As a result, our current voting interest in Micronet stands at 39.53% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet. The decrease in our voting interest in Micronet will result in a deconsolidation of Micronet and, therefore, from February 24, 2019, we will account for the investment in Micronet in accordance with the equity method. The Company is still assessing the gain/loss that will be recorded as a result thereof and our results in future periods might change significantly as a result of the move to the equity method. Micronet operates in the growing commercial MRM market. Micronet through both its Israeli and U.S. operational offices designs, develops, manufactures and sells rugged mobile computing devices that provide fleet operators and field workforces with computing solutions in challenging work environments. Micronets vehicle portable tablets increase workforce productivity and enhance corporate efficiency by offering computing power and communication capabilities that provide fleet operators with visibility into vehicle location, fuel usage, speed and mileage. This enables the users to manage the drivers in various aspects such as: driver identification, reporting hours worked, customer/organization working procedures and protocols, route management and navigation based on tasks and time schedule. End users may also receive real time messages for various services such as pickup and delivery, repair and maintenance, status reports, alerts, notices relating to the start and ending of work, digital forms, issuing and printing of invoices and payments. In addition, using its recently launched SmartHub, Micronet provides third party telematics service providers a platform to offer services such as Hours of Service. Micronet is also commencing an evaluation of integration with TSPs. Through its SmartHub product, Micronet provides its consumers with services such as driver recognition, identifying and preventing driver fatigue, recognizing driver behavior, preventive maintenance, fuel efficiency and an advanced driver assistance system. Micronets customers consist primarily of ASPs and solution providers specializing in the MRM market. These companies sell Micronets products as part of their MRM systems and solutions. Currently, Micronet does not sell directly to end users. Micronet customers are generally MRM solution and service providers, ASP providers in the transportation market, including long haul, local fleets student transportation (yellow busses) and fleet and field management systems for constructions and heavy equipment. Micronet products are used by customers worldwide. Micronet operates and conducts its business in the U.S. market through Micronet Inc., a fully owned subsidiary located in Utah. The Micronet U.S. business, operations and facilities include manufacturing and technical support infrastructure as well as sales and marketing capabilities which allow Micronet to continue and expand into the U.S. market and support its existing U.S. based customers, all with further accessibility and presence to local fleets and local MRM service providers. Acquisition Agreement with BNN Technology PLC On December 18, 2018, we, BVI Pubco, Merger Sub, BNN, BI China, ParagonEx, certain holders of ParagonExs outstanding ordinary shares and a trustee thereof, and Mark Gershinson, in the capacity as the representative of the ParagonEx sellers, entered into the Acquisition Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Acquisition Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, as a result of which each outstanding share of the Companys common stock and warrant to purchase the same shall be cancelled in exchange for the right of the holders thereof to receive 0.93 substantially equivalent securities of BVI Pubco, after which BVI Pubco will acquire (i) all of the issued and outstanding securities of BI China in exchange for newly issued ordinary shares of BVI Pubco and (ii) all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of ParagonEx for a combination of cash in the amount equal to approximately $25 million (the majority of which was raised in a private placement by BVI Pubco), unsecured promissory notes and newly issued ordinary shares of BVI Pubco. In furtherance of the Acquisitions, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions described in the Acquisition Agreement, BNN agreed to commence a tender offer, or the Offer, as promptly as practicable and no event later than 15 business days after the execution of the Acquisition Agreement, to purchase up to approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock at a price per share of $1.65, net to the sellers in cash, without interest. On March 13, 2019, the deadline for the Tender Offer was extended to April 8, 2019. Additionally, following the Acquisitions, it is contemplated that the certain of our operating business assets, including our interest in Micronet, shall be spun off to our stockholders who continue to retain shares of our common stock after the Offer. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, and assuming that none of the shares of our common stock are purchased by BNN in connection with the Offer, our stockholders will own approximately 5.27% of BVI Pubco after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. 22 Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement is subject to certain closing conditions, including, among other things, approval by the stockholders of MICT. The Acquisition Agreement contains certain termination rights for each of the Company, BNN, BI China and ParagonEx, and further provides that, upon termination of the Acquisition Agreement under specified circumstances, MICT may be required to pay to BNN and ParagonEx a termination fee of $900,000, and BNN and ParagonEx may be required to pay to us a base termination fee of $1.8 million, which shall increase to $3 million under certain specified circumstances. The Acquisition Agreement also contains customary representations, warranties and covenants made by, among others, the Company, BNN and BI China, ParagonEx, and BVI Pubco and Merger Sub, including as to the conduct of their respective businesses (as applicable) between the date of signing the Acquisition Agreement and the closing of the transactions contemplated thereby. The Acquisition Agreement provides that, as a result of the transactions contemplated thereby, options to purchase shares of the Companys common stock that are outstanding and unexercised shall be converted into and become options to purchase ordinary shares of BVI Pubco, and BVI Pubco shall assume our 2012 Stock Incentive Plan and 2014 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect as of the date of the Acquisition Agreement. The Companys board of directors has approved the Acquisition Agreement. The Acquisition Agreement does not obligate our board of directors to recommend that our stockholders accept the Offer and tender their shares of our common stock at the Offer Price, and our board of directors will make its determination regarding whether to make such a recommendation or to remain neutral at or around the time the Offer is launched. The obligation of BNN to consummate the Offer is subject to a number of conditions, including (i) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the Company, (ii) compliance by the Company with certain Nasdaq requirements, and (iii) certain other customary conditions. The consummation of the Offer is not subject to any financing condition or any condition regarding any minimum number of shares of our common stock being validly tendered in the Offer. The foregoing description of the Acquisition Agreement, the Offer, and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Acquisition Agreement, which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. Voting Agreement . In connection with the execution and delivery of the Acquisition Agreement, David Lucatz, on behalf of his affiliates that are stockholders of the Company entered into the Voting Agreement, pursuant to which, during the term of such agreement, the Stockholder has agreed to certain actions in support of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and will, at every meeting of the stockholders of the Company called for such purpose, and at every adjournment or postponement thereof (or in any other circumstances upon which a vote, consent or approval is sought, including by written consent), not vote any of his shares of the Companys common stock at such meeting in favor of, or consent to, and will vote against and not consent to, the approval of any alternative proposal that is intended, or would reasonably be expected, to prevent, impede, interfere with, delay or adversely affect in any material respect the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. The foregoing description of the Voting Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Voting Agreement, a form of which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. Amendment to Warrants and Debentures . On December 17, 2018, we entered into the YA Agreement, with YA, with respect to (i) the secured convertible debentures due October 1, 2019 held by YA, which were issued pursuant to that certain securities purchase agreement dated March 29, 2018 between YA, the Company, and Enertec Electronics Ltd. and (ii) the warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,187,500 shares of the Companys common stock held by YA, with exercise prices ranging from $1.50 to $4.00 and expiration dates ranging from June 30, 2021 to March 29, 2023. Pursuant to the YA Agreement, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and effective upon the consummation of the Acquisitions, the Replacement Warrants, exercisable at $2.00 per share for a number of ordinary shares of BVI Pubco equal to the number of shares underlying the Warrants immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Acquisitions (subject to adjustment as described therein). YA also agreed that it would not convert the Debentures into more than one million shares of the Companys common stock during the period between the execution of the YA Agreement and the earlier to occur of the effectiveness of the Acquisitions or the termination of the Acquisition Agreement. We agreed to pay in cash the remaining outstanding principal amount and all accrued interest with respect to the Debentures as of the consummation of the Acquisitions, subject to any applicable redemption premiums. The foregoing description of the YA Agreement and the Replacement Warrants does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the YA Agreement and the Replacement Warrants, forms which were are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. 23 As of February 21, 2019, the Company had issued to YA 250,000 share of common stock at a purchase price per share of $1.00. On March 13, 2019, the Company issued an additional 996,817 share of common stock at a purchase price per share of $1.10. These issuances of the Companys common stock to YA reduced the debt owed to YA such that as of April 1, 2019, the balance of the debt is $1,750,000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $14,162,000, compared to $18,366,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This represents a decrease of $4,204,000, or 23%, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to a decrease in customer orders, and their value, a trend that has continued throughout the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. Micronet is experiencing a significant decline in the rate at which it receives new orders, against the background of a record volume of orders recorded by Micronet at the end of 2017, which contributed to the high revenues in the first half of 2018. The decrease in orders received in 2018 has had a significant effect on the low revenues recorded in the year ended December 31, 2018. Micronet believes that the reasons for the decrease in the volume of the orders are (i) the delay in the launch of its fourth generation products, (ii) high levels of inventory among its customers and (iii) increased competition in the market for the Micronets products. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $762,000 to $3,510,000, and represents 25% of the revenues. This is in comparison to gross profit of $4,272,000, or 23% of the revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 is mainly a result of the decrease in revenues and slow inventory reduction due to decreased sales of Micronets products. In light of these developments, Micronet has taken steps to cut costs as appropriate (as reflected in lower employee headcount noted above) and taken other efficiency measures. It also has now introduced its fourth generation products into the market. In light of the foregoing, Micronet anticipates improved profitability in 2019 but at the same time, Micronet is closely monitoring the situation and will take steps necessary and appropriate as circumstances evolve. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing costs are part of operating expenses. Selling and marketing costs for year ended December 31, 2018 were $1,582,000, compared to $1,883,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This represents a decrease of $301,000, or 16%, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease is mainly due to decreased commission expenses resulting from the revenue decrease described above. General and Administrative General and administrative costs are part of operating expenses. General and administrative costs for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $6,345,000, compared to $4,116,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This represents an increase of $2,229,000, or 54%, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increases are mainly a result of (i) increases in expenses related to Enertecs sale, including professional expenses and bonuses paid to our Chief Executive Officer and certain consultants, (ii) options and shares granted to employees and directors and (iii) the existence of doubtful debt in the amount of $1,327,000. 24 Impairment of Goodwill Micronet performed goodwill impairment tests until 2016. The goodwill impairment test is conducted in two steps. In the first step, Micronet determines the fair value of the reporting unit using expected future discounted cash flows and estimated terminal values. If the net book value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Micronet would then perform the second step of the impairment test, which requires allocation of the reporting unit's fair value of all its assets and liabilities in a manner similar to acquisition cost allocation, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill is then compared to the carrying value to determine impairment, if any. Starting in 2017, the Micronet now determines the fair value of the reporting unit using the income approach, which utilizes a discounted cash flow model, as the Micronet believes that this approach best approximates the units fair value at this time. Micronet has corroborated the fair values using the market approach. Judgments and assumptions related to revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital, interest, capital expenditures, cash flows, and market conditions are inherent in developing the discounted cash flow model. Additionally, Micronet evaluated the reasonableness of the estimated fair value of its reporting unit by reconciling its market capitalization. This reconciliation allowed the Micronet to consider market expectations in corroborating the reasonableness of the fair value of the reporting unit. Following such reconciliation, Micronet found that there was a material difference (approximately 54%) between the fair value of the reporting unit and its market capitalization as of December 31, 2017. Micronet has one operating segment and one operating unit related to its product offerings in the MRM market. Until 2017, step one of the assessment resulted in the carrying value of the MRM reporting unit exceeding its fair value. As described in the preceding paragraphs, the second step was performed by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. There were no impairments recorded until 2017. As of December 31, 2018, Micronet market capitalization was significantly lower than the net book value of the reporting unit. In establishing the appropriate market capitalization, the Micronet looked at the date that the annual impairment test is performed (December 31, 2018). In order to calculate its market capitalization, Micronet used the price per share of NIS 0.46. Following the results of the step one test, Micronet continued to the second step, which was performed by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. Micronet determined that the carrying value of goodwill should be impaired and therefore an impairment of $1.466 million was recorded. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are part of operating expenses. Research and development costs, which mainly include wages, materials and sub-contractors, for the year ended December 31, 2018, were $1,906,000, compared to $1,964,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This represents a decrease of $58,000, or 3%, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in research and development costs for the year ended December 31, 2018 is primarily a result of the change in the exchange rate of NIS to the U.S. dollar. Loss from Operations Our loss from operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $9,087,000, or 64% of revenues, compared to loss from operations of $4,669,000, or 25% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2018 is mainly a result of the decrease in revenues as described above. Financial Expenses, net Financial expenses, net for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $1,267,000, compared to expenses of $401,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This represents an increase of $866,000, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in financial expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 is primarily due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest for the YA loans. Net Profit/Loss Attributed to MICT, Inc. Our net loss attributed to MICT, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $2,217,000, compared to a net loss of $8,157,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This represents a decrease in net loss of $5,940,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to the same period last year. The decrease in net loss is primarily attributable to the closing of the sale of all of Enertecs outstanding equity to Coolisys pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement. 25 Discontinued Operation As a result of the sale of our Enertec subsidiary to Coolisys, we classified Enertecs assets and liabilities as held for sale and the results of operations in the statement of operations and prior periods results have been reclassified as a discontinued operation. Enertecs net loss decreased from $4,901,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017, to a net profit of $4,894,000 for the five months ended May 22, 2018. The net loss for the five months ended May 22, 2018 was partially offset by the $6,844,000 capital gain realized from such sale, resulting in a net profit of $4,894,000. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company finances its operations through current revenues, loans and securities offerings. The loans are divided into bank loans and loans from YA, all as described below . As of December 31, 2018, our total cash and cash equivalents and restricted balance was $2,174,000, as compared to $2,398,000 as of December 31, 2017. This reflects a decrease of $224,000 in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents is primarily a result of increases in expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash used in operating activities was $5,315,000, as compared to $4,073,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The change in operating activities is primarily a result of an decrease in trade accounts receivable and inventories. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash provided by investing activities was $4,251,000, as compared to $2,860,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The change in investing activities is primarily a result of the sale of Enertec in 2018, offset by the sale of marketable securities in 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities was $994,000, as compared to $2,387,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017. The change in financing activities is primarily a result of bank loan repayments, partially offset by proceeds from Micronets sale of shares in 2017. On December 31, 2017, we, Enertec and our previously wholly owned subsidiary, Enertec Management Ltd., entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with Coolisys, a subsidiary of DPW, pursuant to which we agreed to sell the entire share capital of Enertec to Coolisys. On May 22, 2018, the Company completed the Closing. At the Closing, the Company received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $4.7 million, of which 10% will be held in escrow for up to 14 months after the Closing to satisfy certain potential indemnification claims. The final consideration amount was adjusted, pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, as a result of adjustments relating to certain Enertecs debts at the Closing. In addition, Coolisys also assumed approximately $4.0 million of Enertecs debt. In conjunction with, and as a condition to, the closing of the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company, Enertec, Coolisys, DPW and Mr. David Lucatz, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, agreed to execute a consulting agreement, or the Consulting Agreement, whereby the Company, via Mr. Lucatz, will provide Enertec with certain consulting and transitional services over a 3 year period as necessary and requested by the Coolisys (but in no event to exceed 20% of Mr. Lucatzs time). Coolisys (via Enertec) will pay the Company an annual consulting fee of $150,000 as well as issue the Company 150,000 restricted shares of DPW Class A common stock, or the DPW Equity, for such services, to be vested and released from restriction in three equal installments, with the initial installment vesting the day after the closing and the remaining installments vesting on each of the first 2 anniversaries of the closing. In the event of a change of control in the Company, or if Mr. Lucatz shall no longer be employed by the Company, the rights and obligations under the Consulting Agreement shall be assigned to Mr. Lucatz along with the DPW Equity. 26 Prior to March 29, 2018, the Company and MICT Telematics (formerly known as Enertec Electronics Ltd.) entered into a series of Note Purchase Agreements with YA, whereby YA purchased an aggregate of $3.2 million of notes from the Company. On March 29, 2018, the Company and MICT Telematics executed and closed on a securities purchase agreement with YA, whereby the Company issued and sold to YA(1) certain Series A Convertible Debentures in the aggregate principal aggregate amount of $3.2 million, or the Series A Debentures, and (2) a Series B Convertible Debenture in the principal aggregate amount of $1.8 million, or the Series B Debenture. The Series A Debentures were issued in exchange for the cancellation and retirement of certain promissory notes issued by the Company to YA on October 28, 2016, December 22, 2016, June 8, 2017 and August 22, 2017, or collectively, the Prior Notes, with a total outstanding aggregate principal amount of $3.2 million. The Series B Debenture was issued and sold for aggregate gross cash proceeds of $1.8 million. At the closing of the transactions contemplated by the securities purchase agreement, the Company agreed to pay YA, or its designee, a commitment fee of $90,000, an extension fee of $50,000 relating to the prior extension of the secured promissory note issued on August 22, 2017, and $126,786.74 representing the accrued and unpaid interest on the Prior Notes. Pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement, the Company agreed not to create, incur or assume any new indebtedness, liens or enter into a variable rate transaction, subject to certain exceptions, until the repayment of the Series B Debenture. Pursuant to the terms of the Series A Debentures, YA may elect to convert the required payments due thereunder into the Companys common stock at a fixed conversion price of $2.00 per share. In addition, the Company may, at its sole discretion, convert a required payment at a conversion price equal to 98.5% of the lowest daily volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock during the ten consecutive trading days immediately preceding a conversion, provided that such price may not be less than $0.50. In addition, pursuant to a Series A Debentures, the Company agreed to pay YA $63,287 representing the remaining unpaid and accrued interest from one of the Prior Notes within 90 days. Pursuant to the terms of the Series B Debenture, YA may elect to convert the required payments due thereunder into the Companys common stock at a fixed conversion price of $4.00 per share. In addition, the Company may, at its sole discretion, convert a required payment at a conversion price equal to 98.5% of the lowest daily volume weighted average price during the ten consecutive trading days immediately preceding a conversion, provided that such price may not be less than $0.50. Upon a change of control of the Company, YA may elect to convert the Series A Debentures and Series B Debenture at either the relevant fixed conversion price or the variable conversion price, at its sole discretion. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined in the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture), all amounts payable may be due immediately and YA may elect to convert the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture at either the relevant fixed conversion price or the variable conversion price, at its sole discretion. The Series A Debentures and Series B Debenture are secured by a pledge of shares of Micronet owned by MICT Telematics. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement, the Company agreed to issue to YA a warrant to purchase 375,000 shares of the Companys common stock at a purchase price of $2.00 per share, a warrant to purchase 200,000 shares of the Companys common stock at a purchase price of $3.00 per share and a warrant to purchase 112,500 shares of the Companys common stock at a purchase price of $4.00 per share. In conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debentures, a total of $273,787 in fees and expenses were deducted from the aggregate gross proceeds. The Company evaluated whether the changes represent a troubled debt restructuring, or TDR, and concluded that it does not meet TDR requirements, and in addition, evaluated as to whether modifications to the terms of the loans were in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 470-50-40 Derecognition, and the Company concluded that the Series A and Series B Debentures are substantially different from the prior loans. Therefore, these modifications were accounted for as an extinguishment of the existing debt. As a result, the Company recorded an expense of $334. 27 In addition, in June 2018, we made aggregate payments of $875 towards the repayment of the Series A Debentures. On July 3, 2018, the Company made a payment of $1,000 towards the repayment of the Series A Debentures. In addition, on July 5, 2018, a payment of $125,000 was made in shares of the Companys common stock at an applicable conversion price of $1.1158 per share pursuant to the terms of the Series A Debentures. On February 21, 2019 and on March 13, 2019, the Company issued to YA 250,000 shares and 996,817 shares, respectively, in consideration for the repayment of the debt in a principle amount of $1,250,000. As of the date hereof the current outstanding principle debt to YA is $1,750,000. On December 17, 2018, the Company entered into the YA Agreement with respect to (i) the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture, and (ii) the warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,187,500 shares of the Companys common stock held by YA, with exercise prices ranging from $1.50 to $4.00 and expiration dates ranging from June 30, 2021 to March 29, 2023, or collectively, the Warrants. Pursuant to the YA Agreement, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and effective upon the consummation of the acquisition, the Warrants shall be replaced by certain new warrants, or the Replacement Warrants, exercisable at $2.00 per share for a number of ordinary shares of BVI Pubco equal to the number of shares underlying the Warrants immediately prior to the effectiveness of the acquisition (subject to adjustment as described therein). YA also agreed that it would not convert the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture into more than one million shares of the Companys common stock during the period between the execution of the YA Agreement and the earlier to occur of the effectiveness of the acquisition or the termination of the Acquisition Agreement. The Company agreed to pay in cash the remaining outstanding principal amount and all accrued interest with respect to the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture as of the consummation of the Acquisitions, subject to any applicable redemption premiums. On December 17, 2018, we entered into the YA Agreement with YA with respect to (i) the secured convertible debentures due October 1, 2019 held by YA, which were issued pursuant to that certain securities purchase agreement dated March 29, 2018 between YA, the Company, and Enertec Electronics Ltd., and (ii) the warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,187,500 shares of the Companys common stock held by YA, with exercise prices ranging from $1.50 to $4.00 and expiration dates ranging from June 30, 2021 to March 29, 2023. Pursuant to the YA Agreement, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and effective upon the consummation of the Acquisitions, the Warrants shall be replaced by certain new warrants, or the Replacement Warrants, exercisable at $2.00 per share for a number of ordinary shares of BVI Pubco equal to the number of shares underlying the Warrants immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Acquisitions (subject to adjustment as described therein). YA also agreed that it would not convert the Debentures into more than one million shares of the Companys common stock during the period between the execution of the YA Agreement and the earlier to occur of the effectiveness of the Acquisitions or the termination of the Acquisition Agreement. We agreed to pay in cash the remaining outstanding principal amount and all accrued interest with respect to the Debentures as of the consummation of the Acquisitions, subject to any applicable redemption premiums. On August 22, 2017, the Company entered into a Standby Equity Distribution Agreement, or the 2017 SEDA, with YA for the sale of up to $10 million of shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.001 per share, over a three-year commitment period. Under the terms of the 2017 SEDA, the Company may from time to time, in its discretion, sell newly-issued shares of its common stock to YA at a discount to market of 1.5%. The Company is not obligated to utilize any of the $10 million available under the 2017 SEDA and there are no minimum commitments or minimum use penalties. The total amount of funds that ultimately can be raised under the 2017 SEDA over the three-year term will depend on the market price for the Companys common stock and the number of shares actually sold. YA is obligated under the SEDA to purchase shares of the Companys common stock from the Company subject to certain conditions including, but not limited to the Company filing a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, to register the resale by YA of shares of common stock sold to YA under the 2017 SEDA and the SEC declaring such registration statement effective. The 2017 SEDA does not impose any restrictions on the Companys operating activities. During the term of the 2017 SEDA, YA is prohibited from engaging in any short selling or hedging transactions related to the Companys common stock. To date, the Company has not sold any shares under the 2017 SEDA. 28 In connection with the 2017 SEDA, the Company agreed to pay YA Global II SPV, LLC (as designee of YA), a commitment fee in the amount of $800,000, or the Commitment Fee, in the aggregate, which was to be paid in eight quarterly installments of $100,000, with the first installment due and payable on the fifth trading day following the execution of the 2017 SEDA. The Commitment Fee may be paid in cash or shares of the Companys common stock. The Company paid YA $50,000 out of the first installment of the Commitment Fee. On November 19, 2017, we entered into an agreement with YA whereby the commitment fee repayment terms were amended such that (i) $200,000 of the commitment fee shall be payable as follows: $50,000 was due and payable on March 31, 2018, $50,000 was due and payable on September 30, 2018, $50,000 shall be due and payable on March 31, 2019, and $50,000 shall be due and payable on September 30, 2019, and (ii) we shall pay the remaining $600,000 as follows: $90,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $3,000,000, $30,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $4,000,000, $30,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $5,000,000, $150,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $6,000,000, $50,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $7,000,000, $130,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $8,000,000, $60,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $9,000,000 and $60,000 shall be paid when the aggregate advance amounts under the SEDA shall total $10,000,000. On May 8, 2018, the Company and YA mutually agreed to terminate the 2017 SEDA. As a result of the termination of the 2017 SEDA, the Company's obligation to pay any and all of the remaining commitment fee owned under the 2017 SEDA was terminated. On November 22, 2017, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with one investor, an affiliate of YA, for the sale of 555,556 shares of the our common stock at a purchase price per share of $0.90 per share in a registered direct offering for total gross proceeds of $500,000. The shares were offered and sold by us pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-219596). The net proceeds to us from the offering, after deducting fees and expenses, were $495,000. On February 22, 2018, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with D-Beta One EQ, Ltd., an existing stockholder and an affiliate of YA, an existing lender, stockholder and warrant-holder of ours and whom we have entered into the 2017 SEDA, for the sale of 456,308 shares of our common stock at a purchase price per share of $1.05 per share in a registered direct offering for total gross proceeds of approximately $479,123. The shares were offered and sold by us pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-219596). The net proceeds to us from the offering, after deducting fees and expenses, were approximately $474,123. On December 30, 2015, we entered into a Loan Agreement, or the Meydan Loan, with the Meydan Family Trust No. 3, or Meydan, pursuant to which Meydan agreed to loan the Company $750,000 on certain terms and conditions. The proceeds of the Meydan Loan were used by us for working capital and general corporate needs. The Meydan Loan bore interest at the rate of Libor plus 8% per annum and was due and payable in 4 equal installments beginning on July 10, 2016. The Meydan Loan was fully paid in March 2018. On June 17, 2014, MICT Telematics entered into a loan agreement, or the Mercantile Loan Agreement, with Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd., or Mercantile Bank, pursuant to which Mercantile Bank agreed to loan the Company approximately $3,631,000 on certain terms and conditions, or the Mercantile Loan. The proceeds of the Mercantile Loan were used by the Company: (1) to refinance previous loans granted to the Company in the amount of approximately $1,333,000; (2) to complete the purchase by the Company, via Enertec, of 1.2 million shares of Micronet constituting 6.3% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet; and (3) for working capital and general corporate purposes. 29 Pursuant to the terms of the Mercantile Loan Agreement: (1) approximately $3,050,000 of the Mercantile Loan bears interest at a quarterly adjustable rate of Prime plus 2.45%, or the Mercantile Long Term Portion, and (2) approximately $581,000 of the Mercantile Loan bears interest at a quarterly adjustable rate of Prime plus 1.7%, or the Mercantile Short Term Portion. The Mercantile Long Term Portion is due and payable in five equal consecutive annual installments beginning on July 1, 2015, and the interest on the Mercantile Long Term Portion is due and payable in ten equal consecutive annual installments beginning at January 1, 2015. The Mercantile Short Term Portion in the amount of approximately $581,000 bears interest of Prime plus 1.7%. The Mercantile Loan is secured mainly by (1) a negative pledge on MICT Telematics assets, (2) a pledge of MICT Telematics financial deposits which shall be equal to 25% of MICT Telematics outstanding credit balance, and (3) a fixed charge of Micronet shares at such value equal to at least 200% of the outstanding net balance of the Mercantile Loan. The Mercantile Loan is subject to customary covenants, terms, conditions, events of default and certain pre-payment provisions. As of December 31, 2018, the balance on the Mercantile Loan was $231,000 and the interest rates were Prime plus 2.45%. As of April 1, 2019, the Company hasnt met the covenants of the Mercantile Loan. Pursuant to the terms of the Mercantile Loan Agreement, the parties agreed to grant Mercantile Bank a five-year Phantom Stock Option, or the Phantom Stock Option, pursuant to which Mercantile Bank is entitled to participate in the future appreciation of the Companys shares and receive a cash amount equal to the increase in the value of the shares underlying the Phantom Stock Option on certain terms and conditions. The Phantom Stock Option allows Mercantile Bank to theoretically exercise, on a cashless basis, options to purchase 1,144,820 shares of Micronet, or the Option Shares, and to receive a cash amount equal to the difference between approximately 4 million NIS, (representing 110% of the average market value of Micronet Option Shares during the 30 trading days prior to the date of the Mercantile Loan) and the actual market price of such Option Shares on the date of the exercise of the Phantom Stock Option. Pursuant to the Mercantile Loan Agreement, the parties further agreed that the potential gain to Mercantile Bank resulting from the Phantom Stock Option shall not exceed NIS 3 million. In the event the Mercantile Loan is repaid prior to the third anniversary of the Mercantile Loan, the gain to Mercantile Bank resulting from the Phantom Stock Option shall not exceed NIS 2 million. As of the date of the Mercantile Loan the exercise price of the Phantom Stock Options is higher than the market price of the Option Shares. As of December 31, 2018, the fair value of this Phantom Stock Option was less than $1. In March 2018, Micronet entered into a credit line agreement, or the Mizrahi-Tefahot Credit Line, with Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank for borrowings of up to a total of $1,335,000 at a rate of Prime plus 1.9%. As of December 31, 2018, the balance on the Mizrahi-Tefahot Credit Line was $1,335,000. Micronet may cancel the Mizrahi-Tefahot Loan Agreement with an advance notice of 14 days. This credit arrangement was obtained to support Micronets working capital. On July 10, 2018, Micronet received a loan from Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank in the amount of NIS 5 million, in accordance with a financing agreement dated March 25, 2018. The loan will bear annual interest at a rate of Prime plus 2.5%. The loan has a term of 36 months and will be repaid in twelve quarterly installments payable from October 10, 2018 to July 11, 2021. As of December 31, 2018, the balance of the loan was NIS 4,649,000 (approximately $1,240,000). Pursuant to these borrowing arrangements, Micronet has covenanted that it will present separate financial statements reflecting: (A) annual EBITDA shall of not less than $750,000; (B) the ratio of customer debt to financial credit (credit utilized by Micronet under each agreement with Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank for the deduction of bank guarantees) shall not be less than 1:1 on the basis of a report; (C) the ratio of inventory to financial credit shall not be less than 1:1 on the basis of a semi-annual report; and (D) the tangible shareholders equity shall not be less than NIS 15,000,000 (or approximately $4,286,000) and not less 35% of the total balance sheet deducted on the basis of the Micronets semi-annual reports. As of December 31, 2018, Micronet has not met these covenants. As of December 31, 2018, our total current assets were $7,901,000, as compared to $25,308,000 at December 31, 2017. The decrease is mainly due to the closing of the sale of all of Enertecs outstanding equity to Coolisys pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement and due to a decrease in trade accounts receivable. Our trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2018 were $1,010,000 as compared to $5,183,000 at December 31, 2017. The decrease is due to the decrease in revenues, which decreased as a result of the lower revenues caused by the decrease in orders received during the year ended December 31, 2018. In addition, we expensed doubtful debt of $1,327 for the year ended December 31, 2018. 30 As of December 31, 2018, our working capital was - $684,000, as compared to $3,062,000 at December 31, 2017. The decrease in the working capital is primarily due to the decrease in trade accounts receivable and increase in loans. As of December 31, 2018, our total debt (including current portion on long-term loans from others) was $5,810,000 as compared to $5,168,000 at December 31, 2017. Our bank debt is composed of short-term loans amounting to $2,806,000 as of December 31, 2018 compared to $1,582,000 at December 31, 2017. Our current debt includes our bank debt described above and loans from YA: Our bank debt is composed of short-term loans to MICT Telematics and Micronet amounting to $2,806,000 as of December 31, 2018 compared to $1,582,000 at December 31, 2017. The short-term loans bear interest rates between Israeli prime (currently 1.75%) plus 2.45% to 2.5%. The long-term loans have maturity dates between July 2019 and July 2021 and bear interest rates Israeli Prime plus 2.5%. MICT Telematics has covenanted under its bank loan mainly that the Company will present separate financial statements equity of not less than 32.5% of total assets. MICT Telematics had not met all of its bank covenants as of December 31, 2018 and as a result, a portion of amounts owed by us under this bank loan were accelerated to the bank prior to their maturity date. As described above, on March 29, 2018, the Company and MICT Telematics executed and closed on a securities purchase agreement with YA, whereby the Company issued and sold to YA (1) the Series A Convertible Debentures in the aggregate principal aggregate amount of $3.2 million and (2) the Series B Convertible Debenture in the principal aggregate amount of $1.8 million. As of December 31, 2018, we paid $2,000,000 of the loan and as of April 1, 2019, we have paid $3,250,000 of the loan. Financing Needs We will be required to support our operational financial needs which include among other our general and administrations costs (such as for our various consultants in regulatory, tax, legal, accounting and other areas of business) and our financing costs related to the loans and funding instruments assumed by us. We may also be required, among other activities, to support Micronets growing MRM manufacturing and financing needs, continue the development and testing of Micronet's suite of products and systems, increase management, marketing and administration infrastructure, and embark on developing in-house business capabilities and facilities. Such liquidity and capital funding requirements will depend on numerous factors, including but not limited to (1) the levels and costs of research and development initiatives, (2) the cost of hiring, training and certifying additional highly skilled professionals (mainly engineers and technicians), and maintaining our management including sales and marketing personnel to promote products, and (3) the cost and timing of the expansion of development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. 31 During the year ended December 31, 2018, we paid a portion of our outstanding bank loans and the entire outstanding debt owed to Meydan, in the aggregate amount of $1,640,000 of principal and accrued interest then owed. We further repaid part of the debt owed to YA in the amount of $2,000,000, using the proceeds we received as a result of the sale of Enertec and the conversion of part of the debt by YA into equity for the issuance of shares of our common stock in consideration thereof. The Company filed a Form S-3 registration statement (File No. 333-219596) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with the SEC using a shelf registration process, which was declared effective on July 31, 2017. Under this shelf registration process, we may, from time to time, sell common stock, warrants or units in one or more offerings up to a total dollar amount of $30,000,000, pursuant to which we have sold approximately $1,000,000 of our securities to date. On March 29, 2018, the Company and MICT Telematics executed and closed on a securities purchase agreement with YA, whereby the Company issued and sold to YA (1) the Series A Convertible Debentures in the principal aggregate amount of $3,200,000 and (2) the Series B Convertible Debenture in the principal aggregate amount of $1,800,000. Based on our current business plan and existing loans, we anticipate that our existing cash balances and cash generated from future sales will be sufficient to permit us to conduct our operations and carry out our contemplated business plans for the next twelve months. However, we believe that we may need to raise additional funds if we want to materially decrease our dependence on our existing cash and other liquidity resources. Currently, the only external sources of liquidity are our banks and the YA loans, and we may seek additional financing from them or through securities offerings. We intend to use such funds, if any, in order to sustain our operations and refinance our various debts. However, we may also undertake additional debt or conduct equity financings (including sales of common stock, warrants or units under our shelf registration statement) to better enable us to grow and meet our future operating and capital requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to consummate such offerings on favorable terms or at all. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect that is material to investors on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Critical Accounting Policies Principles of consolidation . The consolidated financial statements include the Companys and its subsidiaries financial statements. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its operating activities. In assessing control legal and contractual rights are taken into account. The consolidated financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control is achieved until the date that control ceases. Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated upon consolidation. Accounts receivable and allowances for doubtful accounts . Our trade receivables include amounts due from customers. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and we require collateral as deemed necessary. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make payments. In judging the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider multiple factors including the aging of our receivables, historical bad debt experience and the general economic environment. Management applies considerable judgment in assessing the realization of receivables, including assessing the probability of collection and the current creditworthiness of each customer. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. 32 Long-Lived Assets and Intangible assets. Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The company evaluates property and equipment and purchased intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company assesses the recoverability of the assets based on the undiscounted future cash flow and recognizes an impairment loss when the estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset plus the net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset. When the Company identifies an impairment, it reduces the carrying amount of the asset to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach or, when available and appropriate, to comparable market values. As of December 31, 2017, no indicators of impairment have been identified. As of December 31, 2018 all intangible assets were fully amortized. Goodwill. Micronet performed goodwill impairment tests until 2016. The goodwill impairment test is conducted in two steps. In the first step, Micronet determines the fair value of the reporting unit using expected future discounted cash flows and estimated terminal values. If the net book value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Micronet would then perform the second step of the impairment test, which requires allocation of the reporting unit's fair value of all its assets and liabilities in a manner similar to acquisition cost allocation, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill is then compared to the carrying value to determine impairment, if any. Starting in 2017, the Micronet now determines the fair value of the reporting unit using the income approach, which utilizes a discounted cash flow model, as the Micronet believes that this approach best approximates the units fair value at this time. Micronet has corroborated the fair values using the market approach. Judgments and assumptions related to revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital, interest, capital expenditures, cash flows, and market conditions are inherent in developing the discounted cash flow model. Additionally, Micronet evaluated the reasonableness of the estimated fair value of its reporting unit by reconciling its market capitalization. This reconciliation allowed the Micronet to consider market expectations in corroborating the reasonableness of the fair value of the reporting unit. Following such reconciliation, Micronet found that there was a material difference (approximately 54%) between the fair value of the reporting unit and its market capitalization as of December 31, 2017. Micronet has one operating segment and one operating unit related to its product offerings in the MRM market. Until 2017, step one of the assessment resulted in the carrying value of the MRM reporting unit exceeding its fair value. As described in the preceding paragraphs, the second step was performed by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. There were no impairments recorded until 2017. As of December 31, 2018, Micronet market capitalization was significantly lower than the net book value of the reporting unit. In establishing the appropriate market capitalization, the Micronet looked at the date that the annual impairment test is performed (December 31, 2018). In order to calculate its market capitalization, Micronet used the price per share of NIS 0.46. Following the results of the step one test, Micronet continued to the second step, which was performed by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. Micronet determined that the carrying value of goodwill should be impaired and therefore an impairment of $1.466 million was recorded. Revenue recognition . Sales of products consist of revenue from the sale of MRM products. The Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it expects to be entitled when control of the products or services is transferred to its customers. Control is generally transferred when the Company has a present right to payment and title and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of products are transferred to its customers. There is limited judgement needed in identifying the point control passes: once physical delivery of the products to the agreed location has occurred, the company no longer has physical possession, the company usually will have a present right to payment and retains none of the significant risks and rewards of the goods in question For most of the Companys products sales, control transfers when products are shipped. 33 Income taxes . Deferred taxes and liabilities are determined utilizing the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax asset and liability account balances are determined based on differences between financial reporting and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The Company provides a valuation allowance, when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are classified as current or non-current based on the expected reversal dates. The Company adopted ASC 740-10-05, Income Tax, which provides guidance for recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions, and prescribes a threshold condition that a tax position must meet for any of the benefits of the uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. It also provides accounting guidance on de-recognition, classification and disclosure of these uncertain tax positions. The Companys policy on classification of all interest and penalties related to unrecognized income tax positions, if any, is to present them as a component of income tax expense.