Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report and include, among other statements, statements regarding the following: demand for Micronet Ltd.s, or Micronet, products as well as the potential changes in the market place, future growth, either through internal efforts, development of new products, potential segments and markets or through acquisitions; levels of Micronets research and development costs in the future; the functionality and availability of Micronet SmartCam; the organic and non-organic growth of the Micronet MRM and video analytics device business divisions; plans for new Micronet products and services, including its entrance into the video analytics device market; Micronets ability to implement its streamlining of its production activity and its ability to raise additional capital; use of proceeds from any future financing by us or Micronet, if any; our and Micronets financing needs; the sufficiency of our and Micronets capital resources; the proposed transaction with Global Fintech Holding Ltd., a British Virgin Islands business company, or GFH or Global Fintech; and the gain/loss that will be recorded as a result of the value of MICTs interest in Micronet may change in the future and therefore our results in future periods may change significantly in accordance with the equity method. The factors discussed herein, including those risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors, and expressed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause actual results and developments to be materially different from those expressed in or implied by such statements. The forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this filing, and except as required by law we undertake no obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. ii PART I Item 1. Business. MICT was formed as a Delaware corporation on January 31, 2002. On March 14, 2013, the Company changed its corporate name from Lapis Technologies, Inc. to Micronet Enertec Technologies, Inc. On July 13, 2018, following the sale of its former subsidiary Enertec Systems Ltd., the Company changed its name from Micronet Enertec Technologies, Inc. to MICT, Inc. The Companys shares have been listed for trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or Nasdaq, since April 29, 2013. The Companys business relates to its ownership interest in Micronet, a former consolidated subsidiary, formed and based in Israel, in which the Company previously held a majority ownership interest that has since been diluted to a minority ownership interest. As of December 31, 2018, the Company held 49.89% of Micronets issued and outstanding shares, and together with an irrevocable proxy in our benefit from Mr. David Lucatz, the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company held 50.07% of the voting interest in Micronet as of such date. On February 24, 2019, Micronet closed a public equity offering on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the TASE. As a result of Micronets offering, our ownership interest in Micronet was diluted from 49.89% to 33.88%. On February 24, 2019, Mr. Lucatz, executed a new irrevocable proxy, or the Micronet Proxy, assigning his voting power over 1,980,000 shares of Micronet for our benefit. As a result, the Companys voting interest in Micronet stood at 39.53% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet as of such date. The decrease in the Companys voting interest in Micronet resulted in the deconsolidation of Micronets operating results from our financial statements as of February 24, 2019. Therefore, commencing from February 24, 2019, the Company has accounted for the investment in Micronet in accordance with the equity method. As a result of the deconsolidation, the Company recognized a net gain of approximately $299,000 in February 2019. On September 5, 2019, Micronet closed a public equity offering on the TASE. As a result, our ownership interest in Micronet was diluted from 33.88% to 30.48%, and our current voting interest in Micronet stands at 37.79% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet, Micronet operates in the growing commercial Mobile Resource Management, or MRM, market and video analytics device market. Micronet through both its Israeli and U.S. operational offices, designs, develops, manufactures and sells rugged mobile computing devices that provide fleet operators and field workforces with computing solutions in challenging work environments. Micronets vehicle portable tablets increase workforce productivity and enhance corporate efficiency by offering computing power and communication capabilities that provide fleet operators with visibility into vehicle location, fuel usage, speed and mileage. Furthermore, users are able to manage the drivers in various aspects, such as: driver behavior, driver identification, reporting hours worked, customer/organization working procedures and protocols, route management and navigation based on tasks and time schedule. End users may also receive real time messages for various services such as pickup and delivery, repair and maintenance, status reports, alerts, notices relating to the start and ending of work, digital forms, issuing and printing of invoices and payments. Through its SmartHub product, Micronet provides its consumers with services such as driver recognition, identifying and preventing driver fatigue, recognizing driver behavior, preventive maintenance, fuel efficiency and an advanced driver assistance system. In addition, Micronet provides third party telematics service providers, or TSPs, a platform to offer services such as Hours of Service. Micronet previously commenced and continues to evaluate integration with other TSPs. 1 Micronet is currently entering the video analytics device market by developing an all in-one video telematics device known as Micronet SmartCam. Micronet SmartCam technologically is based on the powerful flexible Android platform, is expected to be a ruggedized, integrated, and ready-to-go smart camera supporting complete telematics features designed for in-vehicle use. Coupled with vehicle-connected interfaces, state of the art diagnostic capabilities, and two cameras, it offers video analytics and telematics services, addressing safety, vehicle health, and tracking needs of commercial fleets. We believe that Micronet SmartCam provides a versatile, advanced, and affordable mobile computing platform for a variety of fleet management and video analytics solutions. The powerful computing platform, coupled with the Android 9 operating system, allows the company customers to run their applications or pick and choose a set of applications and services from Micronet marketplace. Micronets customers consist primarily of application service providers, or ASPs, and solution providers specializing in the MRM market. These companies sell Micronets products as part of their MRM systems and solutions. Currently, Micronet does not sell directly to end users. Micronet customers are generally MRM solution and service providers, ASP providers in the transportation market, including long haul, local fleets student transportation (yellow busses) and fleet and field management systems for construction and heavy equipment. Micronet products are used by customers worldwide. Micronet operates and conducts its business in the U.S. market through Micronet Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary located in Utah. The Micronet U.S.-based business, operations and facilities include a logistics warehouse and distribution center, and technical service and support infrastructure as well as sales and marketing capabilities which allow Micronet to continue expansion into the U.S. market while support its existing U.S.-based customers with further accessibility and presence to local fleets and local MRM service providers. Acquisition Agreement with BNN Technology PLC On December 18, 2018, we, GFH, GFH Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of GFH, or Merger Sub, BNN, Brookfield Interactive (Hong Kong) Limited, a Hong Kong company and a subsidiary of BNN, or BI China, ParagonEx LTD, a British Virgin Islands company, or ParagonEx, certain holders of ParagonExs outstanding ordinary shares and a trustee thereof, and Mark Gershinson, in the capacity as the representative of the ParagonEx sellers, entered into an Acquisition Agreement, or the Acquisition Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Acquisition Agreement, Merger Sub would merge with and into the Company, as a result of which each outstanding share of the Companys common stock and warrant to purchase the same would be cancelled in exchange for the right of the holders thereof to receive 0.93 substantially equivalent securities of GFH, after which GFH would acquire (i) all of the issued and outstanding securities of BI China in exchange for newly issued ordinary shares of GFH and (ii) all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of ParagonEx for a combination of cash in the amount equal to approximately $25 million (the majority of which was raised in a private placement by GFH), unsecured promissory notes and newly issued ordinary shares of GFH, or collectively, the Transactions. In furtherance of the Transactions, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions described in the Acquisition Agreement, BNN agreed to commence a tender offer, or the Offer, as promptly as practicable and no event later than 15 business days after the execution of the Acquisition Agreement, to purchase up to approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock at a price per share of $1.65, net to the sellers in cash, without interest, or the Offer Price. On March 13, 2019, the deadline for the Offer was extended to April 8, 2019. Additionally, following the Transactions, it was contemplated that the certain of our operating business assets, including our interest in Micronet, would be spun off to our stockholders who continue to retain shares of our common stock after the Offer. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, and assuming that none of the shares of our common stock are purchased by BNN in connection with the Offer, our stockholders would own approximately 5.27% of GFH after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. On May 31, 2019, we terminated the spin-off of Micronet and in June 2019, the Offer was terminated. Effective November 7, 2019, we, BNN, BI China and ParagonEx, or the Parties, entered into a mutual Termination Agreement, or the Termination Agreement, pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the Acquisition Agreement, effective immediately. 2 Merger Agreement with GFH On November 7, 2019, we and GFH Intermediate Holdings Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company, or Intermediate, a wholly owned subsidiary of GFH and MICT Merger Subsidiary Inc., a to-be-formed British Virgin Islands company and a wholly owned subsidiary of MICT, or Merger Sub, shall upon execution of a joinder, enter into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Intermediate, with Intermediate continuing as the surviving entity, and each outstanding share of Intermediates common stock shall be cancelled in exchange for the right of the holders thereof to receive a substantially equivalent security of MICT, or collectively, the Acquisition. GFH will receive an aggregate of 109,946,914 shares of MICT common stock as merger consideration in the Acquisition. Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Intermediate entered into (i) a share exchange agreement with Beijing Brookfield Interactive Science & Technology Co. Ltd., an enterprise formed under the laws of the Peoples Republic of China, or Beijing Brookfield), pursuant to which Intermediate will acquire all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares and other equity interest of Beijing Brookfield from the shareholders of Beijing Brookfield in exchange for 16,310,759 newly issued shares of GFH and (ii) a share exchange agreement with ParagonEx, shareholders of ParagoneEx specified therein, or the ParagonEx Sellers, and Mark Gershinson, pursuant to which, the ParagonEx Sellers will transfer to Intermediate all of the issued and outstanding securities of ParagonEx in exchange for Intermediates payment and delivery of $10.0 million in cash, which is to be paid upon the closing of the Acquisition, and 75,132,504 newly issued shares of GFH deliverable at the closing of the share exchange. After giving effect to the Acquisition, the conversion of the Convertible Debentures (as defined below) and the conversion or exercise of the securities issued by MICT pursuant to the Offering of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants and the Offering of Convertible Note and Warrants, each as defined and further discussed below, it is expected that MICT will have approximately $15.0 million of cash as well as ownership of ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield and that MICTs current stockholders will own approximately 11,089,532 shares, or 7.64%, of the 145,130,577 shares of MICTs issued and outstanding common stock. Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement is subject to certain closing conditions, including, among other things, approval by the stockholders of MICT and receipt of a fairness opinion indicating that the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are fair to the stockholders of MICT. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for the Company and Intermediate. The Merger Agreement also contains customary representations, warranties and covenants made by, among others, MICT, Intermediate and Merger Sub, including as to the conduct of their respective businesses (as applicable) between the date of signing the Merger Agreement and the closing of the transactions contemplated thereby. The Merger Agreement provides that all options to purchase shares of the Companys common stock that are outstanding and unexercised shall be accelerated in full effective as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Acquisition. The options shall survive the closing of the Acquisition for a period of 15 months from the date of the closing of the Acquisition and all equity incentive plans of the Company shall remain in effect. Consummation of the Merger Agreement is subject to various conditions, including the following mutual conditions of the parties unless waived: (i) the approval of the Merger Agreement by the requisite vote of MICTs stockholders; (ii) expiration of the applicable waiting period under any antitrust laws, including the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; (iii) receipt of requisite regulatory approval, (iv) receipt of required consents and provision of required notices to third parties, (v) no law or order preventing or prohibiting the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or the closing of the Merger Agreement; (vi) no restraining order or injunction preventing the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement; (vii) appointment or election of the members of the post-closing MICT board of directors as agreed, and (viii) the filing of the definitive proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. In addition, prior to the consummation of the Merger, if the Merger Agreement is terminated after the closing of the Beijing Brookfield Acquisition or the ParagonEx Acquisition, as the case may be, or if the Acquisition does not close by the outside date set forth in the Merger Agreement, the transactions contemplated by the Beijing Brookfield Share Exchange Agreement and the ParagonEx Share Exchange Agreement, may be unwound. In the event of an unwinding of such acquisitions, GFH will return the Beijing Brookfield shares to BI Interactive and the ParagonEx shares to the Paragon Ex Sellers and in turn BI Interactive and the ParagonEx Sellers will return the shares of Global Fintech received in the applicable share exchange. 3 Voting Agreement . In connection with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, D. L Capital, or DLC, an entity affiliated with David Lucatz, the President and Chief Executive Officer of MICT, entered into a voting agreement, by and among MICT, GFH and DLC, or the Voting Agreement, pursuant to which, during the term of such agreement, DLC has agreed to vote all of its capital shares in MICT in favor of the Merger Agreement, the related ancillary documents and any required amendments to MICTs organizational documents, and in favor of all of the transactions in furtherance thereof, and to take certain other actions in support of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and will, at every meeting of the stockholders of MICT called for such purpose, and at every adjournment or postponement thereof (or in any other circumstances upon which a vote, consent or approval is sought, including by written consent), not vote any of its shares of the common stock at such meeting in favor of, or consent to, and will vote against and not consent to, the approval of any alternative proposal that is intended, or would reasonably be expected, to prevent, impede, interfere with, delay or adversely affect in any material respect the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The Voting Agreement shall terminate, among other reasons, upon the earlier of the termination of the Merger Agreement and March 31, 2020. Offering of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants On June 4, 2019, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement, with the purchasers named therein, or the Preferred Purchasers, subject to approval by the Nasdaq Stock Market for as to the eligibility of the transaction, pursuant to which we agreed to sell 3,181,818 shares of newly designated Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with a stated value of $2.20 per share, or the Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock, which shall be convertible into up to 6,363,636 shares of our common stock, shall be sold together with certain common stock purchase warrants, or the Preferred Warrants, to purchase up to 4,772,727 shares of common stock (representing 75% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock into which the Preferred Stock shall be convertible), for aggregate gross proceeds of $7 million to us, or the Preferred Offering. The terms of the Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement were approved by Nasdaq Stock Market in July 2019 and as a result the company issued the preferred stock along with the warrants. The Preferred Stock shall be convertible into common stock at the option of each holder of Preferred Stock at any time and from time to time, at a conversion price of $1.10 per share and shall also convert automatically upon the occurrence of certain events, including the completion by us of a fundamental transaction. Commencing on March 31, 2020, cumulative cash dividends shall become payable on the Preferred Stock at the rate per share of 7% per annum, which rate shall increase to 14% per annum on June 30, 2020. We shall also have the option to redeem some or all of the Preferred Stock, at any time and from time to time, beginning on December 31, 2019. The holders of Preferred Stock shall vote together with the holders of common stock as a single class on as-converted basis, and the holders of Preferred Stock holding a majority-in-interest of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to appoint an independent director to our board of directors, or the Preferred Director. The Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement provides for customary registration rights. The Preferred Warrants shall have an exercise price of $1.01 (subject to customary adjustment in the event of future stock dividends, splits and the like), which is above the average price of the common stock during the preceding five trading days of entry into the Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement, and shall be exercisable immediately, until the earlier of (i) two years from the date of issuance or (ii) the later of (a) 180 days after the closing by the Company of a change of control transaction, or (b) the companys next debt or equity financing of at least $20 million. Offering of Convertible Note and Warrants On June 4, 2019, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Note Purchase Agreement, with BNN, subject to approval by the Nasdaq Stock Market for as to the eligibility of the transaction, pursuant to which BNN agreed to purchase from us $2 million of convertible notes, which subscription amount shall be subject to increase by up to an additional $1 million as determined by BNN and us, or collectively, the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes, which shall be convertible into up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock (using the applicable conversion ratio of $1.10 per share), shall be sold together with certain common stock purchase warrants, or the Note Warrants, to purchase up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock (representing 100% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible), or the Convertible Note Offering. The Convertible Notes shall have a duration of two years. The Convertible Notes shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the Note Purchaser at any time and from time to time, and upon the issuance of one or more Convertible Notes. Darren Mercer, the Chief Executive Officer of BNN, was appointed to the Companys board of directors, or the Note Director. The Note Purchase Agreement provides for customary registration rights. The terms of the note purchase agreement were approved by Nasdaq Stock Market in July 2019 and as a result the company issued the convertible notes along with the warrants. The Note Warrants shall have an exercise price of $1.01 (subject to customary adjustment in the event of future stock dividends, splits and the like), and shall be exercisable immediately upon receipt of stockholder approval of the Convertible Note Offering, until the earlier of (i) two years from the date of issuance or (ii) the later of (a) 180 days after the closing by the Company of a change of control transaction, or (b) the companys next debt or equity financing of at least $20 million. 4 On January 21, 2020, we entered into a Conversion Agreement with BNN, pursuant to which BNN agreed to convert the outstanding Convertible Notes, issued on July 31, 2019, as part of the initial closing of the Note Purchase Agreement, into 1,818,181 shares of the Companys newly-designated Series B Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share, with a stated value of $1.10 per share, or the Series B Preferred, or collectively, the Conversion. In accordance with the Conversion, the Company filed a Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series B Preferred with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 21, 2020 to designate the rights and preferences of up to 1,818,181 shares of Series B Preferred. Offering of Secured Convertible Debentures On November 7, 2019, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Primary Purchase Agreement, with certain investors identified therein, or the Primary Purchasers, pursuant to which, among other things, the Primary Purchasers agreed, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Primary Purchase Agreement, to purchase from us 5% senior secured convertible debentures due 2020, or the Primary Convertible Debentures, with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $15.9 million, or the Primary Convertible Debenture Offering. The proceeds of $15.9 million from the sale of the Primary Convertible Debentures were funded on January 21, 2020. Concurrently with entry into the Primary Purchase Agreement, we entered into a separate Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Non-Primary Purchase Agreement and, together with the Primary Purchase Agreement, the Purchase Agreements, with certain investors identified therein, or the Non-Primary Purchasers and, together with the Primary Purchasers, the Purchasers, pursuant to which, among other things, the Non-Primary Purchasers agreed, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Non-Primary Purchase Agreement, to purchase from us 5% senior secured convertible debentures due 2020, or the Non-Primary Convertible Debentures, and, together with the Primary Convertible Debentures, the Convertible Debentures, with an aggregate principal amount of $9.0 million (together with the Primary Convertible Debenture Offering, collectively, the Convertible Debenture Offering. The Convertible Debentures shall be convertible into our shares of common stock at a conversion price of $1.41 per share. The Convertible Debentures will be due upon the earlier of (i) six months from the date of issuance and (ii) the termination of the Merger Agreement. We are obligated to pay interest to the Purchasers on the outstanding principal amount at the rate of 5% per annum, payable quarterly, in cash or, at our option in certain instances, in shares of common stock. We may not voluntarily prepay any portion of the principal amount of the Convertible Debentures without the prior written consent of the Purchasers. Subject to stockholder approval of an increase in the shares of Common Stock to allow for the full conversion of the Convertible Debentures into common stock, the Convertible Debentures shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the Purchasers at any time and from time to time. Upon the closing of the Acquisition and written notice from us to the Purchasers, the Purchasers shall be forced to convert the Convertible Debentures into our shares of common stock, or the Forced Conversion. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others, if we fail to file a preliminary proxy statement with respect to the Acquisition on or prior to November 18, 2019, if the Forced Conversion does not occur on or before January 24, 2020, or certain breaches of the Primary Purchasers Registration Rights Agreement (as defined below), the Primary Purchasers are permitted to require us to redeem the Primary Convertible Debentures, including any interest that has accrued thereunder, for cash. The proceeds of each Convertible Debenture Offering were placed in separate blocked bank accounts, each of which is subject to a blocked deposit account control agreement that we entered into. We shall not have access to such proceeds until the closing of the Acquisition and only upon the satisfaction of certain other requirements, including, among other things, effectiveness of the Resale Registration Statement (as defined below). The Purchase Agreements provide for customary registration rights, pursuant to their respective registration rights agreement to be entered into at the time of the closing of the Convertible Debenture Offering (each, a Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreements, we are obligated to, among other things, (i) file a registration statement, or the Resale Registration Statement, with the SEC for purposes of registering the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Convertible Debentures and (ii) use its best efforts to cause the Resale Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as soon as practicable after filing, and in any event no later than the effectiveness of the Acquisition. The Registration Rights Agreements contains customary terms and conditions for a transaction of this type, including certain customary cash penalties on us for our failure to satisfy the specified filing and effectiveness time periods. 5 Micronet Micronet currently operates via its Israeli and U.S facilities, the first located in Herzliya, Israel, near Tel Aviv, and the latter located in Salt Lake City, Utah. Micronet operates in the MRM market as a global developer, manufacturer and provider of mobile computing platforms, designed for integration into fleet management and mobile workforce management solutions. In addition, Micronet has also begun to develop, manufacture and provide video analytics devices for use in the MRM market. This all in-one video telematics device, known as Micronet SmartCam, incorporates third party proprietary software technologically and is based on the powerful flexible android platform. The Smart Cam is to be a ruggedized, integrated, and ready-to-go smart camera supporting complete telematics features designed for in-vehicle use. Coupled with vehicle-connected interfaces, state of the art diagnostic capabilities, and two cameras, it offers video analytics and telematics services, addressing safety, vehicle health, and tracking needs of commercial fleets Micronets products and solutions include rugged mobile computing and video telematics devices (tablets, on-board-computers and dash cams) and are designed, developed and manufactured to provide fleet operators and field workforces with computing solutions design to face challenging work environments, such as extreme temperatures, repeated vibrations or dirty and wet or dusty conditions. Micronet conducts its sales and support activities mainly through its U.S.-based facilities. Micronets customers include leading international MRM solution and service providers as well as certain Value Added Resellers, or VARs. Micronet maintains an in-house research and development staff and operates an ISO 9001-2008 certified manufacturing facilities. Micronets products are targeted for the use in a wide range of MRM industry sectors, which mainly includes: haulage and distribution, which includes short- and long- haul trucking and distribution servicing of urban retail and wholesale needs, such as delivery of packages, parts and similar items; public transportation, which refers mainly to buses, para-transit, taxis and limousine services; construction, which refers to vehicle fleets that are involved in the construction industry such as cement trucks and heavy equipment; and public safety services, which includes fire departments, ambulances, police and forestry. Micronets products are fully programmable based on the android software platform and provide customers with the operational flexibility to customize such products for their ongoing needs via a comprehensive development tool kit package that enables them to make certain developments independently and support their own industry-specific applications and solutions. Micronets key initiatives for future revenue growth include the following: expanding sales activities in the North American and European markets, which will include establishing strong relationships with new customers and partners; offering a brand new video telematics based solutions integrating among other third partys software proprietary solutions such as Micronet SmartCam, which addresses the video analytics segment, a high-growing segment in the telematics market; addressing the local fleet vertical of the MRM market with tablets that are specifically designed to support sales to local fleets through multiple value added resellers by offering advanced features at competitive prices; supporting Android OS, to satisfy a wider customer base, enabling independent application programming and integration with various mission critical automotive system and enterprise-level software solutions; 6 upgrading and enhancing current products and engaging in new product development and launching based on input from clients and partners; and partnering with major truck manufacturers to develop a built-in, telematics platform. We do not currently have any ongoing business operations relating to the sale, manufacturing, commercialization or research and development of any products and services and do not have any consolidated subsidiaries with such ongoing business operations. As discussed above in this Item 1, as of February 24, 2019, we have deconsolidated Micronets operating results from our financial statements. Employees As of December 31, 2019, the Company had approximately 6 full-time employees (and as of February 18, 2020, the Company had approximately 6 full-time employees) and Micronet had approximately 38 full-time employees (as of February 18, 2020, Micronet had approximately 37 full-time employees). Of these employees, 10 were employed in manufacturing positions, and the remainder were employed in sales, research and development, management and administrative positions. Our and Micronets employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement, and both we and Micronet have never experienced a work stoppage. Both we and Micronet, to the best of our knowledge, have good and sustainable relations with our and its employees, respectively. Israeli labor laws and regulations apply to all employees based in Israel. The laws principally address matters such as paid vacation, paid sick days, length of the workday, payment for overtime and severance payments upon the retirement or death of an employee or termination of employment under specified circumstances. The severance payments may be funded, in whole or in part, through a managers insurance fund or a pension fund. The payments to the managers insurance fund or pension fund toward severance amount to 8.3% of wages. Furthermore, Israeli employees and employers are required to pay predetermined sums to the National Insurance Institute of Israel. Since January 1, 1995, these amounts also include payments for health insurance. Available Information Additional information about us is contained on our Internet website at www.mict-inc.com . Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Under the IR section of our website, we make available free of charge our Proxy Statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC are also made available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this Annual Report and our other SEC filings before making a decision to invest in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial conditions and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock and warrants may decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to MICTs Business and Industry If the conditions to the Acquisition are not met, the Acquisition may not occur. In addition to approval by the stockholders of MICT, specified conditions must be satisfied or waived to complete the Acquisition. These conditions, described in detail in the Merger Agreement, include, in addition to shareholder consent and among other requirements: (i) the expiration or termination of any waiting period, and extension thereof, applicable under any antitrust laws, (ii) receipt or filing of any and all required consents from all applicable government authorities or third person, (iii) no law or order preventing the transactions by any applicable governmental authority shall have been issued, enforced or in effect, (iv) no pending litigation to enjoin or restrict the closing, as defined in the Merger Agreement, by any non-affiliated third-party, (v) the definitive proxy statement shall have been filed with the SEC, (vi) each partys representations and warranties are true and correct as of the date of the Merger Agreement and as of the closing of the Merger Agreement, (vii) each partys compliance in all material respects with its covenants and agreements to be complied with or performed on or prior to the closing date of the Acquisition, (viii) no material adverse effect with respect to a party since the date of the Merger Agreement which remains continuing and uncured, (ix) the effectiveness of the ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield Share Exchange Agreements, (x) the appointment of the post-closing board of directors of MICT, (xi) the delivery by each applicable party of each of the required closing deliveries, (x) the voting agreement and lock-up agreements being in full force and effect, and (xi) the lack of indebtedness of MICT other than $3,350,000. MICT, ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield cannot assure you that all of the conditions will be satisfied. If the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Acquisition may not occur, or may be delayed. Such delays may cause MICT, ParagonEx and/or Beijing Brookfield to each lose some or all of the intended benefits of the Acquisition. The Acquisition may not be consummated or may not deliver the anticipated benefits MICT expects. MICT is devoting substantially all of its time and resources to consummating the Acquisition; however, there can be no assurance that such activities will result in the consummation of the Acquisition and the transactions contemplated thereby or that such transaction will deliver the anticipated benefits or enhance stockholder value. MICT cannot assure you that it will complete the Acquisition in a timely manner or at all. The Merger Agreement is subject to many closing conditions and termination rights. If the Acquisition does not occur, the MICT board of directors may elect to attempt to complete an alternative strategic transaction similar to the Acquisition. Attempting to complete an alternative strategic transaction will be costly and time-consuming, and MICT cannot make any assurances that a future strategic transaction will occur on terms that provide the same or greater opportunity for potential value to MICTs stockholders, or at all. If MICT is unable to close another strategic transaction, the MICT board of directors may determine to sell or otherwise dispose of MICTs shares of Micronet, and distribute any remaining cash proceeds to MICTs stockholders. In that event, MICT would be required to pay all of its debts and contractual obligations, and to set aside certain reserves for potential future claims, so MICT would not be able to provide any assurances as to the amount or timing of available cash or assets available for distribution remaining to distribute to stockholders after paying its obligations and setting aside funds for reserves. If MICT does not successfully consummate the Acquisition, or any other alternative transaction, if any, the MICT board of directors may decide to pursue a dissolution and liquidation of MICT. In such an event, the amount of cash available for distribution to MICTs stockholders will depend heavily on the timing of such liquidation as well as the amount of cash that will need to be reserved for commitments and contingent liabilities. There can be no assurance that MICT can successfully consummate the Acquisition, or any other alternative transaction. If the Acquisition, or other alternative transaction, is not completed, the MICT board of directors may decide to pursue a dissolution and liquidation of MICT. In such an event, the amount of cash available for distribution to MICTs stockholders will depend heavily on the timing of such decision and, ultimately, such liquidation, because the amount of cash available for distribution continues to decrease as MICT funds its operations. If the MICT board of directors were to approve and recommend, and MICTs stockholders were to approve, a dissolution and liquidation of MICT, MICT would be required under Delaware corporate law to pay MICTs outstanding obligations, as well as to make reasonable provision for contingent and unknown obligations, prior to making any distributions in liquidation to MICTs stockholders. As a result of this requirement, a portion of MICTs assets may need to be reserved pending the resolution of such obligations. In addition, MICT may be subject to litigation or other claims related to a dissolution and liquidation of MICT. If a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, the MICT board of directors, in consultation with its advisors, would need to evaluate these matters and make a determination about a reasonable amount to reserve. Accordingly, holders of MICT common stock could lose all or a significant portion of their investment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of MICT. 8 MICT is substantially dependent on its remaining employees to facilitate the consummation of the Acquisition. MICTs ability to successfully complete the Acquisition, or if the Acquisition is not completed, another potential strategic transaction, depends in large part on its ability to retain certain of its remaining personnel, particularly David Lucatz, MICTs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Micronets President. Despite MICTs efforts to retain Mr. Lucatz and other key employees, one or more may terminate their employment on short notice. The loss of the services of any of these employees, and more specifically, Mr. Lucatz, could potentially harm MICTs ability to complete the Acquisition, evaluate and pursue strategic alternatives, as well as fulfill its reporting obligations as a public company. MICT is dependent on the services of its executive officers, whose potential conflicts of interest may not permit MICT to effectively execute its business strategy. MICT is currently dependent on the continued services and performance of its executive officers, particularly David Lucatz, MICTs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Micronets Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Lucatz also serves as the President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DLC, the primary asset of which is its ownership of shares of MICT common stock. In addition, certain members of MICTs board of directors, particularly, Darren Mercer, the Chief Executive Officer of BNN, could have a potential conflict in carrying out his duties as a member of our board of directors. If Micronet is unable to develop new products and maintain a qualified workforce it may not be able to meet the needs of customers in the future. Virtually all of the products produced and sold by Micronet are highly engineered and require employees with sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The markets and industry in which Micronet operates are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The products, systems, solutions and needs of Micronet customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, the future performance of Micronet depends on its ability to develop and manufacture competitive products and solutions, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of Micronets business, the hiring and retention of skilled and qualified personnel is necessary to perform the services required by customers. If Micronet is unable to develop new products that meet customers changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, its future revenues and earnings may be adversely affected, and therefore the value of MICTs equity interest in Micronet may be adversely affected. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may cause Micronet to incur significant costs and could have a material adverse effect on its operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows, and as a result thereof, adversely affect the value of our equity interest in Micronet. A significant portion of Micronets business relates to developing sophisticated products and applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, Micronet may incur significant liabilities that are unique to its products and services. While Micronet maintains insurance for some business risks, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies currently in place, or as may be added from time to time, will be sufficient to cover all risks or liabilities that may be incurred. Accordingly, Micronet may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of its products and products under development, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results, financial condition and/or cash flows, and therefore the value of MICTs equity interest in Micronet may be adversely affected. If Micronet is unable to effectively protect proprietary technology, its business and competitive position may be harmed, which would have an adverse effect on MICTs business and financial position. Micronets success and ability to compete is dependent on its proprietary technology. The steps Micronet has taken to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate and Micronet may not be able to prevent others from using its proprietary technology. The methodologies and proprietary technology that constitute the basis of Micronets solutions and products are not protected by patents. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and non-disclosure agreements to which Micronet is a party offer only limited protection. Therefore, others, including Micronets competitors, may develop and market similar solutions and products, copy or reverse engineer elements of Micronets production lines, or engage in the unauthorized use of Micronets intellectual property. Any misappropriation of Micronets proprietary technology or the development of competitive technology may have a significant adverse effect on Micronets ability to compete and may harm the value of our equity interest in Micronet. 9 Substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights may be incurred, which would have an adverse effect on the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Third parties may challenge the validity of Micronets intellectual property rights or bring claims regarding Micronets infringement of a third partys intellectual property rights. This may result in costly litigation or other time-consuming and expensive judicial or administrative proceedings, which could deprive Micronet of valuable rights, cause them to incur substantial expenses and cause a diversion for technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject Micronet to significant liabilities or require it to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Further, if such claims are proven valid, through litigation or otherwise, Micronet may be required to pay substantial financial damages or be required to discontinue or significantly delay the development, marketing, sale or licensing of the affected products and intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Micronets earnings and margins may be negatively impacted if Micronet is unable to perform under its contracts. When agreeing to contractual terms, Micronets management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions or events. These projections assess, among other factors: the productivity and availability of labor; the complexity of the work to be performed; the cost and availability of materials; the impact of delayed performance; and the timing of product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if faced with unexpected contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected and could affect, among other things, Micronets earnings and margins, and in turn the value of our equity interest in Micronet, due to the fact that Micronets contracts are often made on a fixed-price basis. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Micronets earnings and margins could be negatively affected by deficient subcontractor performance or the unavailability of raw materials or components. Micronet relies on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for its products. Subcontractors perform some of the services that Micronet provides to its customers. Micronet depends on these subcontractors and vendors to meet contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Occasionally, Micronet relies on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on Micronets ability to meet commitments to customers. Micronets ability to perform its obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, deficiencies in the performance of subcontractors and vendors could result in a customer terminating a contract for default. A termination for default could expose Micronet to liability and adversely affect financial performance and Micronets ability to win new contract, and in turn, adversely affect the value of our equity interest in Micronet. 10 Micronet is dependent on major customers for a significant portion of revenues, and therefore, future revenues and earnings could be negatively impacted by the loss or reduction of the demand for Micronets products or services by such customers. A significant portion of Micronets MRM annual revenues is derived from a few leading customers. As of December 31, 2019, Micronets had three largest customers combined accounted for approximately 74.48% of its revenues. Most of Micronets major customers do not have any obligation to purchase additional products or services from it. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any of Micronets leading customers will continue to purchase solutions, products or services at levels comparable to previous years. A substantial loss or reduction in Micronets existing programs could adversely affect its future revenues and earnings and in turn the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Micronet operates in a highly competitive and fragmented market and may not be able to maintain a competitive position in the future. Any such failure to successfully compete could have a material adverse effect on the value of our equity interest in Micronet. A number of larger competitors have recently entered the MRM market in which Micronet operates. These large companies have far greater development and capital resources than Micronet. Further, there are competitors of Micronet that offer solutions, products and services similar to those offered by Micronet. If they continue, these trends could undermine Micronets competitive strength and position and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Micronet may cease to be eligible for, or receive reduced, tax benefits under Israeli law, which could negatively impact profits in the future. Micronet currently receives certain tax benefits under the Israeli Law Encouragement of Capital Investments of 1959, as a result of the designation of its production facility as an Approved Enterprise. To maintain its eligibility for these tax benefits, Micronet must continue to meet several conditions including, among others, generating more than 25% of its gross revenues outside the State of Israel and continuing to qualify as an Industrial Company under Israeli tax law. An Industrial Company, according to the applicable Israeli law (Law for the Encouragement of Industry (Taxes), 1969), is a company that resides in Israel (either incorporated in Israel or managed and controlled from Israel) that, during the relevant tax year, derives at least 90% of its income from an Industrial Factory. An Industrial Factory means a factory that is owned by an Industrial Company and where its manufacturing operations constitute a vast majority of the factorys total operations/business. The tax benefits of qualifying as an Industrial Company include a reduction of the corporate tax from 24% for Regular Entities and 16% or 7.5% for Preferred Enterprises (depending on the location of industry) in 2019. In addition, in recent years the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under this program and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate benefits in the future. There is no assurance that Micronet will continue to qualify for these tax benefits or that such tax benefits will continue to be available. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase the amount of tax payable by Micronet and, accordingly, reduce its net profit after tax and negatively impact profits, if any, which may adversely affect the value of our equity interest in Micronet. 11 Because almost all of MICTs officers and directors are located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, you may have no effective recourse against management for misconduct. Currently, a majority of MICTs directors and officers are or will be nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against such officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities law in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to hear the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Cost fluctuations in the global hardware and communications market and reducing production costs may have a negative impact on Micronets business and operations, and as a result thereof. Micronets operations are affected by global hardware prices and communication costs, which are a combined component of the technological solution offered by Micronet to its customers or end users. Also, in order to continue to compete effectively in the target markets, Micronet must continue to streamline its production costs and reduce them in order to enable a competitive price for its products. Micronet must compete among other manufacturers of components and / or products from East Asia including China and India. Micronets ability to streamline the production process depends, among other things, on its ability to integrate production processes in these areas, as well as to continue to locate target markets and target customers who are interested in purchasing high-end products that are less sensitive to cost. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on Micronets business and operations, and as a result thereof, adversely affect the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Economic changes in Micronets target markets may adversely impact its business, and as a result thereof, adversely affect the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Due to the fact that Micronets target markets are mainly located in North America and Europe, the lack of economic stability in such markets, such as slowdown or changes to the demands for products or services offered by Micronet, may adversely affect its operations and results, and as a result thereof, adversely affect the value of our equity interest in Micronet. Micronets financial results may be negatively affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Micronets revenues are mainly denominated in U.S. Dollars and costs are mainly denominated in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). Where possible, MICT matches sales and purchases in these and other currencies to achieve a natural hedge. Currently, Micronet does not have a policy with respect to the use of derivative instruments for hedging purposes, except that Micronet will consider engaging in such hedging activities on a case by case basis. To the extent MICT is unable to fully match sales and purchases in different currencies, its business will be exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cybersecurity disruptions may impact MICTs business operations or our efforts to complete the Merger if it becomes a target for such activities. MICT and/or Micronet may be subject to attempted cybersecurity disruptions from a variety of threat actors. If systems for protecting against cybersecurity disruptions prove to be insufficient, MICT and Micronet, and their customers, employees or third parties could be adversely affected. Such cybersecurity disruptions could cause physical harm to people or the environment; damage or destroy assets; compromise business systems; result in proprietary information being altered, lost or stolen; result in employee, customer or third party information being compromised; or otherwise disrupt business operations. Significant costs to remedy the effects of such a cybersecurity disruption may be incurred by MICT and Micronet, as well as in connection with resulting regulatory actions and litigation, and such disruption may harm relationships with customers and impact MICTs and Micronets business reputation. 12 Micronet is subject to regulations in the United States and Europe, which if failed to be met, could negatively impact Micronets and our business and reputation. Micronets business is subject to certain international standards such as U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, Part 15B, FCC ID, CE and Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, which define compatibility of interface and telecommunications standards to those implemented in the United States by the FCC and in Europe by the European Commission, respectively. Micronets solutions and products also need to comply with the E-Mark European standard, which is the standard that defines the compatibility of interface and telecommunications to all appliances installed in and around an automobile. Micronet is exposed to risks from regulators, arising from Micronets failure to comply with the aforementioned international standards, which define interface and communication standards, compliance with the standards of the European Common Market, European Conformity, or the CE, and the requirements of the U.S. Communications Regulatory Commission, the FCC, inclusive of the ELD mandate. If Micronet does not adhere to these international standards, Micronet may be limited in marketing its products in such markets, and face fines and/or risks to both our and Micronets reputation, and which may also adversely affect our and Micronets future revenues and earnings and the value of our of our equity interest in Micronet. Risks Related to Ownership of MICT Securities Your ability to influence corporate decisions may be limited because ownership of MICT common stock is concentrated. As of the date, Mr. Lucatz, the MICT Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owned 1,234,200 shares, or approximately 6.4% of MICTs outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Lucatz, may exercise significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of MICT, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of its common stock. Provisions in MICTs certificate of incorporation and of Delaware corporate law could make an acquisition of MICT, which may be beneficial to its stockholders, more difficult and may also prevent attempts by MICT stockholders to replace or remove current or future members of MICTs management team. Provisions in MICTs certificate of incorporation, as amended, and MICTs amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for MICT common stock. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for MICT securities, thereby depressing the market price of MICTs securities. In addition, these provisions may frustrate, deter or prevent any attempts by MICT stockholders to replace or remove current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of the MICT board of directors. Because the board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of the MICT management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by stockholders to replace current members of the MICT management team. Moreover, because MICT is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with MICT for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. MICT has not opted out of the restrictions under Section 203. MICT stockholders may experience significant dilution as a result of any additional financing that results in the issuance of MICT equity securities and/or debt securities. To the extent that additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, including through convertible debt securities, MICT stockholders may experience significant dilution. Sales of additional equity and/or convertible debt securities at prices below certain levels will trigger anti-dilution provisions with respect to certain securities which have been previously issued. If additional funds are raised through a credit facility, or the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, lenders or holders of these debt securities or preferred stock would likely have rights that are senior to the rights of holders of common stock, and any credit facility or additional securities could contain covenants that would restrict operations. 13 The price of MICTs common stock on Nasdaq has been in the past, and may in the future continue to be volatile, and may continue to be volatile even if we complete the Acquisition . Volatility in the trading price of MICTs common stock could cause purchasers of MICTs common stock to incur substantial losses. The price of MICTs common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of MICTs common stock may be influenced by many factors, including but not limited to the following: developments regarding the Acquisition and the transactions contemplated thereby; announcements of developments related to MICTs business; quarterly fluctuations in actual or anticipated operating results; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements introduced by Micronet or its competitors; developments in patents and other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with third party manufacturers and/or strategic partners; developments in relationships with customers and/or suppliers; regulatory or legal developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; general conditions in the global economy; and the other factors described in this Risk Factors section. For these reasons and others, you should consider an investment in MICT common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the value of such investment. A sale by MICT of a substantial number of shares of the common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for the common stock may cause the price of the common stock to decline and may impair the ability to raise capital in the future . MICTs common stock is traded on Nasdaq and despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, there have been periods when it could be considered thinly-traded, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing MICT common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may have been relatively small or non-existent. Financing transactions resulting in a large amount of newly-issued securities, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of MICT common stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell those shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of MICT stock. If MICT stockholders sell, or the market perceives that its stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restriction on resale, substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, the market price of MICT common stock could fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of MICT common stock may make it more difficult for MICT to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that MICT deems reasonable or appropriate. Moreover, MICT may become involved in securities class action litigation arising out of volatility resulting from such sales that could divert managements attention and harm MICTs business. 14 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about MICTs business, the price of its common stock could decline. MICT does not currently have any significant research coverage by securities and industry analysts and may never obtain such research coverage. If securities or industry analysts do not commence or maintain coverage of MICT, the trading price for its common stock might be negatively affected. In the event such securities or industry analyst coverage is obtained, if one or more of the analysts who covers MICT or will cover MICT downgrades its securities, the price of MICT common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover MICT or fails to publish regular reports on it, interest in the purchase of MICT common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of MICT common stock and trading volume to decline. If MICT continues to fail to meet all applicable Nasdaq requirements, Nasdaq may delist its common stock, which could have an adverse impact on its liquidity and market price. MICTs common stock is currently listed on Nasdaq, which has qualitative and quantitative listing criteria. If MICT continues to be unable to comply with Nasdaq listing requirements, including, for example, if the closing bid price for MICT common stock continues to fall below $1.00 per share, in breach of Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), Nasdaq could determine to delist the MICT common stock which could adversely affect its market liquidity market price. In that regard, on September 1, 2017, and again on July 22, 2019, MICT received written notice from Nasdaq indicating that it was not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), as the closing bid price of its common stock had been below $1.00 per share for each of the consecutive 30 business days preceding both September 1, 2017 and July 22, 2019. On both occasions, MICT was able to regain compliance by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days; however there can be no assurance that MICT will be able to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq listing requirements, or that the common stock will not be delisted from Nasdaq in the future. Such delisting could adversely affect the ability to obtain financing for the continuation of MICTs operations or prevent us from completing the Acquisition or any other alternative transaction, and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers and employees and cause our shareholders to incur substantial losses. If Nasdaq delists MICTs securities from trading on its exchange and MICT is not able to list its securities on another national securities exchange, MICT expects its securities could be quoted on an over-the-counter market. If this were to occur, MICT could face significant material adverse consequences, including: a limited availability of market quotations for its securities; reduced liquidity for its securities; a determination that the MICTs common stock is a penny stock which will require brokers trading in the MICTs common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for MICTs securities; a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2018 or 2019 and do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have no dividends policy and will consider distributing dividends on a year by year basis. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future, rests within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, our capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. There are no restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, or amended and restated bylaws that restrict us from declaring dividends. There are no assurances that we will pay dividends in the future. Risks Related to Israeli Law and Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel could adversely affect our operations. Our principal offices and one of Micronets operating facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our and Micronets operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been an increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinian Arabs, which has adversely affected the peace process and has negatively influenced Israels relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries, including the Israel-Gaza conflict. Such ongoing hostilities may hinder Israels international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where Micronet can sell its products and solutions. Hostilities involving or threatening Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could materially and adversely affect Micronets or our operations. 15 In addition, Israel-based companies and companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by members of the Arab League and certain other predominantly Muslim countries since Israels establishment. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, we cannot predict whether or in what manner these problems will be resolved. Wars and acts of terrorism have resulted in significant damage to the Israeli economy, including reducing the level of foreign and local investment. Furthermore, certain of our officers and employees may be obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called up for active military duty at any time. All Israeli male citizens who have served in the army are subject to an obligation to perform reserve duty until they are between 40 and 49 years old, depending upon the nature of their military service. Under current Israeli law, the Company and Micronet may not be able to enforce our respective Israeli employees covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our respective former employees. Previously, the Company and Micronet entered, and the Company and Micronet may plan in the future to enter into, non-competition agreements with our key employees, in most cases within the framework of their employment agreements. These agreements prohibit our key employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under applicable Israeli law, the Company and Micronet may be unable to enforce these agreements or any part thereof against our Israeli employees. If the Company and Micronet cannot enforce its non- competition agreements against their respective Israeli employees, then the Company and Micronet may be unable to prevent their competitors from benefiting from the expertise of these former employees, which could impair the Companys business, results of operations and ability to capitalize on Micronets proprietary information. Micronet may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and harm our business. A significant portion of the intellectual property covered by Micronets products has been developed by Micronets employees in the course of their employment for Micronet. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, and recent decisions by the Israeli Supreme Court and the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, Israeli employees may be entitled to remuneration for intellectual property that they develop for us unless they explicitly waive any such rights. To the extent that Micronet is unable to enter into agreements with its future employees pursuant to which they agree that any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement are owned exclusively by Micronet (as it has done in the past), Micronet may face claims demanding remuneration. As a consequence of such claims, Micronet could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to its current and former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect its own and our business. The Israeli identity of certain of Micronets products may adversely affect its ability to sell its products and/or solutions. The sale of Micronets products is affected in certain countries and may be affected in other countries by the international status of the State of Israel. Israeli identity may be used in some cases for promoting sales (in light of the recognition of the technological advantages that exist in Israel) whereas in other cases and is likely to continue to be a disadvantage and result in the cancellation of transactions. 16 Provisions of Israeli law and Micronets amended and restated articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to Micronet and its shareholders. As a company incorporated under the law of the State of Israel, Micronet is subject to Israeli corporate law. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date on which a merger proposal is filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date on which the shareholders of both merging companies have approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a tender offer for all of a companys issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of and a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer approves the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the companys outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, claim that the consideration for the acquisition of the shares does not reflect their fair market value, and petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless accordingly, other than those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer in case the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights., and the acquirer or the company published all required information with respect to the tender offer prior to the tender offers response date. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to Micronet or to its shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. Micronets amended and restated articles of association also contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in its management without the consent of its board of directors. These provisions include the following: no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect director candidates; and the right of Micronets board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which may prevent shareholders from being able to fill vacancies on its board of directors. Micronets operations may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel to perform military service. Micronets employees and consultants in Israel, including members of its senior management, may be obligated to perform one month, and in some cases longer periods, of military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for citizens who hold certain positions in the Israeli armed forces reserves) and, in the event of a military conflict or emergency circumstances, may be called to immediate and unlimited active duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be similar large-scale military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Micronets operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our officers, directors, employees and consultants related to military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect Micronets business and operations. 17 Risks Related to the Acquisition and the Business of the Post-Acquisition Entity The combined entity may be unable to successfully execute its growth strategy. One of the combined entitys strategies is to pursue organic growth by increasing product offerings, expanding into new verticals and new markets such as China. The combined entity also intends to continue to expand and upgrade the reliability and scalability of the PaaS offering and other aspects of its proprietary technology. The combined entity may not be able to successfully execute all or any of these initiatives, and the results may vary from the expectations of the combined entity or others. Further, even if these initiatives are successful, the combined entity may not be able to expand and upgrade its technology systems and infrastructure to accommodate increases in the business activity in a timely manner, which could lead to operational breakdowns and delays, loss of customers, a reduction in the growth of its customer base, increased operating expenses, financial losses, increased litigation or customer claims, regulatory sanctions or increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, the combined entity will need to continue to attract, hire and retain highly skilled and motivated executives and employees to both execute the growth strategy and to manage the resulting growth effectively. The combined entity may be unable to integrate the businesses of ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield successfully. ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield are independent companies that have never operated as a combined entity before. Until now, each of ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield has pursued its own separate businesses in different geographic locations. Upon consummation of the Acquisition, the combined entity will need to integrate the operations of these two companies that currently operate in different industries and geographic locations into a single operation. Although we believe the business of ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield are complementary and there will be synergies from the integration of the two companies, we cannot assure you that the Acquisition will produce the expected or intended results. The failure to address problems encountered in connection with such integration could cause the combined entity to fail to realize the anticipated benefits or incur unanticipated liabilities, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the combined entity, which could negatively impact its stock price. The combined entitys acquisition strategy may result in significant transaction expenses, integration and consolidation risks and risks associated with entering new markets, and the combined entity may not operate profitably. One of the combined entitys strategies is to pursue growth through acquisitions of smaller players in the industry. Such acquisitions involve significant transaction expenses, including, but not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial, tax and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Acquisitions also present risks associated with offering new products or entering new markets and integrating the acquired companies. 18 Other areas where the combined entity may face risks include: diversion of management time and focus from operating the business of the combined entity to address challenges that may arise in integrating the acquired business; transition of operations, users and user accounts onto existing platforms or onto platforms of the acquired company; failure to successfully further develop the acquired business; failure to realize anticipated operational or financial synergies; implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company; the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, such as violations of laws and regulatory requirements, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, infringement of third-party rights in intellectual property and other known and unknown liabilities; and integration of the acquired business accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, and coordination of trading and sales and marketing functions. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of the equity securities of the combined entity, the incurrence of debt, amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill and purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm the financial condition or results of operations and cash flows of the combined entity. Additionally, any new businesses that may be acquired by the combined entity, once integrated with the existing operations, may not produce expected or intended results. The failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with future acquisitions could cause the combined entity to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or incur unanticipated liabilities, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the combined entity. None of GFH, Beijing Brookfield or ParagonEx have any formal risk management policies or procedures and those applied by them may not be effective and may leave them exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks. GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx are dependent on the professional expertise and experience of their management and staff to assess risks. GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx do not have any formal written policies or procedures for identifying, monitoring or controlling risks, including risks related to human error, customer defaults, market movements, technology, fraud or money-laundering, and such risks are evaluated by their respective management teams and boards of directors on an ad-hoc basis. Such practices and methods used by GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx for managing risk are discretionary by nature and are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on standard industry practices. These methods may not adequately prevent losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than historical fluctuations in the market. The risk-management methods utilized by GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if their testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing failures. In addition, GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx may elect to adjust their risk-management policies to allow for an increase in risk tolerance, which could expose it to the risk of greater losses. The risk-management methods used by GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. These methods may not protect GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx against all risks or may protect them less than anticipated, in which case the business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx may be materially adversely affected. 19 MICT shareholders may be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of Beijing Brookfields and ParagonExs operations and the business of these companies are outside of MICT managements area of expertise. To the extent we complete the Acquisition, we will be affected by numerous risks inherent in both Beijing Brookfields and ParagonExs business operations. Furthermore, after completion of the Acquisition, the business of GFH will be entirely different from MICTs business. Although MICTs management has endeavored to evaluate the risks inherent in the proposed Merger, MICT cannot assure you that it can adequately ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Subsequent to the completion of the Acquisition, MICT may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on its financial condition and its share price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. MICT cannot assure you that the due diligence MICT has conducted on GFH, and its subsidiaries Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx has revealed all material issues that may be present with regard to such companies, or that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence or that risks outside of MICTs control will not later arise. Each of GFH, Beijing Brookfield and ParagonEx are privately held companies and MICT therefore has made its decision to pursue the Acquisition on the basis of limited information, which may result in a business combination that is not as profitable as expected, if at all. As a result of these factors, MICT may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in reporting losses. Even if MICTs due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with MICTs preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and would not have an immediate impact on MICTs liquidity, the fact that MICT reports charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about MICT or MICTs securities. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact that the Acquisition will have on GFHs securities. Furthermore, the Acquisition Agreement by which MICT will be acquiring GFH stipulates that all representations and warranties provided by GFH with regard to its businesses, will expire upon completion of the acquisition. Consequently, MICT will be limited in its ability to pursue a claim against GFH for breach of any of its representations and warranties that are discovered after the completion date, unless MICT is able to prove that such breach amounted to fraudulent misrepresentation or resulted from a similar act of malicious intent. MICTs ability to be successful following the Acquisition will be dependent upon the efforts of the MICT Board and key personnel and the loss of such persons could negatively impact the operations and profitability of MICTs post-combination business. MICTs ability to be successful following the Acquisition will be dependent upon the efforts of the MICT Board and key personnel. Furthermore, the business of MICT following the Acquisition will be made up mostly of GFHs business, and will be entirely different from MICTs current business. It is only contemplated that two of MICTs existing directors will serve on the MICT board of directors for a limited period of time, and MICT cannot assure you that MICTs board of directors and key personnel will be effective or successful or remain with MICT. In addition to the other challenges they will face, the new members of MICTs board of directors, other than the MICT continuing directors, may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause MICTs management to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. It is estimated that, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, MICTs current public stockholders will only own a minimal interest of MICT. Accordingly, the future performance of MICT will depend upon the quality of the post-Merger board of directors, management and key personnel of MICT and the MICTs ability to retain such managers and key personnel over time. Failure to complete the Acquisition could harm the price of MICTs common stock and the future business and operations of each company. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and the board of directors of the respective parties determine to seek another business combination, there can be no assurance that either MICT or GFH will be able to find a partner willing to provide equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration to be provided in connection with the Acquisition. 20 Some of MICTs officers and directors have interests in the Acquisition that are different from yours and that may influence them to support or approve the Merger without regard to your interests. Certain officers and directors of MICT, like those of other companies, participate in compensation arrangements that provide them with interests in the Acquisition that are different from yours, including, among others, the continued service as an officer or director of the combined organization for some limited period of time, severance benefits and the potential ability to sell an increased number of shares of common stock of the combined organization in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. For example, such officers and directors may receive compensation for their services generally, as well as in connection with the Acquisition, and subject to and upon the consummation of the Acquisition, MICT will issue to our former director, Miki Balin, and two of our current directors, Chezy (Yehezkel) Ofir and Jeffrey P. Bialos, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David Lucatz, 300,000 options to purchase MICT common stock (1,200,000 options in the aggregate) with an exercise price equal to $1.41, which shall be granted as success bonuses under MICTs existing stock incentive plans or under GFHs 2019 equity plan (including the 2019 Israeli sub-plan) and which shall be, converted into certain replacement stock options of MICT. The securityholders of MICT will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in, and will exercise less influence over the management of, the combined organization following the completion of the Acquisitions as compared to their current ownership and voting interests in MICT. After the completion of the Acquisition, the current stockholders of MICT will own a smaller percentage of the combined organization than their ownership of their respective companies prior to the Transactions. Immediately after the closing of the Acquisition, it is anticipated that MICT stockholders will own approximately 7.64% of the common stock of the combined organization and GFH stockholder will own approximately 75.76% of the common stock of MICT. These estimates are subject to adjustment. During the pendency of the Acquisition, MICT and GFH may not be able to enter into a business combination with another party at a favorable price because of restrictions in the Merger Agreement, which could adversely affect their respective businesses. Covenants in the Merger Agreement impede the ability of MICT and GFH to make acquisitions, subject to certain exceptions relating to fiduciary duties, as set forth below, or to complete other transactions that are not in the ordinary course of business pending completion of the Acquisition. As a result, if the Acquisition is not completed, the parties may be at a disadvantage to their competitors during such period. In addition, while the Merger Agreement is in effect, each party is generally prohibited during the interim period from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or entering into certain extraordinary transactions, such as merger, sale of assets or other business combination outside the ordinary course of business with any third party, subject to certain exceptions relating to fiduciary duties, as set forth below. Any such transactions could be favorable to such partys stockholders. Certain provisions of the Merger Agreement may discourage third parties from submitting alternative takeover proposals, including proposals that may be superior to the arrangements contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The terms of the Merger Agreement prohibit each of MICT and GFH from soliciting alternative takeover proposals or cooperating with persons making unsolicited takeover proposals, except, in the case of MICT, in the limited circumstances when its board of directors determines in good faith that an unsolicited alternative takeover proposal is or is reasonably likely to be inconsistent with the board of directors fiduciary duties. 21 The market price of MICTs common stock is expected to be volatile, and the market price of the common stock may drop following the Acquisition . The market price of MICTs common stock following the Acquisition could be subject to significant fluctuations. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of MICTs common stock to fluctuate include: changes in laws or regulations applicable to MICTs business and operations; introduction of new products, services or technologies by MICTs competitors; failure to meet or exceed financial and development projections MICT may provide to the public; failure to meet or exceed the financial and development projections of the investment community; announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments by MICT or its competitors; additions or departures of key personnel; significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about MICTs business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinions regarding its business and stock; general market or macroeconomic conditions; sales of its common stock by MICT or its shareholders in the future; trading volume of MICTs common stock; and period-to-period fluctuations in MICTs financial results Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of MICTs common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm MICTs profitability and reputation. An active market for MICTs common stock may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of MICTs common stock. The price of MICTs common stock may vary significantly due to factors specific to MICT as well as to general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for MICTs common stock may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established and sustained. 22 The market price of MICTs common stock may decline as a result of the Acquisition. The market price of MICTs common stock may decline as a result of the Acquisition for a number of reasons including if: investors react negatively to the prospects of MICTs business and the prospects of the Acquisition; the effect of the Acquisition on MICTs business and prospects is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; or MICT does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts. MICTs stockholders may not realize a benefit from the Acquisition commensurate with the ownership dilution they will experience in connection with the Merger. If MICT is unable to realize the full strategic and financial benefits currently anticipated from the Acquisition, MICTs stockholders will have experienced substantial dilution of their ownership interests in MICT without receiving any commensurate benefit, or only receiving part of the commensurate benefit to the extent MICT is able to realize only part of the strategic and financial benefits currently anticipated from the Merger. Following the Acquisition, if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about MICT, its business, or its market, or if they change their recommendations regarding MICT common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of the MICT common stock could decline. The trading market for MICTs common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about MICT, its business, its market, or its competitors. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on MICT. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of MICT, MICTs stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts who may cover MICT change their recommendation regarding MICTs share adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of the MICTs common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who may currently cover MICT were to cease coverage of MICT or fail to regularly publish reports on it, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause MICTs stock price or trading volume to decline. Future sales of shares by stockholders could cause MICTs stock price to decline. If stockholders of MICT sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of MICTs common stock in the public market after legal restrictions on resale discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K lapse, the trading price of MICTs common stock could decline. Based on shares outstanding as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and shares expected to be issued upon completion of the Acquisition, MICT is expected to have outstanding a total of approximately 145,130,577 shares of common stock immediately following the completion of the Acquisition. Of such shares, all of the shares being issued to GFH pursuant to the Merger Agreement, which shall be subject to a lock-up agreement for a period of twelve (12) months following the closing of the Acquisition, shall become available for sale. All other outstanding shares of common stock will be freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. If these shares are sold, the trading price of MICTs common stock shares could decline. Risks related to recent and potential changes to regulatory legislation in the British Virgin Islands could lead to increased costs of GFH in complying with additional regulatory and reporting requirements. As the global regulatory and tax environment evolves, GFH may be subject to new or different statutory and regulatory requirements (for example, on January 1, 2019 the Economic Substance (Companies and Limited Partnerships) Act, 2018 of the British Virgin Islands (the Economic Substance Act ) came into force and related regulations and guidance are anticipated in due course). It is difficult to predict what impact the adoption of these laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations could have on GFH, however, compliance with various additional obligations may create significant additional costs that may be borne by GFH or otherwise affect the management and operation of GFH. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. We currently maintain office space in Herzliya, Israel. The Company has terminated the lease and it shall be terminated effectively on March 2020. We have engaged in an alternative lease agreement for nearby offices in Herzliya as well. Under the new lease we are sharing certain office space with Micronet (under a sub-lease) and we are currently occupying 25% of the space and approximately 1,092 square feet and our monthly rent obligation is approximately $2,337 (25% of the total rent, paid on a pro rata basis). Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we may become subject to litigation incidental to our business. In March 2017, MICT entered into an Investment Banking Agreement, or the Sunrise Agreement, with Sunrise Securities LLC and Trump Securities LLC, or collectively, Sunrise, through Sunrises principal, Amnon Mandelbaum, pursuant to which Sunrise agreed to assist MICT in identifying, analyzing, structuring, and negotiating suitable business opportunities, such as a sale of stock or assets, merger, tender offer, joint venture, financing arrangement, private placement, or any similar transaction or combination thereof. The parties initially disagreed as to the amount of the fee that would be payable upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. There are also questions about the applicability of the Sunrise Agreement to the Acquisition, and it is thus not clear whether or not Sunrise shall be owed any transaction fee upon the closing of the Acquisition. There can be no assurance that a settlement will be reached with respect to this disagreement. If Sunrise asserts a claim for fees and a settlement is not reached, it could result in litigation or other legal proceedings, which may cause MICT and/or GFH (which, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, shall be responsible for the settlement and payment of any claims brought under the Sunrise Agreement) to incur substantial costs defending such dispute, and which could delay the closing of the Acquisition or result in the termination of the Merger Agreement. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq under the symbol MICT. Holders As of February 18, 2020, we had 11,089,532 shares of common stock outstanding and such shares were held by 15 stockholders of record. Because some of the shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividends We did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2018 or 2019 and currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have no dividends policy and will consider distributing dividends on a year by year basis. We expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Subject to the foregoing, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the first quarter of 2019, we issued an aggregate of 145,300 shares of our common stock to certain of our service providers as compensation in lieu of cash compensation owed to them for services rendered. During the second quarter of 2019, we issued an aggregate of 275,300 shares of our common stock to certain of our service providers as compensation in lieu of cash compensation owed to them for services rendered. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we issued an aggregate of 80,000 shares of our common stock to certain of our service providers as compensation in lieu of cash compensation owed to them for services rendered. We claimed exemption from registration under the Securities Act for each of the foregoing transactions under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not applicable. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview MICT Inc., or we or the Company, was formed as a Delaware corporation on January 31, 2002. On March 14, 2013, the Company changed its corporate name from Lapis Technologies, Inc. to Micronet Enertec Technologies, Inc. On July 13, 2018, following the sale of its former subsidiary Enertec Systems Ltd., the Company changed the Company name from Micronet Enertec Technologies, Inc. to MICT, Inc. Our shares have been listed for trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or Nasdaq, since April 29, 2013. The Companys business relates to its ownership interest in Micronet, a former consolidated subsidiary, formed and based in Israel, in which the Company previously held a majority ownership interest that has since been diluted to a minority ownership interest. 25 As of December 31, 2019, the Company held 30.48% of Micronets issued and outstanding shares, and together with an irrevocable proxy in our benefit from Mr. David Lucatz, the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, it held 37.79% of the voting interest in Micronet as of such date. Micronet operates in the growing commercial MRM market and video analytics device market. Micronet through both its Israeli and U.S. operational offices, designs, develops, manufactures and sells rugged mobile computing devices that provide fleet operators and field workforces with computing solutions in challenging work environments. Micronets vehicle portable tablets increase workforce productivity and enhance corporate efficiency by offering computing power and communication capabilities that provide fleet operators with visibility into vehicle location, fuel usage, speed and mileage. Furthermore, users are able to manage the drivers in various aspects, such as: driver behavior, driver identification, reporting hours worked, customer/organization working procedures and protocols, route management and navigation based on tasks and time schedule. End users may also receive real time messages for various services such as pickup and delivery, repair and maintenance, status reports, alerts, notices relating to the start and ending of work, digital forms, issuing and printing of invoices and payments. Through its SmartHub product, Micronet provides its consumers with services such as driver recognition, identifying and preventing driver fatigue, recognizing driver behavior, preventive maintenance, fuel efficiency and an advanced driver assistance system. In addition, Micronet provides third party telematics service providers, or TSPs, a platform to offer services such as Hours of Service. Micronet previously commenced and continues to evaluate integration with other TSPs. Micronet is currently entering the video analytics device market by developing an all in-one video telematics device known as Micronet SmartCam. Micronet SmartCam technologically is based on the powerful flexible Android platform, is expected to be a ruggedized, integrated, and ready-to-go smart camera supporting complete telematics features designed for in-vehicle use. Coupled with vehicle-connected interfaces, state of the art diagnostic capabilities, and two cameras, it offers video analytics and telematics services, addressing safety, vehicle health, and tracking needs of commercial fleets. We believe that Micronet SmartCam provides a versatile, advanced, and affordable mobile computing platform for a variety of fleet management and video analytics solutions. The powerful computing platform, coupled with the Android 9 operating system, allows the company customers to run their applications or pick and choose a set of applications and services from Micronet marketplace. Micronets customers consist primarily of application service providers, or ASPs, and solution providers specializing in the MRM market. These companies sell Micronets products as part of their MRM systems and solutions. Currently, Micronet does not sell directly to end users. Micronet customers are generally MRM solution and service providers, ASP providers in the transportation market, including long haul, local fleets student transportation (yellow busses) and fleet and field management systems for construction and heavy equipment. Micronet products are used by customers worldwide. Acquisition Agreement with BNN Technology PLC On December 18, 2018, we, GFH, Merger Sub, BNN, BI China, ParagonEx, certain holders of ParagonExs outstanding ordinary shares and a trustee thereof, and Mark Gershinson, in the capacity as the representative of the ParagonEx sellers, entered into the Acquisition Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Acquisition Agreement, Merger Sub would merge with and into the Company, as a result of which each outstanding share of the Companys common stock and warrant to purchase the same would be cancelled in exchange for the right of the holders thereof to receive 0.93 substantially equivalent securities of GFH, after which GFH would acquire (i) all of the issued and outstanding securities of BI China in exchange for newly issued ordinary shares of GFH and (ii) all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of ParagonEx for a combination of cash in the amount equal to approximately $25 million (the majority of which was raised in a private placement by GFH), unsecured promissory notes and newly issued ordinary shares of GFH. In furtherance of the Transactions, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions described in the Acquisition Agreement, BNN agreed to commence the Offer as promptly as practicable and no event later than 15 business days after the execution of the Acquisition Agreement, to purchase up to approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock at the Offer Price. On March 13, 2019, the deadline for the Offer was extended to April 8, 2019. Additionally, following the Transactions, it was contemplated that the certain of our operating business assets, including our interest in Micronet, would be spun off to our stockholders who continue to retain shares of our common stock after the Offer. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, and assuming that none of the shares of our common stock are purchased by BNN in connection with the Offer, our stockholders would own approximately 5.27% of GFH after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. 26 On May 31, 2019, we terminated the spin-off of Micronet and in June 2019, the Offer was terminated. Effective November 7, 2019, the Parties entered into the Termination Agreement, pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the Acquisition Agreement, effective immediately. Merger Agreement with GFH On November 7, 2019, we and Intermediate entered into, and Merger Sub, shall upon execution of a joinder, enter the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Intermediate, with Intermediate continuing as the surviving entity, and each outstanding share of Intermediates common stock shall be cancelled in exchange for the right of the holders thereof to receive a substantially equivalent security of MICT. GFH will receive an aggregate of 109,946,914 shares of MICT common stock as merger consideration in the Acquisition. Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Intermediate entered into (i) a share exchange agreement with Beijing Brookfield pursuant to which Intermediate will acquire all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares and other equity interest of Beijing Brookfield from the shareholders of Beijing Brookfield in exchange for 16,310,759 newly issued shares of GFH and (ii) a share exchange agreement with ParagonEx, the ParagonEx Sellers and Mark Gershinson, pursuant to which, the ParagonEx Sellers will transfer to Intermediate all of the issued and outstanding securities of ParagonEx in exchange for Intermediates payment and delivery of $10.0 million in cash, which is to be paid upon the closing of the Acquisition, and 75,132,504 newly issued shares of GFH deliverable at the closing of the share exchange. After giving effect to the Acquisition, the conversion of the Convertible Debentures and the conversion or exercise of the securities issued by MICT pursuant to the Offering of the Preferred Stock and Warrants and the Offering of Convertible Note and Warrants, it is expected that MICT will have approximately $15.0 million of cash as well as ownership of ParagonEx and Beijing Brookfield and that MICTs current stockholders will own approximately 11,089,532 shares, or 7.64%, of the 145,130,577 shares of MICT common stock outstanding. Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement is subject to certain closing conditions, including, among other things, approval by the stockholders of MICT and receipt of a fairness opinion indicating that the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are fair to the stockholders of MICT. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for the Company and Intermediate. The Merger Agreement also contains customary representations, warranties and covenants made by, among others, MICT, Intermediate and Merger Sub, including as to the conduct of their respective businesses (as applicable) between the date of signing the Merger Agreement and the closing of the transactions contemplated thereby. The Merger Agreement provides that all options to purchase shares of the Companys common stock that are outstanding and unexercised shall be accelerated in full effective as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Acquisition. The options shall survive the closing of the Acquisition for a period of 15 months from the date of the closing of the Acquisition and all equity incentive plans of the Company shall remain in effect. Consummation of the Merger Agreement is subject to various conditions, including the following mutual conditions of the parties unless waived: (i) the approval of the Merger Agreement by the requisite vote of MICTs stockholders; (ii) expiration of the applicable waiting period under any antitrust laws, including the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; (iii) receipt of requisite regulatory approval, (iv) receipt of required consents and provision of required notices to third parties, (v) no law or order preventing or prohibiting the Acquisition or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or the Closing; (vi) no restraining order or injunction preventing the Acquisition or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement; (vii) appointment or election of the members of the post-Closing MICT board of directors as agreed, and (viii) the filing of the definitive proxy statement with the SEC. In addition, prior to the consummation of the Acquisition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated after the closing of the Beijing Brookfield Acquisition or the ParagonEx Acquisition, as the case may be, or if the Acquisition does not close by the outside date set forth in the Merger Agreement, the transactions contemplated by the Beijing Brookfield Share Exchange Agreement and the ParagonEx Share Exchange Agreement, may be unwound. In the event of an unwinding of such acquisitions, GFH will return the Beijing Brookfield shares to BI Interactive and the ParagonEx shares to the Paragon Ex Sellers and in turn BI Interactive and the ParagonEx Sellers will return the shares of Global Fintech received in the applicable share exchange. 27 Voting Agreement . In connection with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, DLC, an entity affiliated with David Lucatz, the President and Chief Executive Officer of MICT, entered into the Voting Agreement, pursuant to which, during the term of such agreement, DLC has agreed to vote all of its capital shares in MICT in favor of the Merger Agreement, the related ancillary documents and any required amendments to MICTs organizational documents, and in favor of all of the transactions in furtherance thereof, and to take certain other actions in support of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and will, at every meeting of the stockholders of MICT called for such purpose, and at every adjournment or postponement thereof (or in any other circumstances upon which a vote, consent or approval is sought, including by written consent), not vote any of its shares of the Common Stock at such meeting in favor of, or consent to, and will vote against and not consent to, the approval of any alternative proposal that is intended, or would reasonably be expected, to prevent, impede, interfere with, delay or adversely affect in any material respect the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The Voting Agreement shall terminate, among other reasons, upon the earlier of the termination of the Merger Agreement and March 31, 2020. Offering of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants On June 4, 2019, we entered into the Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement with the Preferred Purchasers, subject to approval by the Nasdaq Stock Market for as to the eligibility of the transaction pursuant to which we agreed to sell 3,181,818 shares of Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock was sold together with the Preferred Warrants to purchase up to 4,772,727 shares of common stock (representing 75% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock into which the Preferred Stock shall be convertible), for aggregate gross proceeds of $7 million to us. The terms of the Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement were approved by Nasdaq Stock Market in July 2019 and as a result the company issued the preferred stock along with the warrants. The Preferred Stock shall be convertible into common stock at the option of each holder of Preferred Stock at any time and from time to time, at a conversion price of $1.10 per share and shall also convert automatically upon the occurrence of certain events, including the completion by us of a fundamental transaction. Commencing on March 31, 2020, cumulative cash dividends shall become payable on the Preferred Stock at the rate per share of 7% per annum, which rate shall increase to 14% per annum on June 30, 2020. We shall also have the option to redeem some or all of the Preferred Stock, at any time and from time to time, beginning on December 31, 2019. The holders of Preferred Stock shall vote together with the holders of common stock as a single class on as-converted basis, and the holders of Preferred Stock holding a majority-in-interest of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to appoint the Preferred Director. The Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement provides for customary registration rights. The Preferred Warrants shall have an exercise price of $1.01 (subject to customary adjustment in the event of future stock dividends, splits and the like), which is above the average price of the common stock during the preceding five trading days of entry into the Preferred Securities Purchase Agreement, and shall be exercisable immediately, until the earlier of (i) two years from the date of issuance or (ii) the later of (a) 180 days after the closing by the Company of a change of control transaction, or (b) the companys next debt or equity financing of at least $20 million. Offering of Convertible Note and Warrants On June 4, 2019, we entered into the Note Purchase Agreement with BNN, subject to approval by the Nasdaq Stock Market for as to the eligibility of the transaction pursuant to which BNN agreed to purchase from us $2 million of Convertible Notes, which subscription amount shall be subject to increase by up to an additional $1 million as determined by BNN and us. The Convertible Notes, which shall be convertible into up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock (using the applicable conversion ratio of $1.10 per share), shall be sold together with certain the Note Warrants to purchase up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock (representing 100% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible). The Convertible Notes shall have a duration of two (2) years. The Convertible Notes shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the Note Purchaser at any time and from time to time, and upon the issuance of one or more Convertible Notes. Darren Mercer, the Chief Executive Officer of BNN, was appointed to the Companys board of directors as the Note Director. The Note Purchase Agreement provides for customary registration rights. The terms of the note purchase agreement were approved by Nasdaq Stock Market in July 2019 and as a result the company issued the convertible notes along with the warrants. 28 The Note Warrants shall have an exercise price of $1.01 (subject to customary adjustment in the event of future stock dividends, splits and the like), and shall be exercisable immediately upon receipt of stockholder approval of the Convertible Note Offering, until the earlier of (i) two years from the date of issuance or (ii) the later of (a) 180 days after the closing by the Company of a change of control transaction, or (b) the companys next debt or equity financing of at least $20 million. On January 21, 2020, we entered into a Conversion Agreement with BNN, pursuant to which BNN agreed to the Conversion, in which the outstanding Convertible Notes, issued on July 31, 2019, as part of the initial closing of the Note Purchase Agreement, were converted into 1,818,181 shares of the Companys newly-designated Series B Preferred stock. In accordance with the Conversion, the Company filed a Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series B Preferred with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 21, 2020 to designate the rights and preferences of up to 1,818,181 shares of Series B Preferred. Offering of Secured Convertible Debentures On November 7, 2019, we entered into the Primary Purchase Agreement with the Primary Purchasers pursuant to which, among other things, the Primary Purchasers agreed, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Primary Purchase Agreement, to purchase from us the Primary Convertible Debentures with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $15.9 million. Concurrently with entry into the Primary Purchase Agreement, we entered into the Non-Primary Purchase Agreement with the Non-Primary Purchasers pursuant to which, among other things, the Non-Primary Purchasers agreed, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Non-Primary Purchase Agreement, to purchase from us the Non-Primary Convertible Debentures with an aggregate principal amount of $9.0 million. The Convertible Debentures shall be convertible into our shares of common stock at a conversion price of $1.41 per share. The Convertible Debentures will be due upon the earlier of (i) six months from the date of issuance and (ii) the termination of the Merger Agreement. We are obligated to pay interest to the Purchasers on the outstanding principal amount at the rate of 5% per annum, payable quarterly, in cash or, at our option in certain instances, in shares of common stock. We may not voluntarily prepay any portion of the principal amount of the Convertible Debentures without the prior written consent of the Purchasers. Subject to stockholder approval of an increase in the shares of common stock to allow for the full conversion of the Convertible Debentures into common stock, the Convertible Debentures shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the Purchasers at any time and from time to time. Upon the closing of the Acquisition and written notice from us to the Purchasers, the Forced Conversion shall be effected. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others, if we fail to file a preliminary proxy statement with respect to the Acquisition on or prior to November 18, 2019, if the Forced Conversion does not occur on or before January 24, 2020, or if there are certain breaches of the Primary Purchasers Registration Rights Agreement, the Primary Purchasers are permitted to require us to redeem the Primary Convertible Debentures, including any interest that has accrued thereunder, for cash. The proceeds of each Convertible Debenture Offering were placed in separate blocked bank accounts, each of which is subject to a blocked deposit account control agreement that we entered into. We shall not have access to such proceeds until the closing of the Acquisition and only upon the satisfaction of certain other requirements, including, among other things, effectiveness of the Resale Registration Statement (as defined below). The Purchase Agreements provide for customary registration rights, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, which was to be entered into at the time of the closing of the Convertible Debenture Offering. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreements, we are obligated to, among other things, (i) file the Resale Registration Statement with the SEC for purposes of registering the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Convertible Debentures and (ii) use its best efforts to cause the Resale Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as soon as practicable after filing, and in any event no later than the effectiveness of the Acquisition. The Registration Rights Agreements contains customary terms and conditions for a transaction of this type, including certain customary cash penalties on us for our failure to satisfy the specified filing and effectiveness time periods. 29 Impairment of Micronet Investment On September 5, 2019, Micronet closed a public equity offering on the TASE. As a result, our ownership interest in Micronet was diluted from 33.88% to 30.48%, and our current voting interest in Micronet stands at 37.79% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet. The Company recorded an impairment of its investment in Micronet and change in fair value in loan to Micronet as of December 31, 2019 in the total amount of $281. The method used for determining fair value of the investment in Micronet was based on a quoted market price on the TASE. While Micronet is a publicly traded company in Israel, its shareholder base is widely spread and we continue to be Micronets largest shareholder, as of September 5, 2019 maintaining a voting interest of 37.79% of its issued and outstanding shares as of September 5, 2019. We believe that since most items that may require shareholder approval required majority consent, we exert a high level of influence over such voting matters which may include the appointment and removal of directors. In that regard, to date, we have appointed a majority of the directors of Micronets board of directors. Based on the above, although we are unable to fully consolidate Micronets financial statements according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, we also do not consider Micronet to be a discontinued operation since we consider ourselves in effective control of Micronet and the raising of equity by Micronet that diluted our interests was done in order to continue its operations. While Micronet is a publicly traded company in Israel, its shareholder base is widely spread and we continue to be Micronets largest shareholder, maintaining a voting interest of 30.48% of its issued and outstanding shares. We believe that since most items that may require shareholder approval required majority consent, we exert a high level of influence over such voting matters which may include the appointment and removal of directors. In that regard, to date, we have appointed a majority of the directors of Micronets board of directors. Based on the above, although we are unable to fully consolidate Micronets financial statements according to U.S. GAAP, we also do not consider Micronet to be a discontinued operation since we consider ourselves in effective control of Micronet and the raising of equity by Micronet that diluted our interests was done in order to continue its operations. The following is the composition from Micronets operation for the year ended December 31, 2019, respectively: Year ended December 31, 2019 Revenues $ 8,747 Gross profit 1,361 Loss from operations (3,052 ) Net Loss $ (3,268 ) Net loss in equity method (*) (608 ) Impairment of equity method investment (187 ) (*) Includes Gain from change of ownership interests 101 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $477,000, compared to $14,162,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This represents a decrease of $13,685,000, or 97%, for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily due to the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019, as well as a decrease in customer orders, and their value, a trend that has continued from the year ended December 31, 2018. Gross loss for the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased by $3,879,000 to $369,000, and represents 77% of the revenues. This is in comparison to gross profit of $3,510,000, or 25% of the revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in gross loss for the year ended December 31, 2019 is mainly a result of the deconsolidation of Micronet as well as the decrease in revenues and slow inventory reduction at Micronet for the two month period that Micronet was consolidated. 30 Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing costs are part of operating expenses. Selling and marketing costs for year ended December 31, 2019 were $198,000, compared to $1,582,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This represents a decrease of $1,384,000, or 87%, for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease is mainly due to the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019 as well as a decrease in salary expenses due to the reduction of employees and subcontractors at Micronet. General and Administrative General and administrative costs are part of operating expenses. General and administrative costs for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $3,027,000, compared to $6,345,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This represents a decrease of $3,318,000, or 52%, for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease is mainly the result of the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019 as well as decreases in wages and professional services at Micronet and partially offset by (1) an increase associated with the issuance of options and shares to directors, employees and consultants, and (2) a provision for doubtful debts (3) transactions fees. Impairment of Goodwill Previously the goodwill was recorded at Micronet. The goodwill impairment test was conducted in two steps. In the first step, Micronet determines the fair value of the reporting unit. If the net book value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Micronet would then perform the second step of the impairment test, which requires the allocation of the reporting units fair value of all its assets and liabilities in a manner similar to acquisition cost allocation, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill is then compared to the carrying value to determine impairment, if any. Micronet has one operating segment and one operating unit related to its product offerings in the MRM market As of December 31, 2018, Micronets market capitalization was significantly lower than the net book value of the reporting unit. In establishing the appropriate market capitalization, the Micronet looked at the date that the annual impairment test is performed (December 31, 2018). In order to calculate its market capitalization, Micronet used the price per share of NIS 0.46. Following the results of the step one test, Micronet continued to the second step, which was performed by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. Micronet determined that the carrying value of goodwill should be impaired and therefore an impairment of $1.466 million was recorded. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are part of operating expenses. Research and development costs, which mainly include wages, materials and sub-contractors, for the year ended December 31, 2019, were $255,000, compared to $1,906,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This represents a decrease of $1,651,000, or 87%, for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in research and development costs for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily a result of the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019 as well as a decrease in salary expenses due to a decrease in the number of employees at Micronet . 31 Loss from Operations Our loss from operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $3,869,000, compared to loss from operations of $9,087,000, for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in loss from operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 is mainly a result of the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019. Financial Expenses, net Financial expenses, net for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $388,000, compared to expenses of $1,267,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This represents a decrease of $879,000, for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in financial expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily due to changes in currency exchange rates and the fact that we fully repaid our bank loan and debt that was outstanding to YA II PN, Ltd., or YA, in 2019. Net Profit/Loss Attributed to MICT, Inc. Our net loss attributed to MICT, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $4,217,000, compared to a net loss of $2,610,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018. This represents an increase in net loss of $1,607,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018. The increase in net loss is primarily attributable to the closing of the sale of all of Enertecs outstanding equity to Coolisys pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement and as a result of the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019. Discontinued Operation As a result of the sale of Enertec Systems 2001 Ltd., or Enertec, our subsidiary, to Coolisys, we classified Enertecs assets and liabilities as held for sale and the results of operations in the statement of operations and prior periods results have been reclassified as a discontinued operation. Enertecs net loss decreased from $4,901,000 for the year ended December 31, 2017, to a net profit of $4,894,000 for the five months ended May 22, 2018. The net loss for the five months ended May 22, 2018 was partially offset by the $6,844,000 capital gain realized from such sale, resulting in a net profit of $4,894,000. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2019, our total cash and cash equivalents balance was $3,154,000, as compared to $2,174,000 as of December 31, 2018. This reflects an increase of $980,000 in cash and cash equivalents for the reasons described below. Sales of our Securities On June 4, 2019, the Company entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell 3,181,818 shares of Preferred Stock with a stated value of $2.20 per share. The Preferred Stock, which shall be convertible into up to 6,363,636 shares of common stock of the Company, was sold together with the Preferred Warrants, to purchase up to 4,772,727 shares of common stock, for aggregate gross proceeds of $7 million to the Company. Concurrently with the offering of the Preferred Stock, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Note Purchase Agreement, with BNN, pursuant to which BNN agreed to purchase from the Company $2 million of convertible notes, which subscription amount shall be subject to increase by up to an additional $1 million as determined by BNN and the Company, or collectively, the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes, which shall be convertible into up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock, shall be sold together with certain common stock purchase warrants to purchase up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock. The Convertible Notes shall have a duration of two years. 32 On July 29, 2019, the Company completed the first closing of the offering of Preferred Stock, pursuant to which the Company sold 2,386,363 shares of Preferred Stock and accompanying Preferred Warrants to purchase up to 3,579,544 shares of common stock, for aggregate gross proceeds of $5,250,000. The Company paid an aggregate of $420,000 in fees in with respect to the offering of the Preferred Stock. On December 31, 2019, the company received $1,200,000 in connection with the sale and issuance of additional shares of Preferred Stock. In addition, on November 7, 2019, the Company the Primary Purchase Agreement with the Primary Purchasers, pursuant to which, among other things, the Primary Purchasers agreed, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Primary Purchase Agreement, to purchase from us the Primary Convertible Debentures with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $15.9 million. Concurrently with entry into the Primary Purchase Agreement, we entered into the Non-Primary Purchase Agreement with the Non-Primary Purchasers pursuant to which, among other things, the Non-Primary Purchasers agreed, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Non-Primary Purchase Agreement, to purchase from us the Non-Primary Convertible Debentures with an aggregate principal amount of $9.0 million. The Convertible Debentures shall be convertible into our shares of Common Stock at a conversion price of $1.41 per share. The Convertible Debentures will be due upon the earlier of (i) six months from the date of issuance and (ii) the termination of the Merger Agreement. We are obligated to pay interest to the Purchasers on the outstanding principal amount at the rate of 5% per annum, payable quarterly, in cash or, at our option in certain instances, in shares of Common Stock. We may not voluntarily prepay any portion of the principal amount of the Convertible Debentures without the prior written consent of the Purchasers. Subject to stockholder approval of the Convertible Debenture Offering, the Convertible Debentures shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the Purchasers at any time and from time to time. Upon the closing of the Acquisition and written notice of the Company to the Purchasers, the Forced Conversion shall be effected. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others, if the Company fails to file a preliminary proxy statement with respect to the Acquisition on or prior to November 18, 2019, if the Forced Conversion does not occur on or before January 24, 2020, or if there are certain breaches of the Primary Purchasers Registration Rights Agreement, the Primary Purchasers are permitted to require us to redeem the Primary Convertible Debentures, including any interest that has accrued thereunder, for cash. The Purchase Agreements provide for customary registration rights, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, which was to be entered into at the time of the closing of the Convertible Debenture Offering. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will be obligated to, among other things, (i) file a registration statement with the SEC within seven business days following the filing of an initial proxy statement with respect to the Acquisition, but no later than November 27, 2019, for purposes of registering the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Convertible Debentures and (ii) use its best efforts to cause the resale registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC as soon as practicable after filing, and in any event no later than January 24, 2020. The Registration Rights Agreement contains customary terms and conditions for a transaction of this type, including certain customary cash penalties on the Company for its failure to satisfy the specified filing and effectiveness time periods. On November 12, 2019, the Company filed an Amended Certificate of Designation of the Preferences, Rights and Limitations with the Secretary of State of Delaware to remove the prohibition on forced conversions of the Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share, into shares of common stock in the event the Companys stockholders approve the Acquisition after December 31, 2019. The proceeds of the Convertible Debenture Offering, approximately $25 million, have been placed in a blocked bank account, pursuant to a deposit account control agreement, to be entered into. The Company shall not have access to such proceeds until the closing of the Acquisition and only upon the satisfaction of certain other requirements, including, among other things, effectiveness of the Resale Registration Statement. In connection with the Convertible Debentures, on January 17, 2020, the Company, certain of its subsidiaries, the Primary Purchasers and the representative thereof, as collateral agent, entered into a security agreement, or the Primary Security Agreement. Pursuant to the Primary Security Agreement, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries granted to the Primary Purchasers a first priority security interest in, a lien upon and a right of set-off against all of their personal property (subject to certain exceptions) to secure the Primary Convertible Debentures. On January 17, 2020, the parties also entered into a registration rights agreement, or the Primary Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Primary Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to, among other things, (i) file a registration statement, or the Resale Registration Statement with SEC within seven business days following the filing of an initial proxy statement with respect to the contemplated merger by and among the Company, Intermediate, and Merger Sub, for purposes of registering the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Primary Convertible Debentures, and (ii) use its best efforts to cause the Resale Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as soon as practicable after filing, and in any event no later than the effectiveness of the Acquisition. The Primary Registration Rights Agreement contains customary terms and conditions for a transaction of this type, including certain customary cash penalties on the Company for its failure to satisfy the specified filing and effectiveness time periods. 33 In addition, on January 21, 2020, MICT entered into a Conversion Agreement with BNN, pursuant to which BNN agreed to convert the outstanding convertible note, issued on July 31, 2019, into 1,818,181 shares of the Companys newly-designated Series B Preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, with a stated value of $1.10 per share, or the Series B Preferred. The Series B Preferred was issued on February 3, 2020. Loans Provided by MICT On September 19, 2019, MICT Telematics Ltd., or MICT Telematics, a wholly owned subsidiary of MICT, entered into a loan agreement with Micronet, pursuant to which MICT Telematics loaned Micronet $250,000, on certain terms and conditions, or the First Loan. The proceeds from the First Loan were designed for Micronet working capital and general corporate needs. The First Loan did not bear any interest and was due and payable upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2019; or (ii) at such time Micronet receives an investment of at least $250,000 from non-related parties. The Company measures the loan at fair value through profit and loss. On November 13, 2019, the Company and Micronet executed a convertible loan agreement pursuant to which the Company agreed to loan to Micronet $500,000 in the aggregate, or the Convertible Loan. The Convertible Loan bears interest at a rate of 3.95% calculated and is paid on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Convertible Loan, if not converted, shall be repaid in four equal installments, the first of such installment payable following the fifth quarter after the issuance of the Convertible Loan, with the remaining three installments due on each subsequent quarter thereafter, such that the Convertible Loan shall be repaid in full upon the lapse of 24 months from its grant. In addition, the outstanding principal balance of the Convertible Loan, and all accrued and unpaid interest, is convertible at the Companys option, at a conversion price equal to 0.38 NIS per Micronet share. Pursuant to the Convertible Loan agreement, Micronet also agreed to issue the Company an option to purchase up to one share of Micronets ordinary shares for each ordinary share that issued as a result of a conversion of the Convertible Loan at an exercise price of 0.60 NIS per share, exercisable for a period of 15 months. The closing of the Convertible Loan transaction was subject to the approval of Micronets shareholders, which was obtained at a general meetings of its shareholders on January 1, 2020. In view of Micronets working capital needs, on November 18, 2019 the Company entered into an additional loan agreement with Micronet for the loan of $125,000, pursuant to terms and conditions identical to those governing the First Loan, including the repayment terms, or the Second Loan. Accordingly, prior to the approval of the Convertible Loan by Micronets shareholders on January 1, 2020, the Company transferred to Micronet, pursuant to the First and Second Loan, a total sum of $375,000. On January 1, 2020 the Convertible Loan agreement was approved at the general meeting of Micronets shareholders. At such time the First and Second Loan were repaid to MICT and the remaining amount due to be loaned under the Convertible Loan, in the sum of $125,000, was loaned to Micronet. The Company recognized a loss on financial assets derived from a measurement preformed to the loan as of December 31, 2019 the company recorded a financial expenses on the loan amounted to $94,000 in 2019. In addition, in December 2017, the Company, Enertec, previously our wholly owned subsidiary, and Enertec Management Ltd., entered into a Share Purchase Agreement, or the Share Purchase Agreement, with Coolisys Technologies Inc., or Coolisys, a subsidiary of DPW Holdings, Inc., or DPW, pursuant to which we agreed to sell the entire share capital of Enertec to Coolisys. As consideration for the sale of Enertecs entire share capital, Coolisys agreed to pay, at the closing of the transaction, a purchase price of $5,250,000 as well as assume up to $4,000,000 of Enertec debt. On May 22, 2018, the Company closed on the sale of all of the outstanding equity of Enertec pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement. At the closing, the Company received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $4,700,000 of which 10% was to be held in escrow, or the Escrow Amount, for up to 14 months after the closing to satisfy certain potential indemnification claims. 34 In conjunction with, and as a condition to, the closing, the Company, Enertec, Coolisys, DPW and Mr. David Lucatz, our Chief Executive Officer, executed a consulting agreement, or the Consulting Agreement, whereby we, via Mr. Lucatz, will provide Enertec with certain consulting and transitional services over a 3 year period as necessary and requested by the Coolisys (but in no event to exceed 20% of Mr. Lucatzs time). Coolisys (via Enertec) will pay us an annual consulting fee of $150,000 as well as issue us 150,000 restricted shares of DPW Class A common stock, or the DPW Equity, for such services, to be vested and released from restriction in three equal installments, with the initial installment vesting the day after the closing and the remaining installments vesting on each of the first 2 anniversaries of the closing. In the event of a change of control in the Company, or if Mr. Lucatz shall no longer be employed by us, the rights and obligations under the Consulting Agreement shall be assigned to Mr. Lucatz along with the DPW Equity. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Escrow Amount remains in escrow as a result of an indemnification claim by Coolisys alleging for certain misrepresentations in the Share Purchase Agreement resulting in losses to Coolisys, estimated by Coolisys, to be at least $4,000,000. There is no ongoing litigation in this matter, and it is the Companys position is that there are no grounds for this claim by Coolisys and the Company is currently preparing a response to Coolisys latest notice. Debt Repayment On June 17, 2014, MICT Telematics entered into a loan agreement, or the Mercantile Loan Agreement, with Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd., or Mercantile Bank, pursuant to which Mercantile Bank agreed to loan the Company approximately $3,631,000 on certain terms and conditions, or the Mercantile Loan. The proceeds of the Mercantile Loan were used by the Company: (1) to refinance previous loans granted to the Company in the amount of approximately $1,333,000; (2) to complete the purchase by the Company, via Enertec, of 1.2 million shares of Micronet constituting 6.3% of the issued and outstanding shares of Micronet; and (3) for working capital and general corporate purposes. The Mercantile loan was fully repaid in July 2019. On March 29, 2018, the Company and MICT Telematics executed and closed on a securities purchase agreement with YA, whereby the Company issued and sold to YA (1) certain Series A Convertible Debentures in the aggregate principal aggregate amount of $3.2 million, or the Series A Debentures, and (2) a Series B Convertible Debenture in the principal aggregate amount of $1.8 million, or the Series B Debenture. The Series A Debentures were issued in exchange for the cancellation and retirement of certain promissory notes issued by the Company to YA on October 28, 2016, December 22, 2016, June 8, 2017 and August 22, 2017, or collectively, the Prior Notes, with a total outstanding aggregate principal amount of $3.2 million. The Series B Debenture was issued and sold for aggregate gross cash proceeds of $1.8 million. At the closing of the transactions contemplated by the securities purchase agreement, the Company agreed to pay YA II, or its designee, a commitment fee of $90,000, an extension fee of $50,000 relating to the prior extension of the secured promissory note issued on August 22, 2017, and $126,786.74 representing the accrued and unpaid interest on the Prior Notes. The Series A Debentures and Series B Debenture were secured by a pledge of shares of Micronet owned by MICT Telematics. In conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debentures, a total of $273,787 in fees and expenses were deducted from the aggregate gross proceeds. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement, the Company agreed to issue to YA a warrant to purchase up to 375,000 shares of the Companys common stock at a purchase price of $2.00 per share, a warrant to purchase up to 200,000 shares of the Companys common stock at a purchase price of $3.00 per share and a warrant to purchase up to 112,500 shares of the Companys common stock at a purchase price of $4.00 per share. On December 17, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement with YA, or the YA Agreement, with respect to (i) the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture, and (ii) the warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,187,500 shares of the Companys common stock held by YA, with exercise prices ranging from $1.50 to $4.00 and expiration dates ranging from June 30, 2021 to March 29, 2023, or collectively, the Warrants. 35 Pursuant to the YA Agreement, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and effective upon the consummation of the acquisition, the Warrants shall be replaced by certain new warrants, or the Replacement Warrants, exercisable at $2.00 per share for a number of ordinary shares of MICT equal to the number of shares underlying the Warrants immediately prior to the effectiveness of the acquisition (subject to adjustment as described therein). YA II also agreed that it would not convert the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture into more than one million shares of the Companys common stock during the period between the execution of the YA Agreement and the earlier to occur of the effectiveness of the acquisition or the termination of the Acquisition Agreement. The Company agreed to pay in cash the remaining outstanding principal amount and all accrued interest with respect to the Series A Debentures and the Series B Debenture as of the consummation of the Acquisitions, subject to any applicable redemption premiums. During 2019, the Company repaid the entire outstanding principal balance of the Series B Debentures in the aggregate amount of $1,225,000, which was paid in shares of the Companys common stock, and in October 31, 2019, the Company paid all of its outstanding principal balance, together with its accrued interest and a required 10% premium, of the Series A Debentures in the aggregate amount of $2,057,000. As of December 31, 2019, our total debt, was $1,856,000 as compared to $5,810,000 on December 31, 2018. The decrease in total debt is primarily due to the (i) dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019, (ii) the full repayment of the YA II loan and (iii) the full repayment of the Mercantile Loan. Total Current Assets, Trade Accounts Receivable and Working Capital As of December 31, 2019, our total current assets were $4,417,000, as compared to $7,868,000 on December 31, 2018. The decrease is mainly due to the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019. Our trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2019, were $0 as compared to $1,010,000 at December 31, 2018. The decrease is mainly due to the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, our working capital was $4,127,000, as compared to a deficit of $684,000 at December 31, 2018. The increase is mainly due to the dilution in our ownership and voting interests in Micronet, causing us to cease consolidating Micronets operations in our financial statements commencing from February 24, 2019 and from the increase in cash and cash equivalents from the Securities Purchase Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement, each as described above. Financing Needs The Company will be required to support its own operational financial needs which include, among others, our general and administrative costs (such as for our various consultants in regulatory, tax, legal, accounting and other areas of business) and our financing costs related to the loans and funding instruments assumed by us. The Company filed a Form S-3 registration statement (File No. 333-219596) under the Securities Act with the SEC using a shelf registration process, which was declared effective on July 31, 2017. Under this shelf registration process, we may, from time to time, sell common stock, warrants or units in one or more offerings up to a total dollar amount of $30,000,000, pursuant to which we have sold approximately $1,000,000 of our securities to date. 36 On June 4, 2019 the Company entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell 3,181,818 shares of Preferred Stock with a stated value of $2.20 per share. The Preferred Stock, which shall be convertible into up to 6,363,636 shares of common stock of the Company, was sold together with the Preferred Warrants, to purchase up to 4,772,727 shares of common stock, for aggregate gross proceeds of $7 million to the Company. Concurrently with the offering of the Preferred Stock, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Note Purchase Agreement, with BNN, pursuant to which BNN agreed to purchase from the Company $2 million of Convertible Notes, which subscription amount shall be subject to increase by up to an additional $1 million as determined by BNN and the Company. The Convertible Notes, which shall be convertible into up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock, shall be sold together with certain common stock purchase warrants to purchase up to 2,727,272 shares of common stock. The Convertible Notes shall have a duration of two years. During July 2019, the Company completed the first closing of the offering of Preferred Stock, pursuant to which the Company sold 2,386,363 shares of Preferred Stock and accompanying Preferred Warrants to purchase up to 3,579,544 shares of common stock, for aggregate gross proceeds of $5,250,000 revived by the Company. The Company further closed on and received an aggregate amount of $2 million in consideration for the convertible notes. On December 31, 2019, the company received additional $1,200,000 in connection with the sale and issuance of additional shares of the Preferred Stock. On January 2020, the company closed on and received additional $550,000 in connection with the sale and issuance of additional shares of the Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company and BNN have agreed to convert the outstanding convertible note, issued to BNN on July 31, 2019, into 1,818,181 shares of the Companys newly-designated Series B Preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, with a stated value of $1.10 per share. Based on our current business plan, and in view of our cash balance following the above transactions, we anticipate that our cash balances will be sufficient to permit us to conduct our operations and carry out our contemplated business plans for at least the next 12 months from the date of this Annual Report. The Company may also satisfy its liquidity through the sale of its securities, either in public or private transactions, or through the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. We intend to use such funds in order to sustain or expand our operations and refinance our various debts. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect that is material to investors on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Critical Accounting Policies Principles of consolidation . The consolidated financial statements include the Companys and its subsidiaries financial statements. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its operating activities. In assessing control legal and contractual rights are taken into account. The consolidated financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control is achieved until the date that control ceases. Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated upon consolidation. Accounts receivable and allowances for doubtful accounts . Our trade receivables include amounts due from customers. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and we require collateral as deemed necessary. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make payments. In judging the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider multiple factors including the aging of our receivables, historical bad debt experience and the general economic environment. Management applies considerable judgment in assessing the realization of receivables, including assessing the probability of collection and the current creditworthiness of each customer. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Long-lived assets and intangible assets. Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The Company evaluates property and equipment and purchased intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company assesses the recoverability of the assets based on the undiscounted future cash flow and recognizes an impairment loss when the estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset plus the net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset. When the Company identifies an impairment, it reduces the carrying amount of the asset to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach or, when available and appropriate, to comparable market values. As of December 31, 2018 all intangible assets were fully amortized. 37 Goodwill. Micronet performed goodwill impairment tests until 2016. The goodwill impairment test is conducted in two steps. In the first step, Micronet determines the fair value of the reporting unit using expected future discounted cash flows and estimated terminal values. If the net book value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Micronet would then perform the second step of the impairment test, which requires allocation of the reporting units fair value of all its assets and liabilities in a manner similar to acquisition cost allocation, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill is then compared to the carrying value to determine impairment, if any. Starting in 2017, the Micronet now determines the fair value of the reporting unit using the income approach, which utilizes a discounted cash flow model, as the Micronet believes that this approach best approximates the units fair value at this time. Micronet has corroborated the fair values using the market approach. Judgments and assumptions related to revenue, gross profit (loss), operating expenses, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital, interest, capital expenditures, cash flows, and market conditions are inherent in developing the discounted cash flow model. Additionally, Micronet evaluated the reasonableness of the estimated fair value of its reporting unit by reconciling its market capitalization. This reconciliation allowed the Micronet to consider market expectations in corroborating the reasonableness of the fair value of the reporting unit. Following such reconciliation, Micronet found that there was a material difference (approximately 54%) between the fair value of the reporting unit and its market capitalization as of December 31, 2017. Micronet has one operating segment and one operating unit related to its product offerings in the MRM market. Until 2017, step one of the assessment resulted in the carrying value of the MRM reporting unit exceeding its fair value. As described in the preceding paragraphs, the second step was performed by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. There were no impairments recorded until 2017. As of December 31, 2018, Micronets market capitalization was significantly lower than the net book value of the reporting unit. In establishing the appropriate market capitalization, the Micronet looked at the date that the annual impairment test is performed (December 31, 2018). In order to calculate its market capitalization, Micronet used the price per share of NIS 0.46. Following the results of the step one test, Micronet continued to the second step, which was performed by allocating the reporting units fair value to all of its assets and liabilities, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. Micronet determined that the carrying value of goodwill should be impaired and therefore an impairment of $1.466 million was recorded. Revenue recognition . With respect to Micronet applicable revenue recognition U.S. GAAP requirements, Micronet implements a revenue recognition policy pursuant to which it recognizes its revenues at the amount to which it expects to be entitled when control of the products or services is transferred to its customers. Control is generally transferred when the Company has a present right to payment and title and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of products are transferred to its customers. There is limited discretion needed in identifying the point control passes: once physical delivery of the products to the agreed location has occurred, Micronet no longer has physical possession of the product and will be entitled at such time to receive payment while relieved from the significant risks and rewards of the goods delivered. For most of Micronets products sales, control transfers when products are shipped. Income taxes . Deferred taxes are determined utilizing the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax asset and liability account balances are determined based on differences between financial reporting and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The Company provides a valuation allowance, when its more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. The Company applied FASB ASC Topic 740-10-25, Income Taxes, which provides guidance for recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions and prescribes a threshold condition that a tax position must meet for any of the benefits of the uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. It also provides accounting guidance on derecognizing, classification and disclosure of these uncertain tax positions. The Companys policy on classification of all interest and penalties related to unrecognized income tax positions, if any, is to present them as a component of income tax expense. Leases - In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which establishes the principles to report transparent and economically neutral information about the assets and liabilities that arise from leases. This guidance results in a more faithful representation of the rights and obligations arising from operating and capital leases by requiring lessees to recognize the lease assets and lease liabilities that arise from leases in the statement of financial position and to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about lease transactions, such as information about variable lease payments and options to renew and terminate leases. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We used the modified retrospective transition approach in ASU No. 2018-11 and apply the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect adjustment in the period of adoption. The new standard had no effect on our consolidated financial statements, as we have no right of use assets and, or lease liabilities. The new standard provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We elected the package of practical expedients, which permits us not to reassess, under the new standard, our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. We used the practical expedient under which, a lease that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise. We didnt elect the use-of-hindsight or the practical expedient pertaining to land easements; the latter not being applicable to us. Further, this new accounting standard had no a material impact on our debt covenants. The implementation of this standard didnt have a material impact on our results of operations. 38