Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and the related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Toast is a cloud-based, all-in-one digital technology platform purpose-built for the entire restaurant community. We provide a comprehensive platform of software as a service (SaaS) products and financial technology solutions, including integrated payment processing, restaurant-grade hardware, and a broad ecosystem of third-party partners. We serve as the restaurant operating system, connecting front of house and back of house operations across dine-in, takeout, and delivery channels. As of June 30, 2023, approximately 93,000 restaurant Locations (as defined below), processing approximately $110 billion of gross payment volume in the trailing 12 months on the Toast platform, partnered with Toast to optimize operations, increase sales, engage guests, and maintain happy employees. By enabling these capabilities through a single, integrated platform, Toast improves experiences for stakeholders across the restaurant ecosystem: Restaurant operators. We arm restaurants with a wide range of products and capabilities to address their specific needs regardless of size, location, or business model. As a result, restaurants using Toast often see higher sales and greater operational efficiency. Guests. We are laser focused on helping our customers deliver memorable guest experiences at scale. Guests can place orders easily, safely, and accurately across web, mobile, and in-person channels for dine-in, takeout, or delivery. In addition, our platform empowers restaurants to utilize their guest data to deliver targeted and personalized experiences with loyalty programs and marketing solutions. Employees. Our easy-to-learn and easy-to-use technology improves the experience of restaurant employees across Toast customers. Employees are core to delivering great hospitality, and it is critical for restaurants to engage and retain employees in an increasingly competitive labor market. Our products enable new employees to learn quickly through guided workflows, facilitate faster table turns and safer, streamlined operations, and provide greater transparency around, and timely access to, employees wages. Suppliers. Our supplier management and accounting products give restaurants the tools to optimize their back-office operations. Managing supplier networks and procurement, and having high visibility into costs, are critical to efficiently operating a restaurant. Our products enable customers to automate manual billing processes, manage inventory, and improve profitability with real-time cost insights on menu items. The seamless integration across our end-to-end platform gives our customers the rich data and reporting capabilities to efficiently operate and manage their restaurants. The benefits to all stakeholders using the Toast platform create a powerful, virtuous cycle that amplifies our impact on restaurants. Guest satisfaction generates loyalty to restaurants, driving repeat sales, word-of-mouth referrals, and larger checks and tips. This promotes employee satisfaction, helping reduce turnover and motivating employees to continue to raise the bar on the guest experience. In addition, our integrated software and payments platform consolidates data on restaurant sales and operations, which enables our reporting and analytics as well as financial technology solutions, such as working capital loans, to further support our customers success. 21 Table of Contents Since our founding, we have translated our love for restaurants into a commitment to innovation and digital transformation for the restaurant industry. As we have expanded our platform, launched new products, and added new partners over time, we have rapidly grown the number of restaurant Locations on the Toast platform. We define a live location, or Location, as a unique location that has used Toast Point of Sale to record transaction volumes above a minimum threshold, and has not been marked as a churned location as of the date of determination. A Location can use Toast payment services, which we refer to as a Toast Processing Location, or for select enterprise customers, not use Toasts payment services, which we refer to as a Non-Toast Processing Location. Customers of legacy solutions provided by companies that we have acquired, that do not use Toast Point of Sale, are not included in our Location count. Recent Developments in Macroeconomic Environment Global events and macroeconomic conditions such as inflation and its potential impact on consumer spending, rising interest rates, global supply chain issues, and the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted and may continue to impact our business. While our business results remain positive, it is difficult to predict the potential impact these factors may have on our future business results because of the uncertainty they have produced or will produce among consumers and the restaurant industry. Key Business Metrics We use the following key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, (dollars in billions) 2023 2022 % Growth 2023 2022 % Growth Gross Payment Volume (GPV)(1) $ 32.1 $ 23.3 38 % $ 58.8 $ 41.1 43 % As of June 30, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 % Growth Annualized Recurring Run-Rate (ARR) $ 1,140 $ 787 45 % Gross Payment Volume (GPV)(1) Gross Payment Volume represents the sum of total dollars processed through the Toast payments platform across Toast Processing Locations in a given period. GPV is a key measure of the scale of our platform, which in turn drives our financial performance. As our customers generate more sales and therefore more GPV, we generally see higher financial technology solutions revenue. _________________ (1) Please note that numbers may not tie due to rounding to the nearest hundred million. 22 Table of Contents Annualized Recurring Run-Rate (ARR) We monitor Annualized Recurring Run-Rate as a key operational measure of the scale of our subscription and payment processing services for both new and existing customers. To calculate this metric, we first calculate recurring run-rate on a monthly basis. Monthly Recurring Run-Rate, or MRR, is measured on the final day of each month as the sum of (i) our monthly billings of subscription services fees, which we refer to as the subscription component of MRR, and (ii) our in-month adjusted payments services fees, exclusive of estimated transaction-based costs, which we refer to as the payments component of MRR. MRR does not include fees derived from Toast Capital or related costs. MRR is also not burdened by the impact of SaaS credits offered. The MRR calculation includes all locations on the Toast platform and locations on legacy solutions, which have a negligible impact on ARR. ARR is determined by taking the sum of (i) twelve times the subscription component of MRR and (ii) four times the trailing-three-month cumulative payments component of MRR. We believe this approach provides an indication of our scale, while also controlling for short-term fluctuations in payments volume. Our ARR may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customers satisfaction with our platform, pricing, competitive offerings, economic conditions, or overall changes in our customers and their guests spending levels. ARR is an operational measure, does not reflect our revenue or gross profit determined in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, and should be viewed independently of, and not combined with or substituted for, our revenue, gross profit, and other financial information determined in accordance with GAAP. Further, ARR is not a forecast of future revenue and investors should not place undue reliance on ARR as an indicator of our future or expected results. Seasonality We experience seasonality in our financial technology solutions revenue, which is largely driven by the level of GPV processed through our platform. For example, customers typically have greater sales during the warmer months, though this effect varies regionally, and can be impacted by seasonal needs of our customers (which may also impact the total number of Toast Processing Locations in such a period that contributes to our GPV). As a result, our financial technology solutions revenue per Toast Processing Location has historically been stronger in the second and third quarters. We believe that financial technology solutions revenue from both existing and potential future products will continue to represent a significant proportion of our overall revenue mix, and seasonality will continue to impact our results of operations. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from four main sources that are further described below: (1) subscription services, (2) financial technology solutions, (3) hardware, and (4) professional services. Our total revenue consists of the following: Subscription services. We generate subscription services revenue from fees charged to customers for access to our software applications, generally over a term ranging from 12 to 36 months. Our subscription services revenue is primarily based on a rate per location, and this rate varies depending on the number of software products purchased, hardware configuration, and employee count at each location. Financial technology solutions. Revenue from financial technology solutions consists primarily of transaction-based fees paid by customers to facilitate their payment transactions, which are generally calculated as a percentage of the total transaction amount processed plus a per-transaction fee. The transaction fees collected are recognized as revenue on a gross basis. Financial technology solutions revenue also includes fees earned from marketing and servicing working capital loans to our customers through Toast Capital that are originated by a third-party bank. In these arrangements, Toast Capitals bank partner originates all loans, and Toast Capital then services the loans using Toasts payments infrastructure to remit a fixed percentage of daily sales until the loan is paid back. Toast Capital is responsible for purchasing from our bank partner loans in default (or that have been or are scheduled to be charged off) until the aggregate principal amount of such purchased loans equals 15% of the total originated amount for each quarterly loan cohort. Toast Capital earns a servicing fee as well as a credit performance fee that is tied to the portfolio performance. 23 Table of Contents Hardware. We generate hardware revenue from the sale of terminals, tablets, handhelds, and related devices and accessories, net of estimated returns. Professional services. We generate professional services revenue from fees charged to customers for installation services, including business process mapping, configuration, and training. These services can be delivered on-site, remotely, or on a self-guided basis. Costs of Revenue Costs of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including, but not limited to, employee-related costs for customer support and certain operational roles as well as allocated overhead. Employee-related costs consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. Allocated overhead includes certain facilities costs, depreciation expense, and amortization costs associated with internally developed software. Below are descriptions of the types of costs classified within each component of costs of revenue: Subscription services. Subscription services costs consist of customer support and associated employee-related costs, hosting costs, professional services costs, other software costs to support our cloud-based platform, and amortization costs associated with internally developed software. Financial technology solutions. Financial technology solutions costs consist primarily of transaction-based costs, which are mostly fees and costs paid to issuers and card networks as well as other related fees associated with third-party payment processors and fraud management. Hardware. Hardware costs consist of raw materials and the cost of manufacturing and shipping hardware sold to customers, including terminals, tablets, handhelds, and related devices and accessories. Included in the manufacturing and shipping costs are employee-related costs, professional services costs, and allocated overhead associated with our supply chain and fulfillment teams. Professional services. Professional services costs consist primarily of employee-related costs and allocated overhead associated with our onboarding team, along with fees paid to third-party service providers engaged to perform installations and other services. Amortization of acquired intangible assets.Amortization of acquired intangible assets costs is related to technologies acquired through acquisitions that have the capability of producing revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of the following: Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs incurred to acquire new customers and increase product adoption across our existing customer base. Marketing expenses also include fees incurred to generate demand through various advertising channels. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs associated with improvements to our platform and the development of new product offerings, as well as allocated overhead and expenses associated with the use of third-party software directly related to development of our products and services. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of expenses related to management and administrative functions, including finance, legal, human resources, and information technology. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to fees paid for certain professional services, including legal, information technology, and tax and accounting services, as well as bad debt and credit related expenses. 24 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Our other income and expenses consist of the following: Interest income, net. Consists of interest earned from cash held in money market accounts and interest earned on our marketable securities. Change in fair value of warrant liability. Represents the change in the fair value of our warrant liability related to warrants issued to purchase shares of our common stock. The warrant liability is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date which could have a significant effect on other income (expense) and our results of operations during each period. The fair value is based on the trading price of our Class A common stock and other relevant valuation inputs, including estimated volatility of our Class A common stock, strike price, relevant risk-free interest rates, and time to expiration of the warrants, and may fluctuate in subsequent periods. Other income (expense), net. Represents foreign currency transaction gains and losses, changes in fair value of our marketable securities, refundable research and development tax credits, and other items. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Income tax benefit (expense). Consists of U.S. federal and state income tax as well as international taxes in various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate fluctuates from period to period due to changes in the mix of income and losses in jurisdictions with a wide range of tax rates, the effect of acquisitions, changes resulting from the amount of recorded valuation allowance, and permanent differences between U.S. GAAP and local tax laws. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % Subscription services $ 121 $ 76 $ 45 59 % $ 227 $ 139 $ 88 63 % Financial technology solutions 808 562 246 44 % 1,482 1,000 482 48 % Hardware 41 30 11 37 % 72 59 13 22 % Professional services 8 7 1 14 % 16 12 4 33 % Total revenue $ 978 $ 675 $ 303 45 % $ 1,797 $ 1,210 $ 587 49 % The increase in subscription services revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was attributed to growth in restaurant Locations on the Toast platform and the continued increase in products adopted by customers. The increase in financial technology solutions revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was attributable to the increase in restaurant Locations on the Toast platform and the increase in GPV per Toast Processing Location. The increase in hardware revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was largely driven by the growth in new restaurant locations and higher hardware sales to existing restaurant locations. Costs of Revenue Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % Subscription services $ 39 $ 27 $ 12 44 % $ 75 $ 51 $ 24 47 % Financial technology solutions 631 448 183 41 % 1,155 796 359 45 % Hardware 67 61 6 10 % 123 113 10 9 % Professional services 32 25 7 28 % 60 46 14 30 % Amortization of acquired technology and customer assets 1 1 % 2 2 % Total costs of revenue $ 770 $ 562 $ 208 37 % $ 1,415 $ 1,008 $ 407 40 % The increase in subscription services costs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was attributable to an increase in employee-related costs due to higher headcount. The increase in financial technology solutions costs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was due to an increase in GPV. The increase in hardware costs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was attributable to higher shipment volume as a result of growth in restaurant Locations, partially offset by lower freight costs. We utilize our hardware and related professional services as customer acquisition tools and price them competitively to reduce barriers to entry for new restaurant locations. 26 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 100 $ 77 $ 23 30 % $ 199 $ 148 $ 51 34 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase in employee-related costs of $20 million and $43 million, respectively. Research and Development Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % Research and development $ 92 $ 67 $ 25 37 % $ 177 $ 129 $ 48 37 % The increase in research and development expenses during the three and six months June 30, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase in employee-related costs of $22 million and $41 million, respectively. General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % General and administrative $ 96 $ 68 $ 28 41 % $ 179 $ 125 $ 54 43 % The increase in general and administrative expenses during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase in bad debt and credit related expenses of $10 million and $22 million, respectively, driven by growth in our Toast Capital product offering, an increase in employee-related costs of $8 million and $20 million, respectively, and $12 million, net in lease termination expenses related to our corporate headquarters in Boston, MA. Interest Income, Net Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % Interest income, net $ 9 $ 1 $ 8 N/M $ 17 $ 1 $ 16 N/M N/M - Not meaningful The increase in interest income, net during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was attributable to higher interest income generated on our investments in marketable securities. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % 2023 2022 Amount % Change in fair value of warrant liability $ (26) $ 44 $ (70) (159) % $ (23) $ 123 $ (146) (119) % The change in fair value of warrant liability for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 was attributable to an increase in the value of the common stock underlying the outstanding warrants at the end of period relative to the value of the common stock at the beginning of the period. 27 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use certain non-GAAP financial measures described below to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP and to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered substitutes for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision-making. We are presenting these non-GAAP metrics to provide investors insight to the information used by our management to evaluate our business and financial performance. We believe that these measures provide investors increased comparability of our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Net Loss (GAAP) and Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net (loss) income, adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, net, other income (expense) net, acquisition expenses, fair value adjustments on warrant liabilities, expenses related to early termination of leases (which includes associated asset impairments), charitable contribution stock-based expense, and income taxes, as applicable. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful for investors in comparing our financial performance to other companies and from period to period. Adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation and amortization, interest expense, and interest income, which can vary substantially from company to company depending on their financing and capital structures and the method by which their assets were acquired. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the impact of certain items that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business. Adjusted EBITDA also has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. For example, although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new asset acquisitions. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. Adjusted EBITDA also does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces the cash available to us; or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us. The expenses and other items which are excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA when they report their financial results. 28 Table of Contents The following table reflects the reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss $ (98) $ (54) $ (179) $ (77) Stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax 74 59 141 112 Depreciation and amortization 8 6 14 12 Interest income, net (9) (1) (17) (1) Acquisition expenses 1 1 1 Change in fair value of warrant liability 26 (44) 23 (123) Termination of leases 13 13 (2) Provision for income taxes 1 1 Adjusted EBITDA $ 15 $ (33) $ (3) $ (78) Net Cash Used in Operating Activities (GAAP) and Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP) Free cash flow is defined as net cash (used in) provided by operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of internal-use software costs. We believe that free cash flow is a meaningful indicator of liquidity that provides information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from operations and used for purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of software costs, and investments in our business. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently, which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. In addition, free cash flow does not reflect mandatory debt service and other non-discretionary expenditures that are required to be made under contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to the net cash used in operating activities for each of the periods presented: Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (5) $ (68) Purchases of property and equipment (4) (7) Capitalized software (17) (5) Free cash flow $ (26) $ (80) 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of June 30, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $990 million, excluding cash held on behalf of customers of $91 million, restricted cash of $43 million, and $330 million available under our 2021 Facility (as defined herein). Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase, other than those held for sale in the ordinary course of business. Marketable securities consisted of commercial paper, certificates of deposit, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency securities, U.S. Treasury securities, and asset-backed securities. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with our available borrowing capacity under our 2021 Facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for at least the next 12 months, including planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions, and investment commitments that we may enter into from time to time. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (5) $ (68) Net cash used in investing activities (54) (42) Net cash provided by financing activities 46 42 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (13) $ (68) Operating Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $5 million as a result of our net loss for the period, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred costs, credit loss expenses, change in fair value of the warrant liability, asset impairments, depreciation and amortization, as well as a use of cash for working capital. The change in working capital was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable and deferred costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $68 million as a result of our net loss for the period, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as the change in fair value of the warrant liability, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred costs, depreciation and amortization as well as a use of cash for working capital. The change in working capital was primarily driven by higher deferred costs and inventory, partially offset by higher accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Investing Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2023, cash used in investing activities was $54 million, which consisted of cash paid for purchases of marketable securities, cash outflows for capitalized software, and cash paid for an acquisition, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $42 million, which consisted of cash paid for marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and cash outflows for capitalized software, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities. 30 Table of Contents Financing Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was $46 million, which consisted primarily of increase in customer funds obligations, proceeds from the exercise of stock options, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon ESPP purchase. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $42 million, which consisted primarily of increase in customer funds obligations and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Credit Facilities On March 2, 2023 we entered into an amendment to our revolving credit facility agreement, or 2021 Facility, to replace LIBOR with SOFR. The 2021 Facility is subject to a minimum liquidity covenant of $250 million. As of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, no amount were drawn or outstanding under the 2021 Facility which had $330 million available as of each period end. In addition, as of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, there were also $8 million in letters of credit outstanding. Additional information regarding our credit facilities is provided in this Quarterly Report in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Debt. Contractual Obligations and Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At June 30, 2023, other than for the changes disclosed in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, or Results of Operations, there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in our 2022 Annual Report. Please refer to Note 5, Lessee Arrangements and Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of our lease and purchase commitments. Please refer to Note 4, Loan Servicing Activities and Acquired Loans Receivable, Net to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of credit exposure related to our financial guarantees as of June 30, 2023.