Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and the related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Toast is a cloud-based, all-in-one digital technology platform purpose-built for the entire restaurant community. Our platform provides a comprehensive suite of SaaS products, financial technology solutions, including integrated payment processing, restaurant-grade hardware, and a broad ecosystem of third-party partners. We serve as the restaurant operating system, connecting front of house and back of house operations across dine-in, takeout, and delivery channels. As of March 31, 2023, approximately 85,000 restaurant locations, processing approximately $101 billion of gross payment volume in the trailing 12 months on the Toast platform, partnered with Toast to optimize operations, increase sales, engage guests, and maintain happy employees. By enabling these capabilities through a single, integrated platform, Toast improves experiences for stakeholders across the restaurant ecosystem: Restaurant operators. We arm restaurants with a wide range of products and capabilities to address their specific needs regardless of size, location, or business model. As a result, restaurants using Toast often see higher sales and greater operational efficiency. Guests. We are laser focused on helping our customers deliver memorable guest experiences at scale. Guests can place orders easily, safely, and accurately across web, mobile, and in-person channels for dine-in, takeout, or delivery. In addition, our platform empowers restaurants to utilize their guest data to deliver targeted and personalized experiences with loyalty programs and marketing solutions. Employees. Our easy-to-learn and easy-to-use technology improves the experience of restaurant employees across Toast customers. Employees are core to delivering great hospitality, and it is critical for restaurants to engage and retain employees in an increasingly competitive labor market. Our products enable new employees to learn quickly through guided workflows, facilitate faster table turns and safer, streamlined operations, and provide greater transparency around, and timely access to, employees wages. Suppliers. Our supplier management and accounting products give restaurants the tools to optimize their back-office operations. Managing supplier networks and procurement, and having high visibility into costs, are critical to efficiently operating a restaurant. Our products enable customers to automate manual billing processes, manage inventory, and improve profitability with real-time cost insights on menu items. The seamless integration across our end-to-end platform gives our customers the rich data and reporting capabilities to efficiently operate and manage their restaurants. The benefits to all stakeholders using the Toast platform create a powerful, virtuous cycle that amplifies our impact on restaurants. Guest satisfaction generates loyalty to restaurants, driving repeat sales, word-of-mouth referrals, and larger checks and tips. This promotes employee satisfaction, helping reduce turnover and motivating employees to continue to raise the bar on the guest experience. In addition, our integrated software and payments platform consolidates data on restaurant sales and operations, which enables our reporting and analytics as well as financial technology solutions, such as working capital loans, to further support our customers success. 19 Table of Contents Since our founding, we have translated our love for restaurants into a commitment to innovation and digital transformation for the restaurant industry. As we have expanded our platform, launched new products, and added new partners over time, we have rapidly grown the number of restaurant locations on the Toast platform. Recent Developments in Macroeconomic Environment Global events and macroeconomic conditions such as inflation and its potential impact on consumer spending, rising interest rates, global supply chain issues, and the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted and may continue to impact our business. While our business results remain positive, it is difficult to predict the potential impact these factors may have on our future business results because of the uncertainty they have produced or will produce among consumers and the restaurant industry. Key Business Metrics We use the following key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in billions) 2023 2022 % Growth Gross Payment Volume (GPV)(1) $ 26.7 $ 17.8 50 % As of March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 % Growth Annualized Recurring Run-Rate (ARR) $ 987 $ 637 55 % Gross Payment Volume (GPV)(1) Gross Payment Volume represents the sum of total dollars processed through the Toast payments platform across all restaurant locations in a given period. GPV is a key measure of the scale of our platform, which in turn drives our financial performance. As our customers generate more sales and therefore more GPV, we generally see higher financial technology solutions revenue. _________________ (1) Please note that numbers may not tie due to rounding to the nearest hundred million. 20 Table of Contents Annualized Recurring Run-Rate (ARR) We monitor Annualized Recurring Run-Rate as a key operational measure of the scale of our subscription and payment processing services for both new and existing customers. To calculate this metric, we first calculate recurring run-rate on a monthly basis. Monthly Recurring Run-Rate, or MRR, is measured on the final day of each month for all restaurant locations live on our platform as the sum of (i) our monthly billings of subscription services fees, which we refer to as the subscription component of MRR, and (ii) our in-month adjusted payments services fees, exclusive of estimated transaction-based costs, which we refer to as the payments component of MRR. MRR does not include fees derived from Toast Capital or related costs. MRR is also not burdened by the impact of SaaS credits offered. ARR is determined by taking the sum of (i) twelve times the subscription component of MRR and (ii) four times the trailing-three-month cumulative payments component of MRR. We believe this approach provides an indication of our scale, while also controlling for short-term fluctuations in payments volume. Our ARR may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customers satisfaction with our platform, pricing, competitive offerings, economic conditions, or overall changes in our customers and their guests spending levels. ARR is an operational measure, does not reflect our revenue or gross profit determined in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, and should be viewed independently of, and not combined with or substituted for, our revenue, gross profit, and other financial information determined in accordance with GAAP. Further, ARR is not a forecast of future revenue and investors should not place undue reliance on ARR as an indicator of our future or expected results. Seasonality We experience seasonality in our financial technology solutions revenue, which is largely driven by the level of GPV processed through our platform. For example, customers typically have greater sales during the warmer months, though this effect varies regionally. As a result, our financial technology solutions revenue per location has historically been stronger in the second and third quarters. We believe that financial technology solutions revenue from both existing and potential future products will continue to represent a significant proportion of our overall revenue mix, and seasonality will continue to impact our results of operations. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from four main sources that are further described below: (1) subscription services, (2) financial technology solutions, (3) hardware, and (4) professional services. Our total revenue consists of the following: Subscription services. We generate subscription services revenue from fees charged to customers for access to our software applications, generally over a term ranging from 12 to 36 months. Our subscription services revenue is primarily based on a rate per location, and this rate varies depending on the number of software products purchased, hardware configuration, and employee count at each location. Financial technology solutions. Revenue from financial technology solutions consists primarily of transaction-based fees paid by customers to facilitate their payment transactions, which are generally calculated as a percentage of the total transaction amount processed plus a per-transaction fee. The transaction fees collected are recognized as revenue on a gross basis. Financial technology solutions revenue also includes fees earned from marketing and servicing working capital loans to our customers through Toast Capital that are originated by a third-party bank. In these arrangements, Toast Capitals bank partner originates all loans, and Toast Capital then services the loans using Toasts payments infrastructure to remit a fixed percentage of daily sales until the loan is paid back. Toast Capital is responsible for purchasing from our bank partner loans in default (or that have been or are scheduled to be charged off) until the aggregate principal amount of such purchased loans equals 15% of the total originated amount for each quarterly loan cohort. Toast Capital earns a servicing fee as well as a credit performance fee that is tied to the portfolio performance. Hardware. We generate hardware revenue from the sale of terminals, tablets, handhelds, and related devices and accessories, net of estimated returns. 21 Table of Contents Professional services. We generate professional services revenue from fees charged to customers for installation services, including business process mapping, configuration, and training. These services can be delivered on-site, remotely, or on a self-guided basis. Costs of Revenue Costs of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including, but not limited to, employee-related costs for customer support and certain operational roles as well as allocated overhead. Employee-related costs consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense. Allocated overhead includes certain facilities costs, depreciation expense, and amortization costs associated with internally developed software. Below are descriptions of the types of costs classified within each component of costs of revenue: Subscription services. Subscription services costs consist of customer support and associated employee-related costs, hosting costs, professional services costs, other software costs to support our cloud-based platform, and amortization costs associated with internally developed software. Financial technology solutions. Financial technology solutions costs consist primarily of transaction-based costs, which are mostly fees and costs paid to issuers and card networks as well as other related fees associated with third-party payment processors and fraud management. Hardware. Hardware costs consist of raw materials and the cost of manufacturing and shipping hardware sold to customers, including terminals, tablets, handhelds, and related devices and accessories. Included in the manufacturing and shipping costs are employee-related costs, professional services costs, and allocated overhead associated with our supply chain and fulfillment teams. Professional services. Professional services costs consist primarily of employee-related costs and allocated overhead associated with our onboarding team, along with fees paid to third-party service providers engaged to perform installations and other services. Amortization of acquired intangible assets.Amortization of acquired intangible assets costs is related to technologies acquired through acquisitions that have the capability of producing revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of the following: Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs incurred to acquire new customers and increase product adoption across our existing customer base. Marketing expenses also include fees incurred to generate demand through various advertising channels. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs associated with improvements to our platform and the development of new product offerings, as well as allocated overhead and expenses associated with the use of third-party software directly related to development of our products and services. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of expenses related to management and administrative functions, including finance, legal, human resources, and information technology. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to fees paid for certain professional services, including legal, information technology, and tax and accounting services, as well as bad debt and credit related expenses. Other Income (Expense) Our other income and expenses consist of the following: Interest income (expense), net. Consists of interest earned from cash held in money market accounts and interest earned on our marketable securities. 22 Table of Contents Change in fair value of warrant liability. Represents the change in the fair value of our warrant liability related to warrants issued to purchase shares of our common stock. The warrant liability is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date which could have a significant effect on other income (expense) and our results of operations during each period. The fair value is based on the trading price of our Class A common stock and other relevant valuation inputs, including estimated volatility of our Class A common stock, strike price, relevant risk-free interest rates, and time to expiration of the warrants, and may fluctuate in subsequent periods. Other income (expense), net. Represents foreign currency transaction gains and losses, changes in fair value of our marketable securities, refundable research and development tax credits, and other items. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Income tax benefit (expense). Consists of U.S. federal and state income tax as well as international taxes in various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate fluctuates from period to period due to changes in the mix of income and losses in jurisdictions with a wide range of tax rates, the effect of acquisitions, changes resulting from the amount of recorded valuation allowance, and permanent differences between U.S. GAAP and local tax laws. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Revenue: Subscription services $ 107 $ 63 Financial technology solutions 673 438 Hardware 31 29 Professional services 8 5 Total revenue 819 535 Costs of revenue: Subscription services 36 25 Financial technology solutions 523 347 Hardware 57 52 Professional services 28 21 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 1 1 Total costs of revenue(1) 645 446 Gross profit 174 89 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 99 71 Research and development(1) 85 62 General and administrative(1) 82 57 Total operating expenses 266 190 Loss from operations (92) (101) Other income (expense): Interest income (expense), net 8 Change in fair value of warrant liability 3 79 Other income (expense), net (1) Loss before provision for income taxes (81) (23) Provision for income taxes Net loss $ (81) $ (23) _________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 as follows: Stock-Based Compensation Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Costs of revenue $ 10 $ 8 Sales and marketing 13 13 Research and development 21 16 General and administrative 19 16 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 63 $ 53 24 Table of Contents Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % Subscription services $ 107 $ 63 $ 44 70 % Financial technology solutions 673 438 235 54 % Hardware 31 29 2 7 % Professional services 8 5 3 60 % Total revenue $ 819 $ 535 $ 284 53 % The increase in subscription services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributed to growth in live restaurant locations on the Toast platform and the continued increase in products adopted by customers. The increase in financial technology solutions revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to the increase in live restaurant locations on the Toast platform and the increase in GPV per processing location, which was due to both higher consumer demand and higher average transaction values. The increase in hardware revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was largely driven by the growth in new restaurant locations and upsells to existing restaurant locations. The increase in professional services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily driven by the increase in new live restaurant locations. Costs of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % Subscription services $ 36 $ 25 $ 11 44 % Financial technology solutions 523 347 176 51 % Hardware 57 52 5 10 % Professional services 28 21 7 33 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 1 1 % Total costs of revenue $ 645 $ 446 $ 199 45 % The increase in subscription services costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase in employee-related costs and contractor services. Higher employee-related costs were driven primarily by increased employee headcount. The increase in financial technology solutions costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was due to an increase in GPV. The increase in hardware costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to higher shipment volume as a result of growth in live restaurant locations, partially offset by lower freight costs. The increase in professional services costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. We utilize our hardware and related professional services as customer acquisition tools and price them competitively to reduce barriers to entry for new restaurant locations. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 99 $ 71 $ 28 39 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to a $23 million increase in employee-related costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % Research and development $ 85 $ 62 $ 23 37 % The increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to a $19 million increase in employee-related costs, of which $5 million was stock-based compensation. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % General and administrative $ 82 $ 57 $ 25 44 % The increase in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to a $12 million increase in bad debt and credit related expenses, mainly due to growth in our Toast Capital product offering, and an increase of employee-related costs of $12 million, of which $3 million was stock-based compensation. Interest Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % Interest income (expense), net $ 8 $ $ 8 100 % The increase in interest income (expense), net during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was attributable to higher interest income generated on our investments in marketable securities. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Amount % Change in fair value of warrant liability $ 3 $ 79 $ (76) (96) % Change in fair value of warrant liability for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to a smaller decrease in the value of common stock underlying the outstanding warrants in the three months ended March 31, 2023 relative to the decrease in value of the common stock during the same period in the prior year. 26 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use certain non-GAAP financial measures described below to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP and to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered substitutes for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision-making. We are presenting these non-GAAP metrics to provide investors insight to the information used by our management to evaluate our business and financial performance. We believe that these measures provide investors increased comparability of our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Net Loss (GAAP) and Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest income (expense), net, other income (expense) net, acquisition expenses, fair value adjustments on warrant liabilities, expenses related to early termination of leases, charitable contribution stock-based expense, and income taxes, as applicable. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful for investors in comparing our financial performance to other companies and from period to period. Adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation and amortization, interest expense, and interest income, which can vary substantially from company to company depending on their financing and capital structures and the method by which their assets were acquired. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the impact of certain items that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business. Adjusted EBITDA also has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. For example, although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new asset acquisitions. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. Adjusted EBITDA also does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces the cash available to us; or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us. The expenses and other items which are excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA when they report their financial results. 27 Table of Contents The following table reflects the reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net loss $ (81) $ (23) Stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax 68 53 Depreciation and amortization 6 6 Interest (income) expense, net (8) Change in fair value of warrant liability (3) (79) Acquisition expenses 1 Termination of leases (2) Adjusted EBITDA $ (17) $ (45) Net Cash Used in Operating Activities (GAAP) and Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP) Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of internal-use software costs. We believe that free cash flow is a meaningful indicator of liquidity that provides information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from operations and used for purchases of property and equipment, capitalization of software costs, and investments in our business. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently, which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. In addition, free cash flow does not reflect mandatory debt service and other non-discretionary expenditures that are required to be made under contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to the net cash used in operating activities for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (55) $ (47) Purchases of property and equipment (2) (2) Capitalized software (8) (1) Free cash flow $ (65) $ (50) 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $950 million, excluding cash held on behalf of customers of $99 million, restricted cash of $36 million, and $330 million available under our 2021 Facility (as defined herein). Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase, other than those held for sale in the ordinary course of business. Marketable securities consisted of commercial paper, certificates of deposit, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency securities, U.S. Treasury securities, and asset-backed securities. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with our available borrowing capacity under our 2021 Facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for at least the next 12 months, including planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions, and investment commitments that we may enter into from time to time. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (55) $ (47) Net cash used in investing activities (42) (3) Net cash provided by financing activities 48 29 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (49) $ (21) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $55 million as a result of our net loss for the period, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as stock-based compensation, credit loss expenses, depreciation, and amortization, as well as a use of cash for working capital. The change in working capital was primarily driven by higher deferred costs and accounts receivable and lower accrued expenses and other current liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $47 million as a result of our net loss for the period, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as the change in fair value of warrant liabilities, stock-based compensation, depreciation, and amortization as well as a use of cash for working capital. The change in working capital was primarily driven by higher deferred costs and prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by higher accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities was $42 million, which consisted of cash paid for purchases of marketable securities and cash paid for an acquisition, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $3 million, which consisted of cash paid for marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and cash outflows for capitalized software, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities. 29 Table of Contents Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was $48 million, which consisted primarily of increase in customer funds obligations, proceeds from the exercise of stock options, and issuance of common stock upon ESPP purchase. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $29 million, which consisted primarily of increase in customer funds obligations and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Credit Facilities On March 2, 2023 we entered into an amendment to our revolving credit facility agreement, or 2021 Facility, to replace LIBOR with SOFR. Under the terms of the amendment, interest on loans will be determined based on loan type and accrue at an annual rate, as defined in the agreement, of 1.50% per annum; or 0.5% per annum plus the highest of: (i) the Prime Rate, (ii) the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Rate plus 0.5%, or (iii) the Adjusted SOFR based upon loan duration plus 1.00%. The 2021 Facility is subject to a minimum liquidity covenant of $250 million. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, no amount were drawn or outstanding under the 2021 Facility which had $330 million available as of each period end. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, there were $8 million letters of credit outstanding. Contractual Obligations and Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2023, there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in our 2022 Annual Report. Please refer to Note 6, Lessee Arrangements and Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of our lease and purchase commitments. Please refer to Note 5, Loan Servicing Activities and Acquired Loans Receivable, Net to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of credit exposure related to our financial guarantees as of March 31, 2023. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet date, as well as reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our most significant estimates and judgments are related to revenue recognition, business combinations and other acquired intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to those included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to the sections titled Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 in the Notes to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1, Financial Statements for more information. 30 Table of Contents