Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and the related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, if applicable. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Toast is a cloud-based, all-in-one digital technology platform purpose-built for the entire restaurant community. We provide a comprehensive platform of software-as-a-service, or SaaS, products and financial technology solutions, including integrated payment processing, restaurant-grade hardware, and a broad ecosystem of third-party partners. We serve as the restaurant operating system, connecting front of house and back of house operations across service models including dine-in, takeout, delivery, catering, and retail. We define a live location, or Location, as a unique location that has used Toast Point of Sale, or POS, to record transaction volumes above a minimum threshold, and has not been marked as a churned location as of the date of determination. A Location can use Toast payment services, which we refer to as a Toast Processing Location, or for select enterprise customers, not use Toasts payment services, which we refer to as a Non-Toast Processing Location. Customers of legacy solutions provided by companies that we have acquired that do not use Toast POS, are not included in our Location count. As of March 31, 2025, approximately 140,000 Locations, an increase of 25% year over year, processing approximately $167 billion of gross payment volume in the trailing 12 months, partnered with Toast to optimize operations, increase sales, engage guests, and maintain happy employees. Seasonality and Other Factors We experience seasonality in our financial technology solutions revenue, which is largely driven by the level of Gross Payment Volume, or GPV, processed through our platform. Moreover, our performance may be impacted by global financial, economic, and political events. For example, customers typically have greater sales during the warmer months, though this effect varies regionally, and customer sales can be impacted by seasonal needs of our customers (which may also impact the total number of Toast Processing Locations in such a period that contributes to our GPV). As a result, our financial technology solutions revenue per Toast Processing Location has historically been stronger in the second and third quarters. We believe that financial technology solutions revenue from both existing and potential future products will continue to represent a significant proportion of our overall revenue mix, and seasonality will continue to impact our results of operations. Our performance may also be impacted by geopolitical events, such as tariffs, which may influence consumer spending or restaurant operations. There is uncertainty as to when specific tariffs may go into effect and the impact higher tariffs may have on consumer demand or on our business. For further discussion of such potential impacts, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. 17 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We use the following key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in billions) 2025 2024 % Growth Gross Payment Volume (GPV) $ 42.2 $ 34.7 22 % As of March 31, (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 % Growth Annualized Recurring Run-Rate (ARR) $ 1,713 $ 1,305 31 % Gross Payment Volume (GPV) Gross Payment Volume represents the sum of total dollars processed through the Toast payments platform across Toast Processing Locations in a given period. GPV is a key measure of the scale of our platform, which in turn drives our financial performance. As our customers generate more sales and therefore more GPV, we generally see higher financial technology solutions revenue. Annualized Recurring Run-Rate (ARR) We monitor Annualized Recurring Run-Rate as a key operational measure of the scale of our subscription and payment processing services for both new and existing customers. To calculate this metric, we first calculate recurring run-rate on a monthly basis. Monthly Recurring Run-Rate, or MRR, is measured on the final day of each month as the sum of (i) our monthly billings of subscription services fees, which we refer to as the subscription component of MRR, and (ii) our in-month adjusted payments services fees, exclusive of estimated transaction-based costs, which we refer to as the payments component of MRR. MRR does not include fees derived from Toast Capital or related costs. MRR is also not burdened by the impact of SaaS credits offered. The MRR calculation includes all locations on the Toast platform and locations on legacy solutions, which have a negligible impact on ARR. ARR is determined by taking the sum of (i) twelve times the subscription component of MRR and (ii) four times the trailing-three-month cumulative payments component of MRR. We believe this approach provides an indication of our scale, while also controlling for short-term fluctuations in payments volume. Our ARR may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customers satisfaction with our platform, pricing, competitive offerings, economic conditions, or overall changes in our customers and their guests spending levels. ARR is an operational measure, does not reflect our revenue or gross profit determined in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, and should be viewed independently of, and not combined with or substituted for, our revenue, gross profit, and other financial information determined in accordance with GAAP. Further, ARR is not a forecast of future revenue and investors should not place undue reliance on ARR as an indicator of our future or expected results. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount % Subscription services $ 209 $ 151 $ 58 38 % Financial technology solutions 1,082 873 209 24 % Hardware and professional services 46 51 (5) (10) % Total revenue $ 1,337 $ 1,075 $ 262 24 % The increase in subscription services revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was attributable to growth in Locations on the Toast platform and the continued increase in product adoption. The increase in financial technology solutions revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was attributable to the increase in Locations on the Toast platform. Costs of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount % Subscription services $ 66 $ 50 $ 16 32 % Financial technology solutions 831 683 148 22 % Hardware and professional services 93 92 1 1 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 1 1 % Total costs of revenue $ 991 $ 826 $ 165 20 % The increase in subscription services costs during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily driven by a $9 million increase in amortization of capitalized software and a $5 million increase in employee-related costs. The increase in financial technology solutions costs during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was due to an increase in GPV. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 133 $ 107 $ 26 24 % Research and development 84 83 1 1 % General and administrative 79 74 5 7 % Restructuring expenses 7 41 (34) (83) % Total operating expenses 303 305 (2) (1) % The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily driven by a $14 million increase in employee-related costs, including an increase in deferred contract acquisition cost amortization, and a $10 million increase in marketing expenses. Research and development and general and administrative expenses both remained approximately flat during the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. 19 Table of Contents The decrease in restructuring expenses during three months ended March 31, 2025 was driven by significant restructuring and restructuring-related expenses incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as part of the February 2024 Restructuring Plan. See Note 8 included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Restructuring Plan. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability Three Months Ended March 31, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount % Change in fair value of warrant liability $ 3 $ (36) $ 39 108 % The change in fair value of warrant liability for the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was driven by a combination of decreased stock prices in the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to increased stock prices in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and a reduction of outstanding warrants from repurchase and exercises in the year ended December 31, 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use certain non-GAAP financial measures described below to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP and to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered substitutes for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision-making. We are presenting these non-GAAP metrics to provide investors insight into the information used by our management to evaluate our business and financial performance. We believe that these measures provide investors increased comparability of our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Net Income (Loss) (GAAP) and Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, net, income taxes and certain other items that are not considered to reflect our operating activities and performance within the ordinary course of business, such as restructuring and restructuring-related expenses, acquisition expenses, fair value adjustments on warrant liabilities, gain on warrant extinguishments, expenses related to early termination of leases (which includes associated asset impairments), and stock-based charitable contribution expense, as applicable. We have provided below a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA. 20 Table of Contents We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful for investors in comparing our financial performance to other companies and from period to period. Adjusted EBITDA is widely used by investors and securities analysts to measure a companys operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation and amortization, interest expense, and interest income, which can vary substantially from company to company depending on their financing and capital structures and the method by which their assets were acquired. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the impact of certain items that may obscure trends in the underlying performance of our business. Adjusted EBITDA also has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. For example, although depreciation expense is a non-cash charge, the assets being depreciated may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new asset acquisitions. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. Adjusted EBITDA also does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, which reduces the cash available to us; or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us. The expenses and other items that are excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA when they report their financial results. The following table reflects the reconciliation of net income(loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2025 2024 Net income (loss) $ 56 $ (83) Stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax 64 62 Depreciation and amortization 19 10 Interest income, net (12) (10) Change in fair value of warrant liability (3) 36 Restructuring and restructuring-related expenses(1) 7 41 Income tax expense 2 1 Adjusted EBITDA $ 133 $ 57 (1) Restructuring and restructuring-related expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 include $4 million of severance benefits and $3 million of stock-based compensation expense. Restructuring and restructuring-related expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 include $30 million of severance benefits, $10 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $1 million of accelerated depreciation related to facilities. 21 Table of Contents Subscription Services and Financial Technology Solutions Gross Profit (GAAP) and Non-GAAP Subscription Services and Financial Technology Solutions Gross Profit (Non-GAAP) Non-GAAP Subscription Services and Financial Technology Solutions Gross Profit is defined as subscription services gross profit and financial technology solutions gross profit, adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax expense, and depreciation and amortization expense. We believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to view the resulting figures excluding the aforementioned non-cash charges because the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and such amounts vary substantially from company to company depending on their financing and capital structures and the method by which their assets were acquired. We have provided below a reconciliation of Subscription Services and Financial Technology Solutions Gross Profit, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Non-GAAP Subscription Services and Financial Technology Solutions Gross Profit. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2025 2024 Revenue: Subscription services $ 209 $ 151 Financial technology solutions 1,082 873 Costs of Revenue: Subscription services 66 50 Financial technology solutions 831 683 Subscription services and financial technology solutions gross profit (GAAP) $ 394 $ 291 Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2025 2024 Subscription services and financial technology solutions gross profit (GAAP) $ 394 $ 291 Stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax 5 5 Depreciation and amortization 16 7 Non-GAAP subscription services and financial technology solutions gross profit (Non-GAAP) $ 415 $ 303 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities (GAAP) and Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP) Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of internal-use software costs (collectively referred to as capital expenditures). We believe that free cash flow is a meaningful indicator of our sources of liquidity and capital requirements that provides information to management and investors in evaluating the cash flow trends of our business. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently, which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. In addition, free cash flow does not reflect mandatory debt service and other non-discretionary expenditures that are required to be made under contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. 22 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities to free cash flow for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 79 $ (20) Capital expenditures (10) (13) Free cash flow $ 69 $ (33) Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We also have access to external sources of liquidity through a credit facility as further described below. The following tables present selected financial information related to our liquidity: (in millions) March 31, 2025 (1) December 31, 2024 (2) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,005 $ 903 Marketable securities 484 514 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 1,489 $ 1,417 Available credit facility $ 326 $ 325 Total $ 1,815 $ 1,742 (1) Excludes $187 million of cash held on behalf of customers and $67 million of restricted cash. (2) Excludes $123 million of cash held on behalf of customers and $59 million of restricted cash. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 79 $ (20) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 22 (29) Net cash provided by financing activities 73 73 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, cash held on behalf of customers and restricted cash $ 174 $ 24 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities The net increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities of $71 million (which excludes changes in the balance of restricted cash), cash provided by investing activities of $22 million, and an increase of $64 million in cash held on behalf of customers. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period last year, was primarily driven by net income of $56 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to a net loss of $83 million during the same period last year. This was partially offset by a decrease in non-cash adjustments primarily attributable to the movement of the change in fair value of our warrant liability. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period last year, was primarily driven by net cash inflows from marketable securities as compared to net cash outflows from marketable securities during the same period last year. We do not anticipate any material changes, or material changes in trends, related to our net working capital requirements, liquidity or cash flows in the near term, other than for items disclosed within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 23 Table of Contents Debt During 2021 we entered into a senior secured credit facility, or the 2021 Facility, which we subsequently amended on March 2, 2023, to replace the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR. The 2021 Facility is subject to a minimum liquidity covenant of $250 million, subject to certain additional customary restrictive covenants in connection with the February 2024 share repurchase program. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of March 31, 2025. As of March 31, 2025, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2021 Facility and outstanding letters of credit totaled $4 million. As of March 31, 2025, our total available borrowing capacity under the 2021 Facility was $326 million. On May 6, 2025, we amended and restated our 2021 Facility to increase the available revolving commitments from $330.0 million to $350.0 million and to extend the term of the 2021 Facility to May 6, 2030. For further information, please refer to the description of this amendment and restatement included in section (a) of Part II, Item 5, Other Information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Share Repurchase Program In February 2024, we announced the authorization of a share repurchase program for the repurchase of shares of our Class A common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $250 million. The repurchase program has no expiration date, does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of our Class A common stock, and may be suspended at any time at our discretion. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased may depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and alternative investment opportunities. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repurchased approximately 0.5 million shares of our Class A common stock for an aggregate amount of $17 million. Dilution We calculate our fully diluted share count on an unweighted basis taking our total outstanding share count in addition to unexercised stock options, unvested restricted stock units, shares reserved for charitable donations and other securities that can be converted to common stock, such as our warrants to purchase common stock. As of March 31, 2025, our fully diluted share count was as follows: (shares, in millions) March 31, 2025 (1) Class A and B common stock issued and outstanding 577 Options to purchase Class A common stock and Class B common stock 28 Unvested restricted stock units 22 Warrants to purchase Class B common stock 1 Shares reserved for charitable donations 4 Total fully diluted share count 632 (1) Share amounts presented above do not give effect to potential repurchases of common stock under the treasury stock method. For further information see Note 7, Stockholders Equity" and Note 10, Net Income (Loss) Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Capital Requirements Expected working and other capital requirements are described in our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. At March 31, 2025, other than for the changes disclosed in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Quarterly Report, there have been no other material changes to our expected working and other capital requirements described in our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with our available borrowing capacity under our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for at least the next 12 months, including planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions, and investment commitments that we may enter into from time to time. 24 Table of Contents