Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as in other documents that we may file with the SEC, all of which you should review carefully. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these disclaimers. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business References in this document to the Company, Verb, we, us, or our are intended to mean Verb Technology Company, Inc., individually, or as the context requires, collectively with its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Our business is currently comprised of three distinct, yet complimentary business units, all three of which are currently operating and generating revenue. The first business unit is MARKET.live focused on interactive video-based social commerce. Our MARKET.live platform is a multi-vendor, livestream social shopping destination leveraging the convergence of ecommerce and entertainment. Brands, retailers and creators that join MARKET.live have the ability to broadcast livestream shopping events simultaneously on numerous social media channels, including TikTok, YouTube, LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, Twitch, as well as on MARKET.live, reaching exponentially larger audiences. The Company has developed and deployed technology integrations with META, TikTok, and Pinterest, among many others. For example, the Meta integration created a seamless, native, friction-free checkout process for Facebook and Instagram users to purchase MARKET.live vendors products within each of those popular apps. This integration allows Facebook and Instagram users to browse products featured in MARKET.live shoppable videos, place products in a native shopping cart and checkout all without leaving Facebook or Instagram. Our TikTok technology integration allows shoppers watching a MARKET.live stream on TikTok to stay on TikTok and check out through TikTok, eliminating the friction or reluctance of TikTok users to leave their TikTok feed in order to complete their purchase. Our technology integration allows the purchase data to flow back through MARKET.live and to the individual vendors and stores on MARKET.live seamlessly for fulfillment of the orders. Last year we announced an expanded strategic relationship with TikTok evidenced by a formal partnership with TikTok Shop pursuant to which MARKET.live became a service provider for TikTok Shop and officially designated as a TikTok Shop Partner (TSP). Under the terms of the partnership, TikTok Shop refers consumer brands, retailers, influencers and affiliates leads to MARKET.live for a menu of MARKET.live contract-based recurring fee revenue services that include, among other things, assistance in onboarding to TikTok Shop and establishing a TikTok store, hosting training sessions and webinars for prospective TikTok Shop sellers, full creative services including content creation and full remote and in-studio production services, host/influencer casting and management, TikTok Shop maintenance and enhancements for existing TikTok clients stores. The same services are currently provided to consumer brands that contact us directly or through several brand agencies with which we maintain affiliate relationships. On March 4, 2025, we announced the execution of a binding term sheet to acquire LyveCom, an artificial intelligence (AI) driven video commerce platform. The transaction is subject to certain terms and conditions, including completion of an audit of Lyvecoms financial statements, which terms and conditions are set forth in detail in the Form 8-K filed on March 4, 2025, and set forth in the Recent Developments section in this Form 10-K. While the transaction is expected to close early this summer, if not sooner, Phase 1 of the integration of LyveComs technology is complete and the new, updated version of the MARKET.live was officially launched on March 4, 2025. This technology integration now allows our brand and merchant customers and clients to deliver an omnichannel livestream shopping experience to their own customers. Brands and merchants will not only engage their clients and customers on the newly updated and refreshed MARKET.live site, but also seamlessly across their own websites, mobile apps, and social platforms, all while leveraging MARKET.lives new AI-powered video content automation and personalized shopping experiences. 1 This proprietary technology embeds livestreams and shoppable videos directly onto merchant websites without impact on site speed, while simultaneously aggregating and repurposing content from TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube into interactive shopping experiences, allowing brands to engage customers without constant content production. Other new features and functionality now available through MARKET.live include: One-Click Simulcasting: Instantly scale the broadcast of live shopping events across MARKET.live, TikTok Shop, Shopifys Shop App, and other social sites, including the brand or merchants own e-commerce sites, maximizing audience reach and engagement, while maintaining checkout and unified inventory management and control across all of the brands or merchants social sites and platforms. AI-Driven Video Commerce: Advanced AI capabilities will power real-time user-generated-content creation, automated video content repurposing, and AI-powered virtual live shopping hosts. Frictionless Merchant Integration: Frictionless, self-serve onboarding for merchants, enabling millions of Shopify merchants to adopt live and shoppable video with a simple 3-click integration, making livestream shopping capabilities more accessible and useable than ever. New Strategic Partnerships: New and expanded strategic partnerships with Tapcart, Shopify Shop App, Klaviyo, Recharge, and agency networks will expand MARKET.lives footprint into mobile commerce and high-growth DTC brands. Real-Time Data & Analytics: An intelligent analytics hub will provide in-depth insights into shopper behavior, enabling merchants to refine strategies and boost conversions. The second business unit is GO FUND YOURSELF!, an interactive social crowd funding platform for public and private companies seeking broad-based exposure across numerous social media channels for their crowd-funded Regulation CF and Regulation A offerings. The platform combines an interactive reality TV show that has been described as a combination of Shark Tank and Kickstarter with MARKET.lives back-end capabilities allowing viewers to tap or scan onscreen icons and QR codes to facilitate an investment, in near real time, as they watch companies presenting before the Shows panel of Titans. Presenting companies that sell consumer products are able to offer their products directly to viewers during the show in near real time through the same onscreen technology. The Show airs weekly on CheddarTV, available on most cable operators, prime time at 7pm EST. The Go Fund Yourself business unit generates revenue from cash fees we charge to issuers to appear on the show and for marketing, ad, and content creation and distribution services. For those issuers that sell products during each airing of the show through our platform, we charge a fee up to 25% of the gross sales revenue for all products sold. The Shows expert panel of Titans include rotating celebrity guest Titans from the worlds of business, sports, and entertainment, such as NFL Hall of Fame running back Marshall Faulk, among many others, as well as the recurring panel of Titans that include David Meltzer Chairman of the Napoleon Hill Institute and Former CEO of the Leigh Steinberg Sports & Entertainment agency; Jayson Waller thought leader, CEO of multiple multi-million-dollar companies, and host of the popular Jayson Waller Unleashed Podcast; and Rory J. Cutaia the Shows creator and the Founder, Chairman and CEO of Verb, each of whom are executive producers and minority owners of the Show The third business unit is Vanity Prescribed, a new telehealth initiative not unlike such companies as HIMS and HERS that are currently exploiting the rapid growth associated with the resale of the new weight-loss drugs. Vanity Prescribed leverages MARKET.lives social commerce technology which the Company intends to employ to disrupt the traditional healthcare model by utilizing social commerce capabilities to provide tailored healthcare solutions at affordable, fixed prices, without hidden fees, membership costs, or inflated pharmaceutical markups. On March 11, 2025, the Company announced the launch of GoodGirlRx.com, a partnership under Vanity Prescribed with Savannah Chrisley, a well-known lifestyle personality with millions of social media followers and an advocate for health and wellness. Through GoodGirlRx.com, customers will have access to convenient, no-hassle telehealth services and pharmaceuticals, including the new weight-loss drugs, that offer fixed pricing regardless of dosage, breaking away from the industrys traditional model of excessive pricing and pharmaceutical gatekeeping. Through GoodGirlRx.com customers will be able to obtain virtual doctor visits with licensed physicians who can prescribe the weight loss drugs and other pharmaceuticals available to purchase on the site for those that qualify. Subscription pricing is also available through the site. As of December 31, 2024, the Company had cash and restricted cash of $8,495 and highly liquid investments of $4,913. 2 Revenue Generation A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: MARKET.live revenue is derived from contract-based recurring fee revenue services that include, among other things, a full suite of social commerce services for consumer brands and merchants seeking to adopt or expand online commerce and social selling capabilities, including end-to-end creative services such as content creation and full remote and in-studio production services, host/influencer/affiliate casting and management, TikTok Shop and other social media platform online store creation, set-up and establishment, maintenance and enhancements. Clients are referred to us through our existing partnership with TikTok Shop and other social media channels, as well as from several brand agencies with whom we maintain affiliate relationships. GO FUND YOURSELF Show derives revenue from fees we charge to issuers to appear on the show and for marketing, ad, and content creation and distribution services. Appearance fees are based on service packages that range from $15,000 to $60,000 per issuer. For those issuers that sell products during each airing of the show through our platform, we charge a fee of up to 25% of the gross sales revenue for all products sold. Vanity Prescribed/GoodGirlRx.com derives revenue from the sale of prescription and non-prescription pharmaceutical and health-care products, both through long-term subscriptions and non-prescription programs. Intellectual Property Our policy is to protect our technology through, among other things, a combination of patents, trade secrets and copyrights. We primarily rely upon trade secrets and copyrighted proprietary software, code, and know-how to protect our interactive video technology platform and associated applications. We have taken security measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, to the extent possible. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not prove to be adequate and our competitors may independently develop technology or products that are similar to ours or that compete with ours. Trade secret and copyright laws afford only limited protection for our technology and products. The laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may also design around our proprietary rights, which may render our protected technology and products less valuable, if the design around is favorably received in the marketplace. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties. Despite our precautions, we cannot assure you that our technology platform and products do not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement, invalidity, misappropriation, or other claims. Dependence on Key Customers Based on our current business and anticipated future activities as described in this Annual Report, we have one customer that represents 26% of our 2024 revenue. 3 Government Regulation Our software and services are subject to certain legal, regulatory and other requirements. These laws are complex and evolving. Various U.S. federal and state laws govern many of our business activities, including, without limitation, the processing of payments and handling of consumer information. Despite our significant efforts to comply with all applicable requirements, there can be no guarantee that our efforts will be sufficient or that existing laws, rules or other requirements will not be interpreted, revised, augmented or rewritten in a way that adversely affects our regulated business activities, which comprise a significant majority of our overall business. For additional information related to these risk-related issues, refer to the section entitled Risk Factors within this Annual Report. Human Capital Management As of March 19, 2025, we had 18 full-time statutory employees, one part-time employee, and five independent contractors. We engage independent contractors on an as-needed basis to provide specific expertise in areas of software design, development and coding, content creation, audio and video editing, video production services, and other business functions, including marketing and accounting. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have had no labor-related work stoppages and believe our relationship with our employees, both full-time and part-time, consultants, and independent contractors, is satisfactory. We believe our people are at the heart of our success and our customers success. We endeavor to not only attract and retain talented employees, but also to provide a challenging and rewarding environment to motivate and develop our valuable human capital. We look to our talented employees to lead and foster various initiatives that support our company culture including those related to diversity, equity and inclusion. In addition, we rely heavily on our talented team to execute our growth plans and achieve our long-term strategic objectives. We provide competitive compensation and benefits for our employees. Our compensation packages may include base salary, commission or annual performance-based bonuses, and share-based compensation. We also offer general employee medical, dental, and vision insurance, health savings and flexible spending accounts, mental health resources, paid time off, paid family leave, life and disability insurance, and a 401(k) plan. These programs and our overall compensation packages seek to attract and retain talented employees. Our Historical Background Verb Technology Company, Inc. was incorporated in 2012 in the state of Nevada. On April 12, 2019, we acquired Sound Concepts Inc. pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger. As a result of the merger, Sound Concepts merged with and into our wholly owned subsidiary, NF Acquisition Company, LLC. Upon completion of the merger, NF Acquisition Company, LLC changed its name to Verb Direct, LLC (Verb Direct). On September 4, 2020, Verb Acquisition Co., LLC (Verb Acquisition), a subsidiary of Verb Technology, entered into a membership interest purchase agreement with Ascend Certification, LLC, dba SoloFire. On October 18, 2021, we established verbMarketplace, LLC (Market LLC), a Nevada limited liability company. Market LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary established for our MARKET.live platform. On June 13, 2023, the Company disposed of all of its operating SaaS assets of Verb Direct and Verb Acquisition, (referred to collectively as the SaaS Assets) pursuant to an asset purchase agreement in consideration of the sum of $6.5 million, $4.75 million of which was paid in cash by the buyer at the closing of the transaction. An additional payment in the aggregate of $0.75 million will be paid by the buyer if certain profitability and revenue targets are met during the second year following the closing date as set forth more particularly in the asset purchase agreement. A similar payment would have been due and payable to the Company after the first year following the closing if the buyer had met certain profitability and revenue targets specified in the asset purchase agreement, which it failed to meet. The sale of the SaaS Assets was undertaken to allow the Company to focus its resources on its burgeoning MARKET.live business unit which it expects over time will create greater shareholder value. On November 15, 2024, the Company formed Go Fund Yourself Show LLC (Go Fund Yourself), a Nevada limited liability company. Go Fund Yourself is a subsidiary of the Company established for the Go Fund Yourself show. Our common stock trades on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol VERB. Our Internet website address is https://www.verb.tech. 4 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our short and long-term success is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. As a result, investing in the Companys common stock involves substantial risk. The Companys stockholders should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, as well as the other information we file with the SEC from time to time. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the SEC also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or contemplated by these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks we face described below, as well as other variables that could affect our operating results. Past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred significant net losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitable operations. We have incurred recurring losses since our inception in 2012. Our net loss was $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, and $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. To date, we have funded our operations through cash collected from sales of our products and services, offerings of our equity securities, and debt financing. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to the design, development and commercialization of our products, the scaling of our technology and infrastructure, and our marketing and sales efforts. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown events. To implement our business strategy and achieve consistent profitability, we need to, among other things, continue to reduce operating expenses, increase sales of our products and the gross profit associated with those sales, continue to reduce research and development expenses, and increase our marketing and sales efforts to drive an increase in the number of customers and clients utilizing our services. These expenditures may make it more difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. In addition, our efforts to grow our business may be more expensive than we expect, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset operating expenses. If we are forced to reduce our expenses beyond our planned cost reduction initiatives, our growth strategy could be compromised. To offset our anticipated operating expenses, we will need to generate and sustain significant revenue levels in future periods in order to become profitable, and even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve sustainable operating profits as we continue to reduce operating expenses, further develop our marketing efforts, and otherwise implement our growth initiatives. Any failure to achieve and maintain profitability would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan, our results and operations, and our financial condition, and could cause the value of our common stock, to decline, resulting in a significant or complete loss of your investment. 5 Public health threats, natural disasters and other events beyond our control, have had and may continue to have a significant negative impact on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Public health threats and other highly communicable diseases and outbreaks could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our customers, suppliers, distributors and other business partners, as well as the healthcare system in general. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers and could decrease demand for our services. Additionally, our liquidity could be negatively impacted if these conditions continue for a significant period of time and we may be required to pursue additional sources of financing to obtain working capital, maintain appropriate inventory levels, and meet our financial obligations. Capital and credit markets have been disrupted by the crisis and our ability to obtain any required financing is not guaranteed and largely dependent upon evolving market conditions and other factors. Depending on the continued impact of the crisis, further actions may be required to improve our cash position and capital structure. The extent to which public health threats, natural disasters or catastrophic events, ultimately impacts our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. 6 Our ability to grow and compete in the future will be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available to us or not available on terms favorable to us. We have limited capital resources. We have financed our operations entirely through equity investments by founders and other investors and the incurrence of debt, and we expect to continue to finance our operations in the same manner in the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue our normal and planned operations, to grow our business, and to compete in our industry will depend on the availability of adequate capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funding from those or other sources when or in the amounts needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, it would result in dilution to our then-existing stockholders, which could be significant depending on the price at which we may be able to sell our securities. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of indebtedness, we would likely become subject to further covenants restricting our business activities, and holders of debt instruments may have rights and privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. In addition, servicing the interest and principal repayment obligations under debt facilities could divert funds that would otherwise be available to support development of new programs and marketing to current and potential new clients. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate development of new programs or future marketing efforts, or reduce or discontinue our operations. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition, and prospects. Our indebtedness, and the agreements governing such indebtedness, subject us to required debt service payments, as well as financial restrictions and operating covenants, any of which may reduce our financial flexibility and affect our ability to operate our business. From time to time, we have financed our liquidity needs in part from borrowings made under various credit agreements. As of December 31, 2024, the aggregate outstanding balance of our note payable was $0.1 million. The note payable balance, including accrued interest, was fully repaid on March 7, 2025. The agreements underlying these transactions contain certain debt service requirements. Our failure to comply with obligations under these agreements, or inability to make required debt service payments, could result in an event of default under the agreements. A default, if not cured or waived, could permit a lender to accelerate payment of the loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Further, if our debt is accelerated, we cannot be certain that funds will be available to pay the debt or that we will have the ability to refinance the debt on terms satisfactory to us or at all. If we are unable to repay or refinance the accelerated debt, we could become insolvent and seek to file for bankruptcy protection, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our future level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: the covenants contained in future agreements governing outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, refinance debt, dispose of assets, and make certain investments; future debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; 7 a future high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; a significant future level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; and a future high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, debt service requirements, acquisitions, or other purposes. For additional information refer to the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to maintain and expand our customer base and our ability to convince our customers to increase the use of our services and/or platform. If we are unable to expand our customer base and/or the use of our services and/or platform by our customers declines, our business will be harmed. Our ability to expand and generate revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with existing customers and convince them to increase their use of our platform. If our customers do not increase their use of our platform, then our revenue may not grow and our results of operations may be harmed. It is difficult to predict customers usage levels accurately and the loss of customers or reductions in their usage levels may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If a significant number of customers cease using, or reduce their usage of, our platform, then we may be required to spend significantly more on sales and marketing than we currently plan to spend in order to maintain or increase revenue. These additional expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Most of our customers do not have long-term contractual financial commitments to us and, therefore, most of our customers could reduce or cease their use of our platform at any time without penalty or termination charges. There is a risk of dependence on one or a group of customers. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, one customer accounted for 26.0% of our revenues. If we are unable to retain our current customers or finding new major customers or gain major new engagements from existing customers to replace any nonrecurring contracts, there may be material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations. This potential dependency could threaten the sustainability of our growth and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations if we are unable to retain such major contracts or replace them with similarly major contracts on a regular basis. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for livestream shopping platforms is intensely competitive and rapidly changing, barriers to entry are relatively low, and many of our competitors, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources, than we do. In addition, many of our potential competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements, competitive pressures, or challenges within the financial markets. Furthermore, because of these advantages, even if our products and services are more effective than the products and services that our competitors offer, potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our products and services. If we do not compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to increase the number of our strategic relationships or grow the revenues received from our current strategic relationships. We have entered into certain strategic relationships with other individuals and enterprises and are actively seeking additional strategic relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that these strategic relationships will result in material revenues for us or that we will be able to generate any other meaningful strategic relationships. If we are not able to increase the number of our strategic relationships or grow the revenues received from our current strategic relationships, our operating results could be harmed. 8 We may not be able to develop enhancements and new features to our existing service or acceptable new services that keep pace with technological developments. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our platform that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business will be harmed. The success of enhancements, new features, and services depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of the feature or edition. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our revenue growth or harm our reputation. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in timely bringing them to market at a competitive price or at all. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. Any failure of our service to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our service, result in customer dissatisfaction, and harm our business. Our ability to deliver our services is dependent on third party Internet providers. The Internets infrastructure is comprised of many different networks and services that, by design, are highly fragmented and distributed. This infrastructure is run by a series of independent, third-party organizations that work together to provide the infrastructure and supporting services of the Internet under the governance of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names (ICANN) and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), which is now related to ICANN. The Internet has experienced, and will continue to experience, a variety of outages and other delays due to damages to portions of its infrastructure, denial-of-service attacks, or related cyber incidents. These scenarios are not under our control and could reduce the availability of the Internet to us or our customers for delivery of our services. Any resulting interruptions in our services or the ability of our customers to access our services could result in a loss of potential or existing customers and harm our business. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our customers, including, credit card and payment information, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. In addition, we are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of data. Some jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data and our agreements with certain customers require us to notify them in the event of a security incident. Evolving regulations regarding personal data and personal information, including the General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), and the recently passed California Privacy Rights Act, which amends the CCPA and has many provisions that became effective on January 1, 2023, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business. Such laws and regulations require or may require us or our customers to implement privacy and security policies, permit consumers to access, correct or delete personal information stored or maintained by us or our customers, inform individuals of security incidents that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain consent to use personal information for specified purposes. We believe that we take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect, use, store, and disclose, and we take steps to strengthen our security protocols and infrastructure, however, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. We also could be negatively impacted by software bugs or other technical malfunctions, as well as employee error or malfeasance. Advanced cyber-attacks can be multi-staged, unfold over time, and utilize a range of attack vectors with military-grade cyber weapons and proven techniques, such as spear phishing and social engineering, leaving organizations and users at high risk of being compromised. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, a disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of confidence in our business, early termination of our contracts and other business losses, indemnification of our customers, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, financial penalties, litigation, regulatory investigations and other significant liabilities, any of which could materially harm our business any of which could adversely affect our business, revenues, and competitive position. 9 Our success depends, in part, on the capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, as well as our ability to adapt and expand our infrastructure. The capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, including the delayed provision of services or implementation of new service offerings, and the diversion of development resources. We rely on third parties for various aspects of our hardware and software infrastructure. Third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruption and/or failure of any of these systems could disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, thus adversely impacting our ability to provide our products and services, retain our current users, and attract new users. In addition, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, our customer and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, or otherwise, could be compromised, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses, any of which could substantially harm our business and our results of operations. We have integrated, and may continue to integrate in the future, AI in certain tools and features available on our platform. AI technology presents various operational, compliance, and reputational risks and if any such risks were to materialize, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have integrated artificial intelligence (AI) technologies in many of our tools and features available on our website. We may continue to integrate AI technologies in new product or service offerings. Given that AI is a rapidly developing technology that is in its early stages of business use, it presents a number of operational, compliance and reputational risks. AI algorithms are currently known to sometimes produce unexpected results and behave in unpredictable ways (e.g., hallucinatory behavior) that can generate irrelevant, nonsensical, fictitious, deficient, offensive or factually incorrect content and results, which, if incorporated into our platform, may result in reputational harm to us and be damaging to our brand. Additionally, content, analyses or recommendations that are based on AI might be found to be biased, discriminatory or harmful. Data sets from which Large Language Models learn are at risk of poisoning or manipulation by bad actors, resulting in offensive or undesired output. Similarly, the data set could contain copyrighted material resulting in infringing output. AI output might present ethical concerns or violate current and future laws and regulations. We expect that there will continue to be new laws or regulations concerning the use of AI technology, which might be burdensome for us to comply with and may limit our ability to offer or enhance our existing tools and features or new offerings based on AI technology. Further, the use of AI technology involves complexities and requires specialized expertise. We may not be able to attract and retain top talent to support our AI technology initiatives. If any of the operational, compliance or reputational risks were to materialize, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be subject to risks associated with artificial intelligence and machine learning technology. Recent technological advances in AI and machine learning technology may pose risks to us. Our use of AI could give rise to legal or regulatory action, create liabilities, or materially harm our business. While we aim to develop and use AI and machine learning technology responsibly and attempt to mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. Further, as the technology is rapidly evolving, costs and obligations could be imposed on us to comply with new regulations. We also could be exposed to the risks of machine learning technology if third-party service providers or any counterparties, whether or not known to us, also use machine learning technology in their business activities. We will not be in a position to control the use of such technology in third-party products or services. Use by third-party service providers could give rise to issues pertaining to data privacy, data protection, and intellectual property considerations. We are dependent on third parties to, among other things, maintain our servers, provide the bandwidth necessary to transmit content, and utilize the content derived therefrom for the potential generation of revenues. We depend on third-party service providers, suppliers, and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software, and operational support necessary to provide some of our products and services. Some of these third parties do not have a long operating history or may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire in the future. If demand exceeds these vendors capacity, or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some products and services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our users. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract users, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results, and financial condition. We may not be able to find suitable software developers at an acceptable cost or at all. We currently rely on certain key suppliers and vendors in the coding and maintenance of our software. We will continue to require such expertise in the future. Due to the current demand for skilled software developers, we run the risk of not being able to find or retain suitable and qualified personnel at an acceptable price, or at all. These risks may be greater now than in the past due to current general labor shortages in the United States. Without these developers, we may not be able to further develop and maintain our software, which is the most important aspect of our business development. The success of our business is highly correlated to general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services is highly correlated with general economic conditions, as a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically declines during times of economic instability. Declines in economic conditions in the United States or in other countries in which we operate and may operate in the future may adversely impact our financial results. Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, we or our industry may have increased excess capacity as a result. An increase in excess capacity may result in declines in prices for our products and services. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment, and other factors. The inability to grow or maintain our business would adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations, and thereby an investment in our common stock. 10 Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our products, weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue, and infringement claims asserted against us or by us, could have a material adverse effect. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, which includes patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and domain names, as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We have registered domain names and trademarks in the United States and have pursued additional registrations both in and outside the United States. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, domain name and patent protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights. Notwithstanding our efforts, third parties may independently develop technology that is not covered by our patents, or that is similar to, or competes with, our technology. In addition, our intellectual property may be infringed or misappropriated by third parties, particularly in foreign countries where the laws and governmental authorities may not protect our proprietary rights as effectively as those in the United States. We may be required to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology. The laws in the United States and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could adversely affect us and our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering services that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our products. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination that is unfavorable to us. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and thus we may not be able to stop its competitors from infringing upon our intellectual property rights. 11 Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could materially adversely affect us. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers and could decrease demand for our services. Our future success depends on our key executive officers and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. Our future success largely depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of our board of directors, and President, Mr. Rory J. Cutaia. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Additionally, we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new executive officers. If any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. Finally, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Because of these factors, the loss of the services of any of these key persons could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and thereby an investment in our stock. Our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel will also be critical to our success because we will need to hire and retain additional personnel as our business grows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel. We face significant competition for skilled personnel in our industries. This competition may make it more difficult and expensive to attract, hire, and retain qualified managers and employees. Because of these factors, we may not be able to effectively manage or grow our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition or business. As a result, the value of your investment could be significantly reduced or completely lost. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities If we are not able to comply with the applicable continued listing requirements or standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, The NASDAQ Capital Market could delist and adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol VERB. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, unable to comply with certain of the listing standards that we are required to meet to maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock will be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price and a requirement that we maintain stockholders equity of at least $2,500,000. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain continued compliance with the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we were unable to meet these requirements, we would receive a delisting notice from the Nasdaq Capital Market for failure to comply with one or more of the continued listing requirements. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the OTC Markets or in the pink sheets. Such a downgrading in our listing market may limit our ability to make a market in our common stock and which may impact purchases or sales of our securities. 12 Raising additional capital, including through future sales and issuances of our common stock, warrants or the exercise of rights to purchase common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plan could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders, could cause our share price to fall and could restrict our operations. We expect we will need significant additional capital in the future to continue our planned operations, including any potential acquisitions, hiring new personnel and continuing activities as an operating public company. To the extent we seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings and debt financings, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders may be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt and receivables financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders ownership. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. A failure to obtain adequate funds may cause us to curtail certain operational activities, including sales and marketing, in order to reduce costs and sustain the business, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, we have granted options to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans and have registered 16,000,000 shares of common stock underlying options and shares granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. Sales of shares issued upon exercise of options granted under our equity compensation plans may result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, which could cause our price of our common stock to fall. Our issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the market value of our common stock, dilute the voting power of common stockholders and delay or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors have the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. Further, the issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to substantial volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including; volatility in the trading markets generally and in our particular market segment; limited trading of our common stock; 13 actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections, or our failure to meet those projections; announcements regarding our business or the business of our customers or competitors; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations, or principles; actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our offerings, or third-party proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; any major change in our board of directors or management; sales of shares of our common stock by us or by our stockholders; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) or responses to these events. Statements of, or changes in, opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole, as well as our particular market segment, has from time-to-time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may affect the market price for the securities of many companies, and which often have appeared unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Any of these factors could negatively affect our stockholders ability to sell their shares of common stock at the time and price they desire. A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital, which could adversely impact our ability to continue operations. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. We may attempt to acquire a significant portion of the funds we need in order to conduct our planned operations through the sale of equity securities; thus, a decline in the price of our common stock could be detrimental to our liquidity and our operations because the decline may adversely affect investors desire to invest in our securities. If we are unable to raise the funds we require for all of our planned operations, we may be forced to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may suffer a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products or services and continue our current operations. As a result, our business may suffer, and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. We also might not be able to meet our financial obligations if we cannot raise enough funds through the sale of our common stock and we may be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. 14 Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the near future, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless and until they sell them. We intend to retain a significant portion of any future earnings to finance the development, operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. The declaration, payment, and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as our board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and, if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Unless our board of directors determines to pay dividends, our stockholders will be required to look to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. There can be no assurance that this appreciation will occur. If our common stock trades at a price less than $5.00 it would be categorized as a penny stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares of common stock due to suitability requirements. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The term accredited investor refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customers account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customers confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchasers written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. has adopted sales practice requirements that historically may have limited a stockholders ability to buy and sell our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock. In addition to the penny stock rules described above, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has adopted rules that require that, in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customers financial status, tax status, investment objectives, and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. Thus, the FINRA requirements historically has made it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which could limit your ability to buy and sell our common stock, have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, and thereby depress our price per share of common stock. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers, and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights for our obligations to our directors, officers, and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers, and employees. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions permitting us to eliminate the personal liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for damages for the breach of a fiduciary duty as a director or officer to the extent provided by Nevada law. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers to provide such indemnification rights. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under any future employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in us incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and the resulting costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our stockholders. 15 Anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of Nevada state law hinder a potential takeover of us. Nevada has a business combination law that prohibits certain business combinations between Nevada corporations and interested stockholders for three years after an interested stockholder first becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporations board of directors approves the combination in advance. For purposes of Nevada law, an interested stockholder is any person who is (i) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (ii) an affiliate or associate of the corporation and at any time within the three previous years was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of the corporation. The definition of the term business combination is sufficiently broad to cover virtually any kind of transaction that would allow a potential acquirer to use the corporations assets to finance the acquisition or otherwise to benefit its own interests rather than the interests of the corporation and its other stockholders. The potential effect of Nevadas business combination law is to discourage parties interested in taking control of us from doing so if these parties cannot obtain the approval of our board of directors. Both of these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our bylaws contain an exclusive forum provision, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the state and federal courts in the State of Nevada shall be the exclusive forum for any litigation relating to our internal affairs, including, without limitation: (a) any derivative action brought on behalf of us, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of fiduciary duty to us or our stockholders by any current or former officer, director, employee, or agent of us, or (c) any action against us or any current or former officer, director, employee, or agent of us arising pursuant to any provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the articles of incorporation, or the bylaws. For the avoidance of doubt, the exclusive forum provision described above does not apply to any claims arising under the Securities Act or Exchange Act. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, and Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. The choice of forum provision in our bylaws may limit our stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, employees and agents even though an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders. The applicable courts may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder considering an action may be located or would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. With respect to the provision making the state and federal courts in the State of Nevada the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions, stockholders who do bring a claim in the state and federal courts in the State of Nevada could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Nevada. Finally, if a court were to find this provision of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect our business. As a public company, we have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls, and must maintain internal controls over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The process of designing, implementing and maintaining effective internal controls is a continuous effort that require us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments. In this regard, we continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants, implement a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing whether such controls are functioning as documented, and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain appropriate disclose controls or internal